GOVERNANCE BOARD IN ACTION Geographical analysis We place a great deal of importance on maintaining an of investors active dialogue with our investor base around the world.
We plan to increase our interaction in 2012 by further exposing our operating management to investors.
Ren Mdori Finance Director HOW DO WE COMMUNICATE WITH Institutional investors OUR INVESTORS?
During the year there were regular presentations to, and meetings with, UK 35% We place a great deal of importance on North America 18% institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, maintaining an active dialogue with our Europe ex-UK 11% continental Europe, the US and Asia Pacic Asia 6% investor base around the world.
We plan Africa 28% to communicate the strategy and to increase our interaction in 2012 by Other 2% performance of Anglo American.
Executive Source: Anglo American Investor Relations further exposing our operating management directors, as well as key executives, including to investors.
business unit heads, host such presentations, The Company maintains an active including seminars for investors and analysts, Shareholder structure engagement with its key financial audiences, and one-on-one meetings.
Throughout the including institutional shareholders and year, executive management also presents sell side analysts as well as potential at industry conferences, which are mainly shareholders.
The Investor Relations organised by investment banks for their institutional investor base.
In late 2010, department manages the interaction with these audiences and regular presentations SirJohn Parker met with a number of key take place at the time of interim and final investors to discuss Strategy, The Board, results as well as during the rest of the year.
An active programme of communication with David Challen in his capacity as the SID works closely with Sir John to maintain his potential shareholders is also maintained.
understanding of the issues and concerns Board oversight of major shareholders.
David Challen Any significant concerns raised by a attended the Australian site visit dinner with shareholder in relation to the Company Institutions UK 30% analysts and investors.
The chairman, SID and its affairs are communicated to the Institutions ROW 50% and other non executive directors are also Employees 2% Board.
The Board is briefed on a regular available to shareholders to discuss any Retail investors 3% basis by the Investor Relations department Other 15% matter they wish to raise.
We look forward and analysts reports are circulated to the Source: Anglo American Investor Relations to increased communication with investors directors.
Feedback from meetings held following the recent introduction of the between executive management, or the Stewardship Code.
Investor Relations Department, and institutional shareholders is also The Companys website provides communicated to the Board.
the latest news and historical financial information, details about forthcoming events for shareholders and analysts, and other information on Anglo American.
For more information visit www.
com 96 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Governance Investor relations activities timeline 2011 The Company maintains an active dialogue with its 18 February February 18 February key financial audiences, Webcast Financial results including institutional shareholders and sell side w c 21 February 18 February Roadshow: CFO London, Analyst roundtable analysts as well as Johannesburg, Cape Town & Edinburgh potential shareholders.
w c 28 February March Broker conference: CEO US 09 March Broker salesforce presentation: CEO 10 March Broker conference: CFO London 2223 March Roadshow: CEO Europe April 29 April Roadshow: CFO Paris May 05 May Broker dinner: CFO w c 09 May Broker conference: CEO Europe 18 May Roadshow: Copper, CEO London 24 May Broker salesforce presentation: CEO 2324 May June Roadshow: CEO London 09 June Broker conference: CFO Paris 14 June Informal gathering: Board & GMC July 29 July 29 July Webcast Financial results w c 01 August August 29 July Roadshow: CFO London Analyst roundtable w c 08 August Roadshow: CFO Johannesburg & Cape Town 08 September September Roadshow: CEO Johannesburg 12 September 12 September Roadshow: CFO US Roadshow: CEO London w c 03 October 07 October October Roadshow: CFO US East Coast Roadshow: CFO Europe w c 24 October Australia site visit: Analyst Investor 02 November 04 November November Broker conference: CEO London Analyst Roundtable 10 November w c 07 November Teleconference: CEO Analyst and Roadshow: CEO US Investor brieng 15 November w c 14 November Broker conference: CEO London Roadshow: CFO London December w c 05 December Roadshow: CFO Johannesburg & Cape Town 13 December Informal gathering: Chairman & GMC 16 December Roadshow: CFO Paris Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 97 GOVERNANCE BOARD IN ACTION WHAT ARE THE COMMITTEES OF THE SAFETY & SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE BOARD AND WHAT DO THEY DO?
To be successful, sustainability Subject to those matters reserved for its considerations need to be integral decision, the Board delegates certain to our thinking in all areas of our responsibilities to a number of standing business, such as in the design and committees the Safety and Sustainable evaluation of our projects, mine Development, Remuneration, Nomination planning and decommissioning, and and Audit Committees.
The terms of the ways in which capital is allocated reference for each of these committees to fund our projects.
and a schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision are published on the Peter Woicke Chairman, Safety and Companys website.
Sustainable Development Committee The Committees Terms of Reference may be found on the Companys website, visit Composition led by the Group chief executive, www.
com Peter Woicke chairman Cynthia Carroll.
Safety remains a critical focus area and receives Cynthia Carroll significant attention at each Sir John Parker meeting.
Key themes such as occupational health, HIV and Ray ORourke AIDS, energy, climate change, Mamphela Ramphele water, social performance and SD within our supply chain were Jack Thompson reviewed at each meeting.
Other Brian Beamish topics, such as gender diversity, received periodic focus.
David Weston What did the Committee Roles and responsibilities discuss in 2011?
Reviewing the development A detailed account of every of framework policies and fatal incident that occurred guidelines for the management in the period under review of sustainable development by the relevant BU CEO, SD issues including safety, along with the related health and environment.
Reviewing the performance Oversight of risk, including of the Company and the major risks such as methane The S&SD Committees remit spans progressive implementation explosion: technical risks such across the environmental, social and of its safety and sustainable as waste containment facilities workplace risks and opportunities development S&SD policies.
and shaft infrastructure: an faced by Anglo American.
Increasingly, Receiving reports covering annual review of legal risk we seek out investments to effect matters relating to material across the Group: and positive change in more than one of S&SD risks and liabilities.
significant outcomes of these areas.
For example, a new external assurance work.
enterprise development fund in Monitoring key indicators and South Africa has been established learning on incidents and, Presentations by BU CEOs to help create jobs while delivering where appropriate, ensuring on arotational basis on environmental benets.
The Zimele they are communicated that respective business Green Fund will target investment throughout the Group.
opportunities that mitigate carbon Considering material Presentations by NGOs emissions, reduce energy and water national and international on issues important to the consumption, and improve waste and regulatory and technical business.
Created in developments in the elds the Committee received November 2011, the Fund is already of S&SD management.
presentations by the Institute reviewing potential investments to for Human Rights on the links assess their commercial and Besides the regular S&SD between business, human technical viability and degree of Committee members, the rights and water.
alignment with Anglo Americans meetings were well attended by environmental objectives, such as other Group directors and Reports on projects of the retrotting of low income business unit BU CEOs.
At each strategic interest such as the government provided housing in meeting the Committee received value of S&SD.
South Africa with solar water heaters.
a functional performance review 98 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee seeks to The Nomination Committees ensure that directors who deliver aim is to build on the existing significant value for the Companys diversity of the board by shareholders are appropriately identifying and nominating remunerated and that our world suitably qualied candidates.
Sir John Parker Chairman, Sir Philip Hampton Chairman, Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Composition previously discussed.
Composition Ensuring that the Human In compliance with the Code, amendments to the LTIP with Compliant with the Code: Resources function of the the Committee comprises only external investors.
The new Group regularly reviews Sir John Parker chairman independent non executive LTIP included a clawback and updates the succession directors: provision should there be a David Challen plans of directors and material misstatement of the senior managers.
Sir Philip Hampton chairman Sir CK Chow Companys results during the Diversity policy David Challen performance period Mamphela Ramphele To increase the representation Sir CK Chow discussed and set the asset Peter Woicke of women on the Board optimisation and supply chain excluding the chairman from Jack Thompson Roles and responsibilities targets for the 2011 LTIP award 20% to about 30% by 2013.
Setting guidelines with the Peter Woicke approved amendments to the approval of the Board for the What did the Committee Roles and responsibilities Bonus Share Plan rules to types of skills, experience discuss in 2011?
Establishing and developing include clawback provisions and diversity being sought Following extensive research the Groups general policy when making a search for into potential candidates, reviewed executive directors on executive and senior new directors and, with Phuthuma Nhleko was shareholdings in the Company management remuneration.
the assistance of external appointed in March 2011. prior to 2011 share awards consultants, identifying and Determining specic being made.
The Committee maintained reviewing in detail each remuneration packages a continuing review of board In April 2011, the Committee: potential candidate available for the chairman and succession needs.
During 2011 discussed investor feedback on in the market.
the Committee focused in executive remuneration prior to then agrees a long list particular on developing plans Designing the Companys the vote on the Directors of candidates for each to ensure the achievement share incentive schemes.
directorship and, following of the Companys diversity further discussion and What did the Committee In December 2011, the policy above.
research, decides upon discuss in 2011?
Committee: a shortlist of candidates In addition to the meetings In February 2011, the reviewed directors salaries, for interview.
Shortlisted of the Committee, the Committee: taking into account the general candidates are each chairman and NEDs as a reviewed executive director salary review for the broader interviewed by the group met twice with the chief personal KPIs for 2011 and employee population Committee members who executive and the director of Company financial targets considered GMC and Exco will then convene to discuss HR and corporate affairs for an to ensure alignment with remuneration and performance their impressions and in depth discussion on human Company strategy contracts for 2012 conclusions, culminating in a resources issues.
In February, discussed with the recommendation to the Board.
the chairman and NEDs reviewed its Terms Company chairman and received and discussed a of Reference.
Making recommendations as chief executive respectively, comprehensive presentation to the composition of the Board the chief executives and General on the Companys HR strategy, and its Committees and the finance directors performance The Committee regularly with a particular focus on long balance between executive in 2010 to adjudicate on reviews developments in term talent needs, and and non executive directors bonus outcomes corporate governance and in June there was a detailed NEDs, with the aim of executive pay in all meetings.
review of succession plans for discussed the new Long Term cultivating a board with the the directors and the other Incentive Plan LTIP which appropriate mix of skills, roles on the Companys was subsequently approved by experience, independence and Executive Committee.
The Committee chairman had Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 99 GOVERNANCE BOARD IN ACTION AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee plays a pivotal role in ensuring high standards of corporate governance and provides assurance to the Board on its reports to shareholders.
David Challen Chairman, Audit Committee Composition Approving the internal At the November 2011 meeting Compliant with the Code and audit plan and reviewing the Committee: comprises only independent regular reports from the received a paper on the likely non executive directors: head of internal audit on accounting issues for the 2011 effectiveness of the internal year end David Challen chairman control system.
approved the external auditors Sir Philip Hampton Receiving reports from terms of engagement, scope of Phuthuma Nhleko management on the key risks work, the process for the of the Group and management annual audit and the applicable Ray ORourke of those risks.
levels of materiality Roles and responsibilities What did the Audit approved the internal audit plan Monitoring the integrity Committee discuss in 2011?
for 2012 of the annual and interim At the February 2011 meeting, financial statements, the received a paper on fraud the 2010 year end results and accompanying reports to risk and how this is controlled press release were reviewed and shareholders and corporate in the Company the external auditors presented governance statements.
the findings of their work.
The reviewed the Audit Making recommendations Committee also reviewed the Committees Terms to the Board concerning Ore Reserves and Mineral of Reference the adoption of the annual Resources estimates report and received a paper on progress and interim financial the internal audit report for 2010. with the transformation agenda statements.
At the July 2011 meeting the in South Africa.
Overseeing the Groups Committee: relations with the external reviewed the interim results auditors.
and press announcement Making recommendations to received a report on the the Board on the appointment, Companys measures to retention and removal of the mitigate the risk of bribery external auditors.
and assessed the key risks of bribery occurring in each Reviewing and monitoring of the business units the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and reviewed the risk prole risk management systems of each business unit and including reviewing the process the Company as a whole for identifying, assessing and reviewed a paper reporting all key risks.
on the strategy for Approving the terms of purchasing insurance.
reference and plans of the internal audit function.
100 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Governance GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Any partner designated as a key audit What will the Audit Committee do AUDIT COMMITTEE partner of Anglo American shall not be in 2012?
employed by Anglo American in a key During 2012 the Audit Committee will REPORT management position unless a period of continue its role in monitoring the integrity at least two years has elapsed since the of the financial statements and reviewing HOW DO WE ENSURE INDEPENDENCE conclusion of the last relevant audit.
the effectiveness of the Companys internal OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS?
control and risk management systems.
An The external auditors are required to assess item of key interest to the Audit Committee Anglo Americans policy on auditors periodically, in their professional judgement, will be to understand how the risk and audit independence, is consistent with the whether they are independent of the Group.
ethical standards published by the Audit processes operate in fide Beers and how The Audit Committee ensures that the these will be integrated into Anglo American Practices Board.
scope of the auditors work is sufficient and at the appropriate time.
A key factor that may impair auditors that the auditors are fairly remunerated.
How is the appointment of the external independence is a lack of control over non audit services provided by the external The Audit Committee has primary auditors considered?
responsibility for making recommendations The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the auditors.
In essence, the external auditors to the Board on the appointment, Groups external auditors incumbents since independence is deemed to be impaired if the auditors provide a service which: re-appointment and removal of the the listing in 1999 is kept under annual external auditors.
review, and if satisfactory, the Committee results in the auditors acting as a manager will recommend the re-appointment of the The Audit Committee has the authority or employee of the Group audit rm.
The appointment of Deloitte LLP to engage independent counsel and followed a detailed evaluation, at the time of puts the auditors in the role of advocate other advisers as they determine necessary for the Group: or the listing, of the predecessor audit rms and, in order to resolve issues on auditor rather than adopting a policy on tendering creates a mutuality of interest between independence.
frequency, an annual review of the the auditors and the Group.
An annual assessment is undertaken of effectiveness of the external audit is Anglo American addresses this issue the auditors performance, independence supplemented by a periodic, comprehensive and objectivity.
The results are shared with reassessment by the Committee.
The through three primary measures, namely: the Audit Committee.
Committees assessment of the external disclosure of the extent and nature of auditors performance and independence What did the Audit Committee non audit services underpins its recommendation to the conclude for 2011?
the prohibition of selected services Board to propose to shareholders the The Audit Committee has satisfied itself re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors this includes the undertaking of internal that the United Kingdom professional and until the conclusion of the AGM in 2013. audit services regulatory requirements for audit partner Resolutions to authorise the Board to rotation and employment of former prior approval by the Audit Committee re-appoint and determine their remuneration employees of the external auditors have chairman of non audit services where the will be proposed at the AGM on 19 April 2012. cost of the proposed assignment is likely been complied with.
What is the role of internal audit?
The Audit Committee considered information The Group has an internal audit department Anglo Americans policy on the provision pertaining to the balance between fees for that reports centrally with responsibility for audit and non audit work for the Group in of non audit services is regularly reviewed.
reviewing and providing assurance on the The denition of prohibited non audit 2011 and concluded that the nature and adequacy of the internal control environment extent of the non audit fees do not present a services corresponds with the European across all of Anglo Americans operations.
threat to the external auditors independence.
Commissions recommendations on auditors independence and with the Ethical Standards Details of fees paid are provided on page140.
The head of internal audit is responsible for reporting and following up on the findings of issued by the Audit Practices Board in the UK.
Furthermore, after reviewing a report from this internal audit work to local management the external auditors on all their relationships What other safeguards exist?
and the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
with Anglo American that might reasonably The external auditors are required to adhere Internal audit teams operated in all the to a rotation policy based on best practice have a bearing on the external auditors Groups principal divisions in the period under independence and the audit engagement and professional standards in the United review, reporting findings to local senior Kingdom.
The standard period for rotation partner and staffs objectivity, and the related management.
The internal audit functions safeguards and procedures, the Committee of the audit engagement partner is five mandate and annual audit coverage plans has concluded that the external auditors years and, for any key audit partner, seven were approved by the Audit Committee.
The audit engagement partner independence was not impaired.
The internal audit activities are performed was appointed in 2010 in accordance The Audit Committee held meetings with the with this requirement.
by teams of appropriate, qualied and external auditors without the presence of experienced employees, supplemented management on two occasions and the if necessary through the engagement of chairman of the Audit Committee held external practitioners upon specified and regular meetings with the audit engagement agreed terms.
A summary of audit results partner during the year.
and risk management information was presented to the Committee and Group Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 101 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT senior management at regular intervals Group and external audit reporting.
The BUSINESS INTEGRITY throughout the year.
The Groups head of Groups internal audit function has a formal During 2011 we continued internal audit reports to the Audit Committee collaboration process in place with the to implement the on the internal audit functions performance external auditors to ensure efficient coverage necessary procedures to against the agreed internal audit plan.
The Anglo American ensure that our Business internal audit function is responsible for During 2011, over 420 audit projects were Integrity policy operates providing independent assurance to effectively across the completed covering a variety of financial, executive management and the Board on operational, strategic and compliance related Group, and minimises the the effectiveness of the risk management risk of bribery as far as business processes across all business units process throughout the Group.
In addition, the internal audit possible.
We have now department responded to a number of Anglo American seeks to have a sound trained over 2,000 managers through management requests to investigate alleged system of internal control, based on the breaches of our business principles.
Groups policies and guidelines, in all material workshops in the business units and developed associates and joint ventures.
In those companies that are independently managed, supplementary online HOW IS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF as well as joint ventures, the directors who are training.
During the year INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK we developed enhanced represented on these organisations boards MANAGEMENT ASSESSED?
seek assurance that significant risks are guidelines regarding acceptance and provision The GMC, as mandated by the Board, being managed.
maintains a Group wide system of internal of gifts and entertainment Assurance regarding the accuracy and control to manage significant Group risks.
and provided specic reliability of Mineral Resources and Ore guidance on due This system, which has been operating Reserves disclosure is provided through a diligence procedures for throughout the year and to the date of this combination of internal technically proficient transactions where risks report, supports the Board in discharging its staff and independent third parties.
We responsibility for ensuring that the wide range conducted an assessment Whistleblowing programme of risks associated with the Groups diverse The Group has had in place for a number of of the risks of bribery and international operations is effectively years a whistleblowing programme in all its corruption in each of our managed in support of the creation and businesses taking into managed operations.
The programme, which preservation of shareholder wealth.
Please is monitored by the Audit Committee, is consideration external see pages 48 to 53 for further information and internal factors and designed to enable employees, customers, on the key risk factors Anglo American is suppliers, managers or other stakeholders, identied those areas exposed to.
Where appropriate, necessary on a condential basis, to raise concerns in where additional measures action has been or is being taken to remedy are necessary.
We applied cases where conduct is deemed to be any failings or weakness identied from contrary to our values.
It may include: a risk assessment process review of the effectiveness of the internal in individual transactions control system.
actions that may result in danger to the to identify necessary health and or safety of people or damage How is assurance obtained on the actions that mitigate risk to the environment of bribery in those internal control environment?
The system of internal control, which is unethical practice in accounting, internal arrangements.
embedded in all key operations, provides accounting controls, financial reporting and For 2012 we will continue reasonable rather than absolute assurance auditing matters to develop our procedures that the Groups business objectives will be and obtain assurance criminal offences, including money achieved within the risk tolerance levels laundering, fraud, bribery and corruption that they are being dened by the Board.
Regular management implemented as we expect reporting, which provides a balanced failure to comply with any legal obligation across the Group.
assessment of key risks and controls, is an miscarriage of justice important component of board assurance.
In addition, certain Board Committees focus any conduct contrary to the ethical on specic risks such as safety and capital principles embraced in our Business investment and provide assurance to the Principles or any similar policy Board.
The chief financial ofcers of the any other legal or ethical concern Groups business units provide conrmation, on a six monthly basis, that financial and concealment of any of the above.
accounting control frameworks have operated satisfactorily.
The Board also receives assurance from the Audit Committee, which derives its information, in part, from regular internal audit reports on risk and internal control throughout the 102 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Governance The programme makes available a selection acentral team responsible for ensuring the year, and up to the date of approval of of telephonic, email, web based and surface arobust process is implemented for risk the Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating mail communication channels to any person management.
During 2011, over 149 and managing the significant risks faced in the world who has information about separate risk assessment workshops were by the Group.
This includes social, unethical practice in Anglo American and conducted reviewing: environmental and ethical risks as highlighted its managed operations.
The multilingual in the Disclosure Guidelines on Socially risk in business unit strategies communication facilities are operated by Responsible Investment issued by the independent service providers who remove risks to achieving mine plans Association of British Insurers.
A detailed all indications from information received as to report on social, environmental and ethical risks in capital projects the identity of the callers before submission issues is included in the Companys to designated persons in the Group.
risks to key change programmes.
During 2011, 299 reports were received via The results of these risk assessments were Accountability and audit the global Speakup facility, covering a broad reported to senior management and the The Board is required to present a spectrum of concerns, including: Audit Committee.
The process of risk balanced and understandable assessment management is designed to identify internal of Anglo Americans financial position and ethical and external threats to the business and to prospects.
Such assessment is provided in criminal assist management in prioritising their the Chairmans and Chief Executives response to those risks.
Continuous statements and the Operating and financial supplier relationships monitoring of risk and control processes, review of this Annual Report.
The respective health and safety across headline risk areas and other business responsibilities of the directors and external specic risk areas, provides the basis for auditors are set out on pages 122, 124 and human resource type issues.
As referred to in the Directors report, regular and exception reporting Reports received were kept strictly to business management and boards, ExCo, the directors have expressed their view condential and were referred to appropriate the Audit Committee and the Board.
that Anglo Americans business is a line managers within the Group for resolution.
Some of the headline risk areas, which Where appropriate, action was taken to have been elaborated upon in the financial address the issues raised.
The reports are review, set out on pages 48 to 53, are: analysed and monitored to ensure the process is effective.
commodity price risk How does risk management work at political risk Anglo American?
counterparty risk The Boards policy on risk management encompasses all significant business risks infrastructure and operational to the Group, including: performance risks.
financial risk The risk assessment and reporting criteria are designed to provide the Board with a operational, including safety, technical, consistent, Group wide perspective of the fraud and corruption risk key risks.
The reports to the Board, which are compliance risk submitted at least every six months, include an assessment of the likelihood and impact of which could undermine the achievement risks materialising, as well as risk mitigation of business objectives.
This system of risk management is In conducting its annual review of the designed so that the different businesses effectiveness of risk management, the Board are able to tailor and adapt their risk considers the key findings from the ongoing management processes to suit their specic monitoring and reporting processes, circumstances.
This exible approach has management assertions and independent the commitment of the Groups senior assurance reports.
The Board also takes management.
There is clear accountability account of material changes and trends in the for risk management, which is a key risk prole and considers whether the control performance area of line managers through system, including reporting, adequately the Group.
The requisite risk and control supports the Board in achieving its risk capability is assured through Board challenge management objectives.
and appropriate management selection and skills development.
Managers are supported During the course of the year the Board in giving effect to their risk responsibilities considered the Groups responsiveness to through policies and guidelines on risk and changes within its business environment.
Support through The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing facilitated risk assessments is provided by process, which has been operational during Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 103 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS It is important to ensure that levels of reward are commensurate with performance and that the Companys reward policy creates a strong alignment between its shareholders and executives.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 1.2 Membership of the Committee The Committee comprised the following This report sets out the Companys non-executive directors during the year remuneration policy and practice for ended 31 December 2011: executive and non-executive directors and provides details of their remuneration Sir Philip Hampton Chairman Sir Philip Hampton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and share interests for the year ended David Challen 31December 2011.
Sir CK Chow 1.1 Role of the Remuneration IN THIS SECTION Committee and Terms of Reference Jack Thompson 104 Remuneration The Remuneration Committee the Peter Woicke Committee Committee is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the The Companys chief executive attends 105 Policy on executive Board on: the Committee meetings by invitation and director remuneration assists the Committee in its deliberations, The Companys general policy on executive 105 Elements of executive except when issues relating to her own and senior management remuneration.
director remuneration compensation are discussed.
No directors The specic remuneration packages for are involved in deciding their own 110 Executive shareholding remuneration.
In 2011, the Committee was executive directors of the Company, targets including basic salary, performance-based advised by the Companys Human Resources 111 External appointments short-term and long-term incentives, and Finance functions and, specically, by pensions and other benets.
Mervyn Walker and Chris Corrin.
It also took 111 Policy on non-executive external advice as shown in Figure 1.
Certain director remuneration The remuneration of the chairman.
overseas operations within the Group are 111 Chairmans fees The design and operation of the Companys also provided with audit related services from share incentive schemes.
Deloittes and PwCs worldwide member 111 Directors service rms and non-audit related services from contracts The full Terms of Reference of the Committee Mercers worldwide member rms.
can be found on the Anglo American website 111 Historical comparative and copies are available onrequest.
A summary of the letter from Mercer Limited TSR performance containing the conclusions of their review graphs The Committee met three times during 2011 of the Committees executive remuneration and dealt with ad hoc items between formal 112 Remuneration processes for 2011 can be found on page 116. meetings by round robin resolutions.
outcomes during 2011 For more information visit 115 Sums paid to third www.
com parties in respect of a directors services 115 Directors share interests 116 Independent remuneration report review 104 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Governance Figure 1: External advice provided to the Committee Advisers Other services provided to the Company  Appointed by the Company, with the Investment advisers, actuaries and auditors LLP PwC agreement of the Committee, to provide for various pension schemes: advisers on specialist valuation services and market internal audit projects: taxation, payroll and remuneration data executive compensation advice Linklaters LLP Appointed by the Company, with the Legal advice on certain corporate matters Linklaters agreement of the Committee, to provide legal advice on long-term incentives and directors service contracts Mercer Limited Engaged by the Committee to review the Investment advisers and actuaries for various Mercer Committees processes on an annual basis, pension schemes in order to provide shareholders with assurance that the remuneration processes the Committee has followed are in line with stated policy and that the Committee has operated within its Terms of Reference Deloitte LLP In their capacity as Group auditors, Deloitte Deloitte undertake an audit of sections 10 and 11 of the remuneration report annually.
However, they provide no advice to the Committee 2.
POLICY ON EXECUTIVE Representatives of the Companys principal Incentive levels are set taking account of DIRECTOR REMUNERATION investors are consulted on material changes the median expected value of long-term to remuneration policy.
The Committee incentives relative to other companies of The Companys remuneration policy is Chairman consulted with this group of a similar size.
formulated to attract and retain high-calibre investors on the LTIP changes and the 3.2 Basic salary executives and to motivate them to develop Chairmans share award in the first quarter and implement the Companys business The basic salary of the executive directors of 2011. strategy in order to optimise long-term isreviewed annually and is targeted at the shareholder value creation.
The Committee market median of companies of comparable intends that this policy will continue to apply 3.
ELEMENTS OF EXECUTIVE size, market sector, business complexity and for 2012 and subsequent years, subject to DIRECTOR REMUNERATION international scope.
This is adjusted either ongoing review as appropriate.
The policy is way based on experience and other relevant 3.1 Remuneration mix framed around the following key principles: factors.
The market for executives of Each executive directors total remuneration main-board calibre, in large international Total rewards will be set at levels that are consists of basic salary, annual bonus, mining companies in particular, has sufciently competitive to enable the long-term incentives and benets.
An continued to be very competitive in recent recruitment and retention of high-calibre appropriate balance is maintained between years and it is therefore deemed sensible to executives.
xed and performance-related remuneration position basic salary for executive directors and between elements linked to short-term Incentive-based rewards will be earned at no lower than the median point.
Company financial performance and those linked to through the achievement of demanding performance, individual performance and longer-term shareholder value creation.
performance conditions consistent with changes in responsibilities are also taken shareholder interests.
Assuming on-target performance, the into consideration in setting salary levels Committees policy is that at least 50% each year.
Incentive plans, performance measures 60% for Cynthia Carroll of each executive and targets will be structured to operate Basic salary increases for executive directors remuneration is performancedirectors with effect from January 2012 soundly throughout the business cycle.
In 2011, 78% of the chief executives were limited to an ination adjustment in The design of long-term incentives will be and 76% of the finance directors line with the general salary review for the remuneration on an expected-value basis prudent and will not expose shareholders broader employee population.
was performance-related as shown in Figure 2 on page 106.
In considering the market positioning of reward elements, account will be The Bonus Share Plan BSP and the taken of the performance of the Company Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP are and of the individual executive director.
designed to align the longer-term interests of shareholders and executives and to Reward practice will conform to best underpin the Companys performance practice standards as far as reasonably culture.
The Committee monitors the practicable.
relevance and appropriateness of the performance measures and targets applicable to both plans.
Further details of the BSP and the LTIP are set out on pages 106 to 109.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 105 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 3.3 Bonus Share Plan BSP targets.
Bonus parameters are set on an Figure 2: The BSP was first operated in 2004 and all individual basis and the level of bonus CEO Expected values executive directors are normally eligible to payable is reduced if certain overall safety participate in it.
improvement targets are not met.
1 The BSP requires executive directors to In 2011 the maximum cash element was invest a significant proportion of their 87.5% of basic salary in the case of both remuneration in shares, thereby more Cynthia Carroll and Ren Mdori.
Normally, 3 closely aligning their interests with those of half of any bonus earned is payable in cash shareholders, and encourages management and the other half is deferred into shares.
at all levels to build up a meaningful personal The maximum bonus is payable only for 2 stake in the Company.
Awards under the BSP meeting targets which, in the opinion of are not pensionable, are made annually and the Committee, represent an exceptional consist of three elements: performance for the Group in the light of prevailing market conditions.
The part of A performance-related cash element.
the bonus that is deferred is delivered in 1 Fixed 22% 2 Performance-related annual bonus 31% Bonus Shares as a conditional the form of a conditional award of Bonus 3 Performance-related long-term incentive 47% award, normally to a value equal to Shares.
These Bonus Shares vest only if the the cash element.
participant remains in employment with the FD Expected values Group until the end of a three-year holding An additional performance-related element period or is regarded by the Committee as in the form of Enhancement Shares.
To increase the alignment 1 The award and matching levels are with shareholders interests, the Committee summarised in Figure 4.
The BSP operates allows executive directors to elect to defer as follows: 75% of the total bonus.
3 The value of the bonus is calculated by The Committee is able to apply a clawback reference to achievement against annual of deferred Bonus Shares in the event that, performance targets which include during the relevant deferral period, the 2 measures of corporate and, if applicable, Committee becomes aware of a material business unit performance as well as error in the Companys results for the the achievement of specic individual relevant bonus performance period.
For executive directors, the Executive directors also receive a 1 Fixed 24% corporate element is based on stretching 2 Performance-related annual bonus 32% conditional award of Enhancement Shares earnings per share EPS targets which 3 Performance-related long-term incentive 44% at the same time as the award of Bonus are calculated using underlying earnings Shares.
The maximum potential, at face reconciled in note 13 of the financial value, of the Enhancement Shares is 75% statements.
The key individual objectives of the face value of the Bonus Shares.
are designed to support the Companys Awards of Enhancement Shares made in strategic priorities and in 2011 included cost Figure 3: Vesting of 2011 will vest after three years only to the and asset optimisation, project execution, Enhancement Shares extent that a challenging performance portfolio restructuring, strategic initiatives, condition based on earnings per share organisational structure and capabilities, growth against growth in the UK Retail CSR initiatives and safety improvements.
75% Price Index RPI Real EPS growth is The Committee reviews these measures met as shown in Figure 3.
Real EPS annually to ensure that they remain growth is viewed as the most appropriate appropriate and sufciently stretching in performance measure for this element 33% the context of the broader macro-economic of the BSP because it is a fundamental outlook and more specic performance financial performance indicator, both expectations for the Company and its 0% internally and externally, and links directly RPI RPI RPI RPI RPI RPI RPI 0% 3% 6% 9% 12% 15% 18% operating businesses.
to the Companys long-term objective of improving earnings.
There is no retesting of In 2011, 50% of each annual bonus was Real EPS growth over three years this performance condition.
Enhancement based on the corporate financial measure Shares will be subject to the same clawback and the remaining 50% on key personal provisions mentioned previously.
This split is designed to reect the importance of The BSP targets have been approved by the the ongoing projects and strategic Committee after reviewing performance over repositioning of the Group as well as the a number of years and have been set at a level volatile nature of commodity prices with which provides stretching performance levels the implications of this on setting earnings for management.
106 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Additional percentage of Bonus Shares acquired Governance The level of performance achieved and the Figure 4: Bonus Share Plan Summary proportion of awards vesting in respect of each performance period will be published in the subsequent remuneration report.
Performance measures 50% corporate financial measure 3.4 Share options and all-employee 50% key personal performance measure share schemes Maximum bonus 175% of basic salary No share options were granted in 2011 to cash plus Bonus Shares executive directors under the Companys Discretionary Option Plan DOP and there Delivery ratio is no intention to make future grants under 1 Cash 25% 50% the unapproved part of the DOP to executive directors.
However, the DOP is retained for 1 Bonus Shares 75% 50% use in special circumstances relating to the Maximum Enhancement 75% of Bonus Shares, subject to recruitment or retention of key executives.
Share potential a performance condition EPS UK-based executive directors are eligible 1 to participate in the Companys Save As You Subject to executive director election.
Earn scheme SAYE and Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Performance conditions do not apply to these schemes because they are Figure 5: Long Term Incentive Plan Summary offered to all UK-based employees.
3.5 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP At the AGM in April 2011, shareholders Maximum award level % of basic salary 350% approved a new LTIP to replace the previous Actual award level % of basic salary 350% CEO LTIP, which expired in mid-2011 and the main features are summarised in Figure 5.
300% FD Award levels Performance measures Conditional LTIP awards are granted annually TSR Sector Index 25% of award to executive directors.
The normal maximum award level under the LTIP is 350% and TSR FTSE 100 25% of award 300% of basic salary respectively for the AOSC 50% of award chief executive and finance director, with an overall scheme maximum of 350% of basic Maximum vesting of each element salary.
It is anticipated that, in 2012, awards TSR Sector Index 100% under the LTIP will be made at this level.
The Committee is satisfied that the performance TSR FTSE 100 100% conditions that need to be met for these AOSC 100% awards to vest in full are sufciently stretching in the context of the award levels.
These awards are discretionary and are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Figure 6: LTIP Sector Index Performance measures As in previous years, vesting of the LTIP Mining Industrial Minerals awards made during 2011 is subject to the Category weighting 94% 6% achievement, over a xed three-year period, of stretching Group performance targets.
Comparator companies BHP Billiton plc CRH plc Half of each award is subject to a Group Rio Tinto plc Holcim Limited Total Shareholder Return TSR measure, Teck Cominco Limited Lafarge while the other half is subject to a Group operational measure, an Asset Optimisation Vale Heidelberg Cement and Supply Chain AOSC efficiency Vedanta Resources plc measure.
The measures are described in greater detail on the following page.
Xstrata plc Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 107
