A E H S E I T I R U C E S D N A G N I K F N I N A B A N C I A L S Our company at a glance MISYS BANKING AND SECURITIES Misys today is one of the largest and strongest vendors of industryMisys is the largest independent banking applications software vendor outside North America and a market specific software products and solutions in the world, and has over leader in terms of customer base and global reach.
Misys 6,000 employees and customers in over 120 countries.
Our Banking and Securities supplies over 1,400 customers in customers are in the international banking and securities industry, over 120 countries, among them 60% of the top 250 banks the international healthcare sector and the United Kingdoms general worldwide, with software and solutions for retail banking, insurance market.
We partner with them to deliver outstanding wholesale banking, treasury and capital markets, risk management and asset management.
It has 2,600 people information technology solutions.
Through Sesame, our wholly around the world, over 70% of whom are outside the owned subsidiary, we also provide business process outsourcing United Kingdom, and sales, implementation and customer services to independent financial advisers in the UK.
support teams in over 28 countries.
HEALTHCARE Misys is one of the top five vendors in the healthcare IT sector in North America.
Misys Healthcare Systems offers reliable, easy-to-use software and services that enable physicians and caregivers to manage the complexities of healthcare more easily, in every medical care setting.
It serves 92,000 physicians in 18,000 medical practices, 1,250 hospitals and 600 home care agencies.
Based in the United States, with 2,600 employees, it has offices in 30 locations.
FINANCIAL SERVICES Big software decisions are major commitments for any organisation and the vendors Misys General Insurance is the leading supplier of IT business stability and quality of service are key factors.
Financial and healthcare solutions to general insurance intermediaries in the institutions are increasingly reliant on their systems and software: a great deal is at United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland and owns the UKs largest intermediary network, Countrywide.
At Misys we know this and everything we do revolves around it.
We start by It employs 300 people.
hiring highly talented people with a deep understanding of our customers business: we challenge them with stretching assignments to mature their talents: and give Sesame is the United Kingdoms largest provider of them real responsibility.
We believe everyone at Misys makes a difference.
Together support services to over 6,500 independent financial we create a successful Company with successful customer partnerships, so everyone advisers IFAs and intermediaries.
Sesame has 900 can do their best.
people across the UK and overseas.
2 1982 Misys moves into profit E R V I C E S S M E T S Y S E R A C H T L % 1 % 4 6 % 3 7 2 1 8 2 MARKETS AND CORE PRODUCTS KEY ACHIEVEMENTS COMPANY CONTRIBUTION Retail Equation, Bankmaster Significant new client wins in retail banking in Europe and Asia, including major contract with CC Bank, a leader Wholesale MidasPlus, OPICS, Misys in German consumer lending.
In wholesale banking, Loan IQ, Trade Innovation, MidasPlus, the next evolution of Midas, delivered to Misys eServices Platform, 15 customers, including HBOS and Bayerische Landesbank: Meridian, Global partnership with S1 for international rollout of front-office, Managed Services multi-channel solution.
Enhanced Summit FT and MUST Treasury and capital Summit FT, MUST 240m 38m 2,600 solutions launched for treasury and capital markets.
In risk Revenue Adjusted Employees markets operating profit management, partnership with Almonde to help banks Risk management Risk Vision, Eagleye Statutory operating respond to Basel II regulatory requirements.
profit 27m MARKETS AND CORE PRODUCTS KEY ACHIEVEMENTS COMPANY CONTRIBUTION Hospitals and health systems Misys CPR, Misys Optimum launched a suite of solutions allowing Misys Laboratory, patient information to be used and shared across all Misys Radiology, medical settings.
First CPR EMR contract signed with POH Misys Pharmacy Medical Center to improve enterprise-wide patient care.
Largest EMR solution contract yet signed with Genesys Physicians office Misys EMR, Misys Vision, PHO for its 180 physicians.
Contract for first Misys Tiger CPR Laboratory solution signed with Pascack Valley Home care and long term care Misys Homecare 294m 44m 2,600 Hospital.
Homecare solution, a market leader, selected Revenue Adjusted Employees Transaction services Misys FastClaim, Misys operating profit by a number of major home care agencies.
Fast Bill, Misys FastRemit Statutory operating profit 21m MARKETS AND CORE PRODUCTS KEY ACHIEVEMENTS COMPANY CONTRIBUTION Financial systems OASys, BROOMS New products launched OASys Commercial, Premium Finance and FSA Regulation software modules.
Insurance management Countrywide network, Countrywide continued to add new members.
Equip, Fleet Full regulatory support service for IFAs who are members Sesame launched on 1 August 2003.
Major brand 366m 25m 1,200 of the Sesame Network.
Tailored support packages through building campaign conducted including publication of Revenue Adjusted Employees operating profit Sesame Direct for IFAs regulated directly by FSA.
Life, consumer guide to money, The Naked Adviser.
Over 4,000 Statutory operating pension and investment solutions, mortgage and general advisers signed up to new mortgage and general loss 12m insurance services, Assureweb, Sesame Office.
Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
