COMPANY PROFILE 11 Overview Overview Northgate Information Solutions is a major supplier of Through the use of innovative IT in local government, software applications and outsourcing solutions to the public Northgate is helping local authorities to transform the sector, human resources and corporate markets and one delivery of public services with Front Office, our market of the leading suppliers of HR software in the UK.
leading and award winning citizen relationship The company works closely with all of the UKs regional management system and Assert, our new and innovative police forces, 30% of UK local authorities and with many benefit assessment tool.
In criminal justice and public corporate organisations including more than 50% of FTSE safety, Northgate is also delivering public sector value 100 companies.
through our Notice Enforcement Systems and National Management Information System NMIS solutions.
The The company was originally founded in 1969.
Today London Congestion Charging scheme uses Northgate Northgate employs approximately 2,200 staff and has 2,500 software to track offenders, as do the majority of police large medium customers and almost 5,000 small medium speed cameras across the UK.
customers across the UK and Ireland.
Headquartered in Hemel Hempstead, Northgate has 21 major offices across the Northgates ProIV product, a rapid application UK with six further international offices.
Northgate development tool and Reality, our multi-value database, Information Solutions has three divisions focused on the are proven software solutions that enable Northgates companys core business areas: Human Resources Systems customers to develop fast, robust, future-proof and costHRS, Public Services encompassing both the Local effective business applications.
Government and Criminal Justice Public Safety markets, and Corporate Services.
Outsourcing Northgate's customer centric approach is based on fully Using a wide range of IT skills, Northgate can create a flexible understanding application-specific business processes.
This service offering that enables companies to benefit from enables organisations in both the public and private sectors performance improvements whilst still maintaining or to increase their business process efficiency when deploying reducing running costs.
Northgate is a long-standing supplier Northgate applications and their associated services or when of outsourced IT solutions enabling organisations in both the utilising the companys wide range of high quality IT services.
public and private sectors to hand over confidently all or part Furthermore, Northgate manages many customers' key of their IT requirement to Northgate.
systems, providing a broad range of flexible and costNorthgate manages major IT outsourcing contracts with effective outsourced solutions available either at client sites local government, police and corporate clients.
We provide or hosted at its own BS7799 accredited data centre.
hosted applications from our state of the art data centre and manage clients IT infrastructure and desktop services on site.
Market Leading Applications For clients in the HR market, Northgate is a leading supplier Within HRS, Northgates ResourceLink is a highly scaleable, of payroll outsourcing services which range from a fully flexible and web-enabled integrated suite of HR, payroll managed service to hosting the application.
Our client base and pension modules.
Including business intelligence and ranges from FTSE 100 companies right through to SMEs.
workflow functions, it is designed to increase administration efficiencies, improve management information and reduce the total operating costs in HR departments.
Our EmpowerHR suite provides an integrated solution for the management of personnel, recruitment and training: whilst its web-based Internet recruitment and Intranet solutions offer advanced e-HR capabilities.
When integrated with Easipay, EmpowerHR provides HR professionals with the accurate information required to fully develop value enhancing people strategies.
