YEAR AT A GLANCE CALENDAR HIGHLIGHTS 2003 2004 FEB MAR APR BuckHickman InOne launches a specialist The InOne brand is launched to enable Customer relationship management 320-page Health and Safety Catalogue us to communicate our full range of software is implemented across Newark introducing 1,600 new health, safety and products and services more effectively.
InOnes 46 sales branches and two hygiene products to bring the total product Four businesses are rebranded with the call centres.
MAY JUN JUL Newark InOne launches additions The Group renews its global supply The Newark InOne Direct Ship service is to its product range expanding its agreement with Philips, adding Newark launched giving customers in Europe and semiconductor offering by 50%.
InOne and BuckHickman InOne to the Asia Pacific easy access to an additional contract along with Farnell InOne, further 70,000 products delivered direct from The new Farnell InOne catalogue is evidence of our wide geographical and the US.
published with a total offer of 150,000 service capability for multinational products, incorporating the full customers.
AUG SEP OCT Steve Canham is appointed Managing Premier Farnell is named Electronics Investment at the Newark InOne North Director of the Marketing and Distribution Industry European Distributor 2003, a American distribution centre is completed.
Division, Europe and Asia Pacific.
newly created award for the electronics The Premier Farnell core values industry developed to promote best CPC launches its new 2,800 page programme is launched.
Interactive small practice in customer care, sales growth, catalogue with the addition of 13,500 group sessions are held with employees innovation and employee motivation.
It is split into seven main throughout the Group to explore and product areas for easy reference.
NOV DEC JAN Paul Tallentire is appointed President of To facilitate faster and more efficient Akron Brass wins a contract valued Newark InOne.
deliveries, a distribution centre and sales at $600,000 to supply a Storm Remote office is opened in the Free Trade Zone Control Vapor Mitigation system to A tornado hits Akron Brass manufacturing in Shanghai.
Significant damage is caused but, as a result of well-rehearsed A Communication Excellence Award is drills, there are no injuries to personnel.
won for the internal communication of the new branding to employees.
The National Electronic Distributors Association awards Newark InOne seven out of nine awards for direct marketing and advertising.
FEB JUN AUG YEAR AT A GLANCE PREMIER FARNELL PLC 01 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
