Social performance summary For Premier, corporate social responsibility CSR is a fundamental To work in partnerships to multiply these positive impacts: Premier part of implementing our corporate strategy and has both practical agreed a partnership with Plan UK to deliver a developmental and ethical dimensions.
It includes managing business concerns programme in rural Guinea Bissau.
This programme will bring water such as risk and protecting reputation.
It also means, doing the and sanitation infrastructure to schools.
Our plan is to coordinate right thing, investing in the community, and creating a place where this programmes activities with Premiers ongoing support for people feel good about working.
the Voluntary Services Overseas activities in furthering education in that country.
Implementation of our policies define how the company engages with stakeholders on community development initiatives, We established a new partnership with Leadership for Environment transparency, human rights, identifying risks and related issues and Development LEAD in India.
This collaboration will underpin and why we believe that our approach to CSR makes us a business our environmental and CSR activities in India going forward.
and community partner of choice.
Our ongoing collaboration with LEAD-Pakistan provided the ideal In 2004, we continued to roll out our CSR strategy, focusing on the platform to work with United Nations Environment Programme three key areas we highlighted in 2003 shown in italics below : World Conservation Monitoring Centre UNEP-WCMC, as part of the Proteus Project to pilot a biodiversity data gathering exercise To remain an industry leader in the sustainable development in Pakistan.
In addition, we continue to work with Melbournes arena: In 2004, Premier has actively participated in the UK Forum Monash University managing human rights issues within companies.
of the Global Compact, that describes ten principles encompassing human rights, labour standards and the environment, which Some stakeholders believe that a lack of accountability and Premier has adopted wherever we work.
transparency in relation to oil and gas revenues, taxes and bonus payments in developing countries can exacerbate poor governance Along with retaining our listing on the FTSE4Good, Premier has and may lead to corruption, conflict and poverty.
To begin to also been named as one of the top 20 companies globally, in address this concern, the UK Prime Minister Tony Blair announced terms of recognising and dealing with human rights issues, by the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI at the the Business and Human Rights Resource Centre, an independent World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, organisation in partnership with Amnesty International Business in September 2002.
The EITI aims to increase transparency in Groups and leading academic institutions.
transactions between governments and companies within extractive industries.
The Global Reporters 2004 Survey of Corporate Sustainability Reporting listed Premiers 2002 03 Sustainability Performance We have looked closely at the development of the EITI and its Report as one of 2004 Top 50 Companies.
Reporting on how principles, and we have further engaged with the UK governments we perform is continuing, and we will be publishing the 2004 05 Department for International Development and our peer group Premier Sustainability Report later in 2005. to understand how we can contribute.
Premier recognises and supports the EITI and its principles.
We further stand ready to Also in 2004, we were awarded a rating by a UK based investment support those governments with whom we do business to agree house that triggered the investors Socially Responsible how greater transparency can be achieved.
Investment Fund SRI to take a position in the company.
This makes Premier one of the few oil and gas companies that attracts investment from SRI funds.
To continue to plan, and deliver, net positive social and environmental impacts: We review potential issues and risks, which might arise from Premiers social and environmental impacts.
We further renewed Premiers management systems and our ability to prevent and deal with these impacts.
Initiatives in 2004 were started or completed in Guinea Bissau, NE India Assam and Indonesia.
With respect to specific operations, Premier commissions rigorous environmental impact assessments for seismic and drilling activity in support of its work programmes.
12 12 Pr Premier Oil emier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004
