6 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORE BUSINESSES AT A GLANCE Severn Trent generates revenues of 2.0 billion and employs over 15,000 people across the UK, US and Europe.
We are increasingly focused on the industrial and commercial sectors to help business customers meet environmental objectives.
Severn Trent Water provides essential water and Track record of outperforming sewerage services to around 3 million households regulatory contract.
It also provides products Strong management structures and and services to business customers in its region.
It has a good track record on service levels, gross Good account management for operating cost efficiencies and quality, and business customers.
Excellent customer service, quality and biodiversity record For further information please visit www.
Biffa is one of the UKs largest integrated waste Specialist fleet achieving high levels management businesses, providing collection, of fuel and operational efficiency.
landfill and special waste services to local Over 30 landfill sites with good authorities and industrial commercial clients.
geographic coverage and high It has around 90,000 customers, and an environmental standards.
infrastructure that includes 34 operational landfill Special waste solutions based on sites and 13 special waste treatment facilities.
It also has 11 operational facilities in Belgium.
Strong IT infrastructure delivering synergies and efficiencies.
For further information please visit www.
co. uk Good strategic partnerships in recycling LABORATORIES.
Severn Trent Laboratories STL is the largest Record of innovation and being at the environmental testing company in the world, forefront of new markets.
providing environmental analysis services in History of successful acquisitions and the US and the UK.
It has 31 laboratories and organic growth.
21 service centres in the US, and 4 laboratories Reputation for good customer service.
and 1 service centre in the UK.
Client list of leading US and UK companies For further information please visit www.
co. uk 7 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Performance highlights Outlook.
Turnover up 4.2% at 956.7 million In December 2004, Ofwat will announce the final determination.
Top-performing water and sewerage company in Ofwats of its AMP4 price review for the years 2005-2010.
Until this is latest Overall Performance Assessment finalised, there is some uncertainty about the outlook for all water.
Total AMP3 gross operating efficiencies of some 69 million, companies.
However, Severn Trent Water is well on track to 17 million more than Ofwat targets outperform Ofwats AMP3 targets for the five year period to.
Started 16 million programme to generate 13% 2004 2005.
It is also well positioned to benefit from the new of annual energy needs from renewable resources competition framework for large customers, which comes into operation for 2005..
Turnover up 23.9% at 633.1 million Legislation and taxation will drive demand in the UK for.
Acquisition of Hales strengthens position as one of the UKs alternative methods of waste disposal in the UK.
Aided by its largest waste management companies experience in Belgium, Biffa is in a strong position to capitalise.
Extended contracts with local authorities, working towards on this.
Its expertise in special waste will also help it use the achieving new recycling targets openings created by the Landfill Directive in the UK..
Boosted capacity to generate power from landfill gas to around 90MW in the UK.
In local currency, turnover in the US up some 8%, and in the The STL strategy to be a leader in high-end markets continues UK up 2% to present new opportunities in emerging markets such as indoor.
Acquisition of P&K, a microbiology business with a high profile air quality and mould, food microbiology, endocrine disrupters, in the growing market for indoor air quality testing in the US and perchlorate testing.
In the US, legislation concerning harbour.
Acquisition of Aerotech strengthens presence in south-western infrastructure and dredging cleanup also positions STL favourably US, and puts STL at forefront of markets for indoor air quality, for the high growth market of sediments analysis.
In the UK, EU food microbiology, and industrial hygiene legislation like the Water Framework Directive, the Groundwater.
Opening of new service centres in US extends Directive, and the Landfill Directive will create new openings geographical strength for growth.
For information on our other businesses visit the following websites: Severn Trent Retail Services www.
co. uk Severn Trent Services www.
com Severn Trent Utility Services www.
co. uk Severn Trent Water International www.
com Severn Trent Property www.
com Severn Trent Systems www.
com Charles Haswell and Partners www.
