Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 1 Our business at a glance Communications Spirent Communications is a global provider of performance analysis impairments and stress test equipment to ensure maximum and service assurance solutions that enable the development and performance and conformance to industry standards.
We also provide deployment of next-generation networking technologies.
a range of professional support services to assist customers with their testing needs.
The Performance Analysis division develops testing solutions for a broad range of communications technologies critical to the The Service Assurance division provides network monitoring and development of equipment and deployment of next-generation management systems for telecoms service providers to assure networks.
Our systems test wireline and wireless equipment, the quality of their high bandwidth services.
Our systems enable including core and metro terabit routers, broadband access devices, the efficient delivery of leased line, DSL and IP services.
The division local area network switches and routers, 3G wireless handsets, provides operations support systems software, remote test probes, Internet telephony and web applications and security.
Our systems network test access systems and support and maintenance services.
enable customers to emulate large-scale networks, introduce Network Products We are a developer and manufacturer of innovative solutions for Our heatshrink insulation, convoluted tubing and cable covering fastening, identication, protection and connectivity in electrical products provide insulation and physical protection for wires and communications networks marketed under the global brand and cables.
We are a market leader in systems for the automated HellermannTyton.
application of cable xings and identication printing and application systems.
HellermannTyton designs and manufactures a broad range of high-grade nylon ties, clips, channels and xings for fastening We also produce a range of products used in the installation of cables and wires in a broad range of applications.
We also produce local area and wide area communications networks such as raceways, products with value added identication and security features.
ducting, racks, patch panels and modular jacks.
Systems Our Systems group comprises PG Drives Technology, a leading as well as small industrial vehicles such as oor cleaning vehicles supplier of sophisticated electronic control systems for specialist and aerial access platforms.
Our systems allow the user to control electrical vehicles in the mobility and industrial markets.
the direction and speed of the vehicle as well as controlling other aspects of the vehicles functions, including seating or platform PG Drives Technology develops power control systems for use in position, lights, turn indicators and vehicle diagnostics.
a variety of specialist electrically powered vehicles.
These include medical vehicles such as powered wheelchairs and mobility scooters
