Data Data technology has continued to grow and develop over the past year and, within the broad range of data services we offer, we have seen demand for both Ethernet and MPLS Multi-Protocol Label Switching services accelerate.
Customers are taking advantage of our true endData services have seen some to-end UK-wide Ethernet capabilities and of the fastest growth in our portfolio we now have more than 2,000 Ethernet of products.
Rapid take up of Ethernet connections in place.
These private services, launched in the Autumn of 2002, has seen more than 2,000 Ethernet connections enable our customers, Ethernet circuits provided to corporate such as Imperial College London and customers, including Baillie Gifford, Scottish Executive, to link sites across the TOTAL E&P UK and UHI Millennium Institute, the higher education institution.
UK while operating at the same high speed as their office network.
Ethernet is THUS is the first provider of becoming one of the most reliable and National Ethernet services on a cost-effective ways to deliver broadband UK-wide basis to carry the Cisco applications and services, providing Powered Network designation.
companies with cost and efficiency savings.
This status helps THUSs customers to understand that When we initially designed our MPLS its services are delivered over platform, it was essential that it was built a reliable, high performance to allow us to offer a range of interoperable MPLS IP VPN services securely architecture, designed with technologies in the future and, with the link customers various locations Quality of Service applications growth of Ethernet technology, we are headquarters, branch offices and in mind.
now able to realise this and combine these remote users using cost-effective IP-based voice services and data Duncan Mitchell, Vice President services.
Furthermore, it enables and Managing Director, based IP VPN Internet Protocol Virtual customers to pick and mix the UK and Ireland, Cisco Systems Private Network services using Ethernet most appropriate technology and bandwidth at each site, resulting in as the access technology.
This enables a reduction in total network costs.
an organisation to securely link its various Telecoms locations headquarters, offices and Traditional voice services continue remote users, using cost-effective IP-based to be a key requirement for UK businesses voice services and data connectivity.
and companies today are continually MPLS enables packets of information looking to their telecoms suppliers to be transmitted in a particular order and to provide them with a flexible range within a specified timeframe, making it of voice services at the same time ideal for the delivery of time sensitive data.
One such When combined with the simplicity and customer is Virgin Group which has affordability of Ethernet access, MPLS IP chosen THUS as its preferred supplier VPNs are ideal for corporate voice, data for 200 sites across the UK.
We will and Internet communications.
be providing Virgin Group with a range of voice services and also providing data services such as leased lines.
Our flexible We chose to work with approach and specifically designed THUS because its innovative package of services is enabling Virgin approach and expertise means Group to reduce its costs across the group our customers will get exactly THUS at a Glance while meeting the differing needs of each the service they demand.
THUS provides telecommunication individual business.
Bill Butler, Managing Director, Tele2 solutions to business customers throughout the UK under the The introduction of Carrier Pre-Select CPS THUS and Demon brands.
During voice services last year led to a change In THUS we found a likethe past 12 months, we have in the way that traditional voice services minded company committed increased momentum from new are delivered in the UK.
CPS technology to providing excellent customer customer contracts, adding to allows customers to bypass the BT service and able to move our scale and productivity UKnetwork and have their calls carried quickly to get the job done.
Our service innovation is by an alternative telecoms supplier without Jennie Beament, complemented by full certification the need to dial a prefix before each call.
Group Procurement Director, for voice, data, Internet and Tele2 was one such company to take Virgin Management Ltd contact centres under the advantage of these changes and launch ISO9001:2000 standard, which a new consumer voice service in the UK is testament to the people, skills, it chose THUS to provide the systems application and commitment and routing technology to carry Tele2s to quality within our business.
domestic voice traffic over our national fibre optic network.
2 Internet The broadband Digital Photo Through our Demon brand, THUS offers Kiosks, enabled by THUS, will the full range of Internet access services for the first time give the mass including email, hosting, e-commerce market the means to get the very and of course DSL Digital Subscriber most from their digital camera.
Line technology services which continue Alistair Brown, Business Development to dominate growth in the Internet sector.
Manager, Jessops There has been a rapid take up of ADSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line, also known as broadband, with nearly 100,000 customers now using Demon ADSL products in the UK and the Netherlands.
Broadband offers a high bandwidth, low cost alternative to dedicated leased lines or the more traditional dial-up services.
Customers Contact centre services are being more innovative in their THUS provides a range of inbound deployment of broadband and we and outbound contact centre services recently provided 90 ADSL broadband and was recently awarded the EnergySure connections to Jessops for the rollout Accreditation for its telemarketing of Digital Photo Kiosks in its stores.
operations only the third contact centre These kiosks provide Jessops customers employer in the UK to receive the award.
with an easy-to-use and reliable way This means that all THUS employees to purchase professionally printed Amserve Ltd has renewed our selling utility services in our contact digital photographs.
contract to provide telecommunications centres are trained to adhere to best services for its Amstrad e-m@iler and DSL is no longer just a high bandwidth e-m@ilerplus products until 2009. practice guidelines.
THUS first started working with Internet connection and we have developed Amstrad in 2001 when it developed Interactive and launched Private Access DSL the platform for the e-m@iler and, THUS Interactive services create and to provide customers with an alternative in April 2003, THUS enabled an provide a range of telephone based important enhancement to the service, to traditional leased lines and ISDN access allowing two-way SMS texting between marketing promotions targeted at the technologies for their virtual private or the e-m@iler and mobile phones.
wide area networks, providing the same In December 2003, THUS worked with Amstrad to introduce the levels of security at a significantly reduced CopyMail function, allowing users cost.
In addition, we have worked with to nominate an e-mail address which Scottish Borders Rural Broadband Ltd then automatically receives copies of all messages sent or received to provide wireless broadband connections by the e-m@iler.
for businesses and residents in a number of rural towns in the Borders region.
Network and quality Behind all of the products and services EnergySure provides a Quality we offer sits our technologically Assurance where sales centres advanced national fibre optic network.
conform to a minimum standard This was designed and built with the of recruitment, training and foresight to enable todays technologies performance management.
to be seamlessly integrated whilst ScottishPower is delighted that continuing to offer superior quality of THUSs contact centre, working service to our customers.
We now believe hand-in-hand with ScottishPower, that, after BT, we offer the best UK-wide has not only met these standards coverage and connectivity from the but has surpassed many far north of Scotland to the south-east of the measures laid down of England, compared to any other Lerwick Stornoway|Kirkwall by EnergySure.
alternative carrier in the UK.
Thurso Keith Jones, National Compliance Fibre optic cable length now Inverness Manager, ScottishPower approaches 8,000km, including Aberdeen  6,100km of trunk network Glasgow|Falkirk More than100 points of presence Edinburgh Dumfries 15 metropolitan area networks Newcastle|Sunderland THUSs fibre optic network Durham Middlesbrough stretches from the South Preston  of England to the Shetland Chester|Sheffield Stoke-on-Trent Islands and the Hebrides Nottingham Birmingham THUS has connectivity to Gloucester Bristol|Milton Keynes Swindon 12 Telehouses in London, Reading London Manchester and Edinburgh Southampton|Croydon Brighton 3
