04 Financial Highlights 2004 2004 809.6m 2003 Turnover 746.7m 809.6m 2004 132.3m 2003 Operating Profit 99.4m 132.3m 2004 32.6p 2003 Earnings per share 23.9p 32.6p 2004 12.0p 2003 Dividend 9.0p 12.0p Before amortisation of goodwill and intangibles and exceptional items.
RESULTS 05 Business Highlights - 2004 December David Levin announced as UBMs new CEO CMP Media announces it is to publish Chinese version of Information Week PRNewswire announced that over 90 per cent of the Chinese companies listed on Nasdaq were using Xinhua PR Newswire.
November CMPMedica moved further online in French Healthcare JV acquisition of Axilog CMPi relaunched Safety and Health Practitioner, the UKs leading health and safety publication NOP World won three year global mystery shopping programme for Chevron Texaco.
CMP Turnover Healthcare Medias The Journal of Respiratory Diseases Celebrated its 25th Birthday.
October UBM showcased its healthcare businesses to investors.
PR Newswire launches New 8.4% Online Media Room Tool.
PR Newswire upgraded its premier national newsline service US1.
CMP Informations CountryView launched Free colour supplement magazine to accompany Farmers Guardian.
CMP Asia September jewellery Fair reached new heights of success - the largest in the Fairs 22-year history.
Eurisko NOP World invited to take part in RAJAR Radio Joint Audience Research Limited trial of passive portable radio and TV metering system.
September CMP Medias Digital Connect Magazine Launched 4-City Digital Convergence Road Show.
Operating Profit The full day of events included Intel, LG Electronics, Russound, HAI, Microsoft and Linksys presentations.
CMP Media and Micrsoft Corporation launched MSDN Magazine, to software developers in the Asia-Pacific region.
CMP Asias All China Leather Exhibition 33.1% ACLE and China International Footwear Fair CIFF concluded with resounding success at the Shanghai New International Expo Centre, recording an increase of 20 % over 2003.
August PR Newswire upgraded its Online Media Database - covering more than 475,000 journalists worldwide.
The CMP Media Channel conference based in Chicago included keynotes and World Premiers from AMD, Intel, Ingram, Microsoft & IBM.
CMP Healthcare Media to Launch Comprehensive Neurology Publication.
UAPs Daltons Group websites attracted the highest level of traffic of all the UAP sites.
In August the Daltons Group achieved 5.3m page impressions.
NOP World wins Earnings per Share global market research retail customer study for Shell.
July PR Newswire was the official newswire of both the Republican and Democratic national 36.4% conventions in 2004.
UBM completed the acquisition of leading professional healthcare media business in Europe & Asia, subsequently named CMPMedica.
Guangzhou welcomed Aquaria China 2004: Chinas first ever all-aquatic show.
June CMP Information Ltd announced the launch of London Interiors.
CMP Media launched TechWeb Network Pipelines a series of topically focused websites, providing business technology professionals with critical news and information.
Dividend May CMPi Safety and Health Practitioner announced the launch of its new website SHPonline.
Best Edition Ever of Asia Pacific Leather Fair Materials, Manufacturing and Technology.
APLF reinforced its position as the most significant annual event for the 33.3% leather industry with a record number of attendees.
April The 2nd China International Gold, Jewellery & Gem Fair at Shenzhen China Hi Tech Fair Exhibition Centre increased visitors by 8 percent.
UAPs The PA arrived launch of new female targeted magazine with a unique mix of lifestyle and business content.
CMP Media launched Electronics Supply & Manufacturing.
March CMP Asia announced that it had set up a new company, CMP Media Korea Co Ltd, in Korea to provide the full range of media products for the dynamic Korean market.
PR Newswire celebrated 50 Years as industry pioneer and leader.
February CMPi relaunched Guitar Player.
Now backed by extensive research by focus groups, surveys amongst readers and subscribers, and married to a stylish redesign by award-winning Pentagram Design Inc. January CMP Medias TechWeb Network Launches IT Utility Pipeline.
Benvenuto a Eurisko Eurisko started its first year with UBM acquisition of the leading market research company in Italy.
