At a Glance Grainger Trust plc Total market value of property assets Group structure 1.4bn Grainger Trust plc Total operating contribution Tenanted residential division 107.2m Development and trading division Group operations are defined by the following: The facts Bulk of income comes from trading activities and realisation of reversionary Performance criteria surpluses, so alternatives to yield based valuation measures also presented.
Over the last five years our gross assets have increased from 0.4bn to 1.5bn Focus is therefore on profit before tax, earnings per share and net asset value.
Over the last five years our share price has grown Use of NAV, diluted NAV and Grainger NAV which takes account of long-term by 362%, the FTSE 250 by 10% reversionary surplus in our core portfolios.
The vacant possession value of our most expensive At individual project level, performance criteria such as cash generation, residential property is 1.5m: the cheapest 15,000 internal rate of return, profitability and strategic positioning used.
We own a total of 12,041 residential units with Major risk relates to state of housing market, linked to interest rates and Risk review vacant possession value of 1.9bn: these units general economic environment.
have cost us 0.9bn Risk minimised by: Two-thirds of our portfolio is valued between Portfolio is geographically widespread, reduces cluster risk 100,000 and 250,000 Portfolio spread across property types and values, reducing exposure to highly fluctuating top-end properties Relatively low average value where demand is consistent and strong Regulated properties are unmodernised on vacancy so demand tends to be high Long-term view taken and financial stability enables short-term price fluctuations to be withstood.
Managing our portfolio All activities characterised by cash generation, high trading margins and Business review willingness to take long-term view.
Our residential portfolio is managed Regulated tenancy market diminishing, but we maintain position by by a network of six offices supported active purchasing.
by managing agents in remote areas, 6 giving us a nationwide presence: Review new and expanding business opportunities life tenancies, European 1 investment, development and trading, asset and property management.
Harborne At plc level, key criteria is total shareholder return.
London profit on ordinary activities before 5.
Martlesham interest and taxation and excluding 6.
Newcastle upon Tyne administration expenses Grainger Trust plc 02 Annual report and accounts 2004 Tenanted residential division Development and trading division Divisional key characteristics: long-term business, Divisional key characteristics: opportunistic highly cash generative, high margins.
Market value of property assets by division Operating contribution by division Market value of property assets by division Operating contribution by division 1.3bn 81.9m 109m 25.3m Proportion of group operating contribution Number of properties by division Proportion of group operating contribution 76% 12,041 24% Within this division, contributions Within this division, contributions come from two areas of operation: come from three areas of operation: Regulated Investment value: 939m Key features: Trading Land and regeneration Key features: Translates green and brownfield sites into Tenant has security of tenure residential or mixed use developments Rents set by rent officer and increases capped at Highly profitable but complicated long-term retail price index 5% over two years business.
Purchased at discount to vacant possession value and Involves negotiations with planners, local sold on vacancy communities and councils Approximately 8% of the portfolio becomes vacant every year No new regulated tenancies being created Major sites: Kennel Farm, Basingstoke: West Waterlooville, Characteristics: Low rental yield, high margin on sales.
Hampshire: Widdrington Hadston, Northumberland Life tenancy Investment value: 167m Key features: Residential development Key features: Uses groups asset base, expertise or equity Tenant has security of tenure type funding No rental income Often in partnerships with housing associations, Whole or partial ownership purchased at discount to local developers and councils vacant possession Property sold on vacancy Major sites: No maintenance obligation South London Hospital, Clapham: Macaulay Road, Clapham: Hornsey Road Barnsbury, Islington, Characteristics: No rental yield, high sales margin.
Smith Docks, North Shields Assured, vacant and others Investment value: 223m Key features: Grainger Homes Key features: Small scale niche house building mostly in Market rented tenancies 136m North East of England Vacants to be sold 49m Produces consistent levels of cash and Other including ground rents and serviced apartments 38m trading margins Characteristics: Market yield, some margin on sale.
Major sites: The Kylins, Morpeth: Grangewood, Widdrington: Net rental income Kingsfield, Seahouses: Omega Apartments, Rental and management Key features: Birmingham Net rental income derived from regulated and assured tenancies after maintenance and management expenditure Asset and management fees Key features: Fee based activities remunerated by asset and property management fees Characteristics: Management skills adapted to provide additional fee income with no capital investment.
Annual report and accounts 2004 03 Grainger Trust plc
