St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC Annual report 2004 St. Modwen at a glance The companys principal areas of specialisation are:- St. Modwen is a regeneration specialist operating through a Town centre regeneration Many centres that were developed during the 1960s and 1970s network of six regional offices.
now require substantial refurbishment and updating to meet the These regional offices enable demands of the contemporary shopper, to accommodate new trends in town centre living, and to bring back community uses the company to understand into these centres.
St. Modwen has substantial experience in revitalising town centres, and is currently engaged on a number local needs and to exercise of schemes, including major projects at Edmonton Green, on the spot control.
Partnering industry The company is extremely Restructuring of traditional industries has left numerous former employment complexes potentially available for redevelopment.
experienced at working in St. Modwen has established joint ventures with companies such as Alstom, Corus, Goodyear and MG Rover to undertake the partnership and has joint redevelopment of such sites, often through innovative sale and ventures with many local leaseback arrangements which provide the required flexibility for the restructuring landowner.
authorities and other public Brownfield renewal sector organisations, and with St. Modwen is one of the UKs leading experts in the large-scale major industrial concerns.
The company has huge experience in the environmental clean-up, stabilisation, infrastructuring and redevelopment of such sites, having reclaimed hundreds of acres The companys strategy is of brownfield land for both residential and commercial use.
There is currently more than 1,000 acres of land in the hopper in the based on a hopper of future process of such redevelopment, including the massive Llanwern former steelworks and Avonmouth former zinc smelter sites.
With over 4,500 acres of Restoring heritage The company has applied similar skills to a number of heritage, developable land and 20 town leisure-related projects.
In these projects, an enabling commercial or district centre schemes development finances an otherwise non-viable heritage restoration scheme.
Two such schemes currently being undertaken are: the under its control, the company 100 million transformation of Trentham Gardens at Stoke on Trent into a major leisure and commercial visitor attraction of which is able to marshal a wide the first phase is already open: and a similar project at Dudley in range of projects through the the West Midlands, which will incorporate the existing zoo and medieval castle into a new visitor attraction.
This scheme is planning and development currently awaiting outline planning consent.
process and into a reliable stream of realised profits.
Both profits and net asset values have now increased for twelve consecutive years, as the company has delivered its promise to double in size every five years.
