Total revenues increased by 15% BURBERRY 2003 04 on an underlying basis, 14% reported FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Retail sales up 15% underlying, 13% reported Wholesale sales up 14% underlying, 14% reported Licensing revenue up 18% underlying, 15% reported Gross profit margin increased from 56.0% to 57.9% EBITA margin expanded from 19.7% to 20.9% EBITA increased by 21% to 141.2m 28% increase in diluted EPS before goodwill amortisation, exceptional gain and IPO related charges to 19.1p Strong cash generation reflects profitability and working capital efficiencies 50% increase in dividend to 4.5p per Ordinary Share Turnover m EBITA m EBITA margin % 2003 04 2003 04 2003 04 675.8 141.2 20.9 2002 03 2002 03 2002 03 593.6 116.7 19.7 2001 02 2001 02 2001 02 499.2 90.3 18.1 Underlying figures are calculated at constant exchange rates and exclude the impact Certain statements made in this Annual Report are forward looking statements.
Such statements are of the July 2002 acquisition of the operations of Burberrys distributor in Korea based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause the Korea acquisition.
actual results to differ materially from any expected future results in forward looking statements.
EBITA represents operating profit before interest, taxation, goodwill amortisation This report does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose and exceptional items.
of any Burberry Group plc shares.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent financial adviser.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 3 Despite a challenging operating environment, Burberry delivered BURBERRY HAS revenue and profit after tax before IPO related charges growth of 14% 15% underlying and 32%, respectively, for the year to March 2004 while maintaining excellent returns on capital.
The total dividend for COMPLETED the year increased 50%.
This performance stands out among luxury goods companies.
ANOTHER Over the past five years, the Burberry brand has been transformed EXCELLENT YEAR from a traditional outerwear label to a premier international luxury brand distinguished by its accessible positioning, multi-generational appeal and AND LOOKS TO British sensibility.
The business has evolved from its former dependence on a narrow range of products and third-party licensees and distributors THE FUTURE WITH to an integrated organisation led by broad product development expertise and direct retail and wholesale operations.
CONFIDENCE AS I continue to be impressed by the brand and the business that has been built around it, but my enthusiasm for these past accomplishments is WE CONTINUE TO exceeded by my optimism for the future.
Burberry has not only delivered excellent results, but has established an effective platform from which to BUILD LONG TERM capitalise on the additional possibilities for the brand in new and existing product categories, distribution channels and geographic regions.
VALUE FOR OUR Guiding this development has been an outstanding group of people.
SHAREHOLDERS The brands intrinsic prospects would have remained dormant if not for the vision and dedication of the talented management team and employees throughout the global organisation.
As in the past, these JOHN PEACE qualities were very much apparent this year.
On behalf of all shareholders, I congratulate the entire team at Burberry for their achievements.
CHAIRMAN The year also brought key management additions and changes.
Michael Metcalf, Burberrys former CFO and COO, and Thomas ONeill, former President Worldwide, have chosen to pursue new career opportunities.
With Burberry for six years, Mike was integral to shaping the Groups new strategy and establishing the infrastructure to support a global business.
Tom, at Burberry for over two years, played a vital role in the integration of Burberrys Asian operations.
I thank both Mike and Tom for their contributions to the Group and wish them well in their new positions.
At the same time, I welcome Stacey Cartwright, a highly experienced financial executive as CFO, and Brian Blake, an accomplished luxury goods executive, as President and COO.
I look forward to working with them both in the years ahead.
Burberry has completed another excellent year and looks to the future with confidence as we continue to build long term value for our Shareholders.
John Peace Chairman Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 5 Strategic progress BURBERRY CONTINUES Key strategic highlights include: TO DELIVER STRONG Products Burberrys product design, development and merchandising teams achieved exciting results during the year.
RESULTS REFLECTING The brands transformation from a traditional rainwear manufacturer to a style and luxury leader continued at pace.
Under the direction THE STRENGTH of Creative Director Christopher Bailey, the Group achieved greater cohesion across the womens, mens and accessory product lines and OF OUR STRATEGY, further developed Burberrys distinctive design vocabulary including colour, pattern and thematic detail.
The successful linking of the THE SUSTAINED EFFORTS brands history to the present is well demonstrated by the selection of Burberry Prorsums autumn winter 2004 womens collection as OF THE TALENTED one of the 10 best of the season by Womens Wear Daily, a leading fashion industry publication.
MANAGEMENT TEAM Womenswear led category development for the year.
Its strong performance was driven by the continued creation of an outstanding AND THE BALANCE OF fashion offering in combination with a range of modern classic lifestyle products including outerwear, designed for a multi-generational THE BUSINESS ACROSS customer base.
Burberrys pink trench coat, introduced last autumn in support of breast cancer research, received particularly wide recognition and preceded the prominence of the colour pink and the trench coat PRODUCTS, CHANNELS revival throughout the industry during the following spring.
This product successfully increased awareness for an important social cause, raised AND REGIONS funds to support critical research and highlights both Burberrys heritage and design innovation.
ROSE MARIE BRAVO The planned diversification of Burberrys accessories offering from classical to contemporary styled products progressed with important CHIEF EXECUTIVE successes in the year.
In handbags, Burberry introduced the contemporarystyled leather Shackle collection to favourable consumer response.
Candy Check, a pink adaptation of Burberrys iconic pattern, was successfully offered across a range of handbags and other accessories.
Maintaining the momentum, menswear continued to advance in the period.
The Group capitalised on the ongoing return to sartorial dressing in menswear with expanded offerings in tailored clothing, shirts and accessories.
Reinforcing Burberrys outerwear authority, menswear successfully introduced important updated silhouettes and styles across the category.
The intensification of classification Burberrys performance for the year to March 2004 was excellent.
businesses also continued with added depth in key categories The business delivered strong results and continued strategic progress and expanded use of luxury fabrics.
notwithstanding the challenging operating environment globally.
Diluted EPS before goodwill amortisation, exceptional gain and IPO related Channels The Group continued to execute its core retail, wholesale charges increased 28% on a 14% revenue gain while management and licensing strategies.
successfully strengthened the product line, refined and expanded distribution and continued to develop targeted regions.
This performance Investment in retail growth continued on plan.
The Group opened reflects the sustained efforts of the talented management team and the nine new stores in the year, including Burberry stores in the US 3, balance of Burberrys business across products, channels and regions.
Europe 1 and Asia 4, as well as one outlet store, and four Turnover by product category 2003 04 total: 675.8m Womenswear 33% 225.7m Menswear 28% 190.1m Accessories 28% 189.0m Licence 10% 67.0m Other 1% 4.0m Includes childrens 8 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 concessions, resulting in a 12% selling space increase.
The Milan was boosted by a rapid rebound in the Hong Kong market following store opening was a retail highlight of the year.
Located in the centre the external shocks early in the year a rebound in part fuelled by of this fashion capital, the store, Burberrys first in Italy, presents the visitors from China as well as strong demand within China.
Korea complete revitalised Burberry brand to the global fashion community was adversely affected by a difficult economic and consumer credit and this important local market.
The store has had a positive impact environment throughout the year.
on the wholesale business in Italy.
In Japan, Burberry continued its long term brand enhancement In wholesale, Burberry continued to concentrate on key accounts, activities.
During the year, the Group assumed the role of directly add doors selectively in developed markets and utilise the channel as managing and monitoring the non-apparel licensees in this market.
a primary means to address emerging markets.
Among key accounts in Over the past 18 months, several licences have either expired or developed markets, Burberry continued to improve in-store positioning, been cancelled and the Group is selectively working with existing add floor space and enhance merchandising.
In European markets, licensees to upgrade products and distribution.
In early April 2004, Burberry capitalised on the brands increased visibility by selectively the Groups partners in Japan opened a Burberry store featuring adding high-profile fashion retailers to its account base.
In emerging the brands Prorsum and international London collections in Tokyos markets, the Group worked with its wholesale partners to build local fashionable Omotesando district.
This new store, and the extensive brand recognition and sales.
In China, for example, where sales grew media campaign which accompanied the opening, is an important substantially in the year, Burberry worked with local partners to component of Burberrys brand management activities in this market.
open six additional points of sale for a current total of 28 stores and concessions during the year.
Through a local partner, the Group Looking ahead to 2004 05 opened the first Burberry store in Russia Moscow in February 2004.
In line with the ongoing execution of our core growth strategies, Burberrys plans for 2004 05 include the following highlights: In licensing, Burberry Brit for women was the years highlight.
Among the most successful fragrance introductions of the year, The opening of seven new stores and concessions, including the Burberry Brit was launched worldwide following its autumn 2003 addition of our second store in Italy, on Via Condotti in Rome, during introduction in the US and UK.
Burberry Brits extensive media autumn 2004 campaign, global distribution and success among a broad range The completion of a number of significant store renovations, including of consumers brought important perception and awareness the re-opening or our prominent San Francisco store this autumn benefits to the Burberry brand broadly.
Continued penetration of emerging markets, including the addition Regions Burberry continued to increase the brands penetration across of six new points of sale in China targeted regions, extending its global reach.
On a constant currency An increase in our marketing budget to support the exciting basis, the Group achieved solid growth across the US 26%, Europe autumn winter 2004 collections 10% and Asia Pacific 17%.
The autumn launch of Burberry Brit for men as a complement to the In the US, the Group added stores in Houston, Las Vegas and highly successful womens fragrance Tysons Corner Virginia and continued to work with leading wholesale customers to build Burberrys presence in this substantial and under Continued brand enhancement initiatives in Japan penetrated market.
Important renovations, including the Manhasset New York store expansion, were also completed during the year.
The success achieved by Burberry in the year completed reflects the The US business achieved strong sales gains throughout the year.
dedication of our management and employees, the commitment of our licensees and the support of our wholesale customers.
Together, we look Europes performance varied by market.
The UK generally remained forward to the current financial year with confidence as we continue to soft with improving trends late in the year.
Benefiting from the ongoing pursue our proven strategies, maximise growth opportunities and ensure initiatives to upgrade distribution in Continental Europe, the Group long term shareholder value.
generally achieved strong gains across the region.
Continuing to build the brands presence in Italy, Burberry finalised plans to open a store in Rome in autumn 2004.
In Spain, sales growth resumed, reflecting the successful repositioning efforts in that market.
Burberry opened stores in Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, Melbourne and Singapore, underscoring the brands opportunities in Asia outside of Rose Marie Bravo Japan.
In addition to the impact of these new stores, regional growth Chief Executive Turnover by channel of distribution Turnover by geographic destination 2003 04 total: 675.8m 2003 04 total: 675.8m Wholesale 52% 351.4m Europe 51% 346.8m Retail 38% 257.4m North America 24% 162.4m Licence 10% 67.0m Asia Pacific 24% 162.6m Other 1% 4.0m Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 9
