BURBERRY 2003 04 YEAR AT A GLANCE BURBERRY 2003 04 Expansion in Asia continued with the opening of new stores in Hong Kong, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Melbourne, Australia.
Apr 03 May 03 Jun 03 Launched in April 2003, the new Burberry Prorsum is presented on The Burberry Prorsum show for Burberry Timepiece Collection is the catwalk to international press and spring summer 2004 featured the Swiss made and distributed through buyers in Milan four times a year.
exclusive appearance of Kate Moss.
our own stores as well as leading speciality stores worldwide.
Mainland China saw the opening of six additional Burberry points of sale bringing the total to 28 in the region.
The Thomas Burberry range for young The opening of the Milan store, Burberrys men and women was re-introduced in the first in Italy, provided a stunning showcase UK and Spain in autumn winter 2003. in which to present the brands complete offering to this important market as well as the global fashion community.
Jul 03 Aug 03 Sep 03 The borders of the autumn winter 2003 Burberry Brit, the new fragrance for The Burberry Brit launch was supported ad campaign heralded the success of colour women which debuted in autumn 2003, by extraordinary editorial coverage and across all product ranges.
is the brands most successful fragrance an iconic advertising campaign featured launch to date.
in both print and outdoor media.
Our marketing strategy communicates the brands unique mix of modern design and British heritage.
Across wholesale channels, the continued roll out of our shop-in-shop concept enhanced our positioning with premier retailers globally.
Oct 03 Nov 03 Dec 03 The opening of a store in the Arraya The Art of the Trench made-to-order service The Shackle Collection, a new design shopping mall in Kuwait expanded first introduced last year in New York group of handbags and shoes introduced Burberrys presence in the Middle East.
and London is now available in Chicago, in spring summer 2004, garnered strong Milan and Tokyo.
30% of worldwide sales of our Passion The launch of the Candy Check accessories Pink Trench Coat was donated to breast range was well received for the gift-giving cancer charities.
season and continues to be a strong seller going forward.
The Burberry Prorsum womens February 2004 saw Burberrys entry to collection for autumn winter 2004 was the Russian market with our first store heralded by leading fashion publication in Moscow, located in the prestigious Womens Wear Daily as one of the 10 Stoleshnikov district.
best collections of the season.
Jan 04 Feb 04 Mar 04 The spring summer 2004 advertising Advertising images in mens Throughout the year in the US region, campaign underscored the use of colour publications reinforced the brands retail expansion continued with new and pattern in the collections as well heritage in tailoring and focused store openings in Las Vegas, Houston, as Burberrys cross-generational appeal.
on the return to sartorial dressing.
A signature floral print created for spring In March 2004, the Burberry childrens summer 2004 apparel and accessories collection was introduced in Korea is emblematic of Burberrys design ethos through signature shops within two of colour, texture and pattern.
