CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report that the performance of the Group during The acquisition of Mortgage Trust at a significant discount to net Prospects for the private rented sector Board composition the year ended 30 September 2004 was exceptionally strong, assets has provided a new profit stream for the Group in the core The succession of interest rate increases by the Monetary Policy In October 2003, as referred to in my statement last year, we evidenced by the growth seen in lending volumes and profits.
buy-to-let area of our business activities.
The rapid and successful Committee over the past year appears to have had the desired appointed two new executive directors, John Heron and Pawan turnaround of this business has added significant value for Profit before tax increased by 36.8% to 71.0 million for the year, effect on the housing market.
At the same time the need for Pandya.
John Heron is responsible for the Groups first mortgages shareholders.
Looking forward, we shall continue to seek compared with 51.9 million for the previous year and earnings per intermediaries and lenders to meet the requirements of the new division, encompassing Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage Trust, acquisition opportunities to supplement organic business flows.
share increased by 35.2% to 48.0p from 35.5p.
Mortgage Trust mortgage regulations from 1 November 2004 has diverted attention and joined the Group in 1986.
He is a member of the Executive formerly Britannic Money which was acquired in June 2003, is away from business generation.
Evidence of slower activity and of Committee of the Council of Mortgage Lenders.
now fully integrated and contributed 15.1 million to profits before softer prices has been well documented.
Less well covered has Staff Pawan Pandya joined the Group in 1988 and was appointed Chief taxation for the year 2003: 1.2 million loss after a credit of 5.2 been evidence of the consequential improvement in demand for Operating Officer in 2002.
He is responsible for all loan The excellent progress we have made during the year would not million in respect of the amortisation of negative goodwill 2003: rented accommodation, with surveys from RICS, ARLA and, indeed, administration and processing, collections and Group technology.
have been achieved without the hard work and dedication of our 2.1 million.
Paragon Mortgages reporting increasing tenant demand, reducing staff and my fellow directors.
I thank them all for their efforts.
In September 2004 we were pleased to welcome Bob Dench to the stocks of unlet property and improving rents.
These are all factors In view of these strong results and consistent with our intention to Board as an independent non-executive director.
Bob previously which underpin the credit quality of buy-to-let lending.
reduce dividend cover progressively towards the sector norm, your held various senior positions with Barclays where, following a Board has declared an increased final dividend of 5.7p per share It seems likely that we are at or near the peak of the present number of overseas appointments, he returned to the UK and which, when added to the interim dividend of 3.9p paid on 2 July, interest rate cycle, with a number of economists suggesting that served on the boards of Barclays Retail Financial Services and gives a total dividend of 9.6p per share for the year, an increase of rates could begin to fall next year.
It is, however, too early to say Private Client businesses.
He played a leading role in Barclays Jonathan P L Perry 52.4% over last year.
Subject to approval at the Annual General whether the slowing housing activity will lead to a soft or a hard acquisition of Woolwich plc and in recent years was Managing Meeting on 9 February, the dividend will be paid on 11 February Chairman landing for house prices and this uncertainty is weighing down Director of Barclays General Insurance, Life and Mortgage 2005, by reference to a record date of 14 January 2005. sentiment for housing.
Whilst we have seen a strong start to the businesses before leaving the organisation in 2003.
Bob is a nonnew financial year, the impact of this sentiment on buy-to-let executive director of AXA UK plc and of Clipper Ventures plc.
15 December 2004 activity over the coming months remains to be seen.
Business review and strategy Despite some speculation to the contrary, we have seen no In keeping with our previously stated strategy of focusing our Outlook evidence of buy-to-let investors disposing of their properties in activity primarily on more defensive product areas such as buy-toresponse to house price uncertainty.
Indeed, our experience of buyThe Group has had an outstanding year.
Volumes and profits have let and secured personal loans, 93.2% of our lending during the to-let loans having a lower redemption rate than owner-occupied continued to increase strongly, arrears performance has remained year was secured on residential property.
This compares with mortgages has continued.
In addition, survey data has confirmed in accordance with plan and the integration of Mortgage Trust, 87.8% in the previous year.
We shall continue to follow this strategy, the view that the majority of landlords in the buy-to-let market take which traded profitably during the year, has been completed.
The maintaining our strong stance on credit quality.
a long-term view of their investment portfolios.
opening pipeline is up year on year and trading activity since the I reported last year on the acquisition of Britannic Money, now year end has been in line with our expectations.
In the longer term, we remain convinced that the prospects for the renamed Mortgage Trust, in June 2003.
Since the acquisition, the private rented sector remain strong, with demographic factors There is little doubt that the housing market has started to soften business has been successfully turned from loss making into profit.
contributing to increasing demand for tenanted accommodation.
and the prospect for house prices has become uncertain.
Whilst the In addition to the re-focusing of new business activity mentioned in We note that it was during the last significant housing slowdown, fundamentals remain strong for the landlord, how this uncertainty the Chief Executives Review, which has improved the profitability of in the early 1990s, that the private rented sector saw its largest will affect landlords buying decisions in the short-term is difficult new advances, a significant operational restructuring has resulted increase in rental units.
Further, recent research by Mintel found to predict.
Should there be a deterioration in market conditions, we in substantial cost savings.
By combining support functions and that 3.3 million people are considering purchasing buy-to-let are confident that the robustness of our business model, with the relocating administration activities to our operational centre in properties over the next twelve months, whilst 75% of existing comparatively low loan to value ratio across our buy-to-let portfolio, Solihull, staff at Mortgage Trusts Epsom office have been reduced landlords are expecting to rent out more property in the next the high rental cover and direct landlord obligation, will ensure that from 247 at the time of the acquisition to 86 at 30 September 2004. decade.
The attractiveness of buy-to-let as an investment may be this portfolio will outperform other residential mortgage portfolios, further enhanced when residential property becomes eligible for in particular owner-occupied residential mortgage portfolios.
inclusion in Self Invested Personal Pension schemes from April 2006.
4 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 5
