Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 2 Financial Highlights The selected financial data set out on the following pages is derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 68 to 127 and as such should be read in conjunction with them.
Certain trends within the financial data presented below have been impacted by business acquisitions and disposals, the most significant of which are described in Business Overview History and Development of Company.
Where appropriate, balances have been restated to reflect the adoption of changes in accounting standards as described in note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, on the basis set out in note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which differ in certain significant respects from US GAAP.
For further details, see note 36 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, US GAAP information.
Solely for convenience, amounts represented below in dollars have been translated at $1.8400: 1, the Noon Buying Rate on 31 March 2004.
2 See note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Loss per share.
Earnings per ADS is calculated by multiplying earnings per ordinary share by ten, the number of ordinary shares per ADS.
Dividend per ADS is calculated similarly.
EPS and dividend information has been restated for the capitalisation bonus issue on 30 September 1999.
3 The final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2004 was proposed by the directors on 25 May 2004.
4 For the purposes of calculating these ratios, earnings consist of income on ordinary activities before taxation, adjusted for fixed charges, dividend income from associated undertakings, share of profits and losses from associated undertakings and profits and losses on ordinary activities before taxation from discontinued operations.
Fixed charges comprise one-third of payments under operating leases, representing the interest element of these payments, interest payable and similar charges and preferred share dividends.
