02 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Slough Estates at a glance We are committed to providing flexible business space to clients across a broad range of business sectors.
Slough Estates is a property Slough Estates business space The Company was founded in 1920 at investments are mainly within business Slough and today its largest business park, investment and development parks in what have been identified to the Slough Trading Estate, still remains its company, which is domiciled be the locations with the best long-term largest single investment representing in the UK with a listing on the economic prospects.
Such centres have 29.8 per cent of the portfolio.
The Slough London Stock Exchange.
large, well-educated populations, a skilled Trading Estate is a unique business park workforce, good infrastructure and the of 500 acres in single ownership, close The Group develops and invests capital base to ensure the long-term such to Londons Heathrow Airport and with in property located in Western prosperity for the region.
Such regions unrivalled communications by air, road Europe and North America with currently include, in the UK, the Thames or rail.
The Estate is home to some 400 over 80 per cent of its assets Valley, the M3 corridor and Cambridge.
tenants covering almost every sector.
In Continental Europe, greater Brussels, Such a large estate brings continual being invested in edge of town Paris and the Ruhr in Germany.
In redevelopment opportunities and 24 per flexible business space.
California, South San Francisco and San cent of the Estate has been built within Diego.
The company continually reviews the last 10 years.
the prospects in new regions and currently is looking at the opportunities to grow the Historically, Slough Estates has made business in Continental Europe.
its best returns from development and therefore the Company continues to hold In total the Group has some 1,700 a substantial land bank.
This land will be customers and this brings an unrivalled developed when market conditions are diversification of risk, as the top 20 favourable.
The main land bank is located customers account for only 27 per cent at Farnborough and Cambridge in the UK, of total annualised rent.
Rental income at Pegasus Park near Brussels and in from this wide customer base is the South San Francisco and San Diego main source of income for the Group and in the US.
currently brings an annualised income of 245 million per annum and on average there is a weighted average unexpired lease term, assuming that breaks are exercised at the first opportunity, of 9.8 years.
This ensures excellent security of income for the Group for many years.
The Group is financed conservatively in order to reduce long-term financing risks with a weighted average maturity of borrowings of 9.7 years at an average interest cost of 6.41 per cent so providing certainty of finance.
Further, some 81 per cent of the debt has fixed rates of interest so protecting the company against any upward movements in interest rates.
Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 03 North America: UK: Continental Europe: 372,036 sq.
m. principally life science 2,126,147 sq.
m. principally flexible business facilities in south San Francisco and business space at Slough, Winnersh space in Brussels and the Ile fide France.
