DMG Broadcasting: Television During the year Teletext has made substantial 19m investment in its platforms, putting the company in a strong position to continue to grow audiences Over 19 million people and revenues via the web and digital TV.
use Teletext services every week.
01 Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMG Broadcasting: Radio In the most recently released independent listener No.
1 station for the under 40s in every market in which it was surveyed.
Nova is also Nova stations are the No.
1 commercial FM station in Australias two the No.
1 choice for all largest markets of Sydney and Melbourne.
02 Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGInformation Landmark Information Group enjoyed a successful 20% year.
The need to consider environmental factors when buying property was increasingly recognised Environmental report by the market and Landmarks mapping and GIS sales in the UK grew services also experienced healthy levels of growth.
03 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Euromoney Institutional Investor Euromoney had its best September issue for 1 0% five years and Institutional Investor increased its advertising revenues in 2004.
Euromoney Institutional Investor increased its revenues by 10%.
04 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Associated Newspapers Associated Newspapers achieved record profits, with 16.7% the Daily Mail and The Mail on Sunday once again outperforming markets in overall decline.
The Daily The Mail on Sunday Mail achieved market share growth of 0.42% the achieved its highest ever highest of any national newspaper.
05 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe Newspapers Northcliffe's paid-for evening titles have increased 5% their unduplicated weekly readership by 5% over the last three years, bucking the industry trend.
Northcliffe Newspapers Northcliffes evening titles now reach 7 in 10 adults evening newspaper at least once a week.
Source: TNS Media 2000-2003 Base: All Adults in 10% circulation areas.
06 Daily Mail and General Trust plc dmg world media We create vibrant marketplaces that bring people 300 together to do business.
We also produce more than 65 related magazines, newspapers, directories, dmg world media and its market reports and industry databases to support partners organise more than our customers around the world.
07 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
