THINK INTERNATIONAL CZECH REPUBLIC DENMARK FINLAND FRANCE HUNGARY ICELAND IRELAND ITALY NORWAY SPAIN SWEDEN UK Average Selling space selling area Sales Stores 000 sq ft per store sq ft Employees www.
co. uk 1,327m 138 2,243 16,254 5,607 The UKs biggest chain of computer superstores.
com 205m 531 Direct sales of computer products and services to UK businesses and the public sector.
se The specialist Italy: 3 53 17,667 97 computer superstore chain trading in Sweden: 1 19 19,000 34 Spain, France, Italy and Sweden.
co. uk 407m 288 273 948 2,382 The UK specialist retailer for communication products and services.
co. uk Communications Direct sales of mobile phones and services to UK businesses.
Irelands leading 72m 15 159 10,600 468 Ireland electrical retailer trading as Dixons, Currys and PC World.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 03 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE SUCCESS OF OUR ESTABLISHED BUSINESSES BOTH IN THE UK AND ON THE CONTINENT NOW ENABLES THE GROUPS TRANSITION TO A TRULY EUROPEAN BUSINESS BENEFITING FROM SCALE.
delivery of good customer service.
Every week our employees, from Aberdeen to Penzance, from Dublin to Budapest, deliver high levels of satisfaction to millions of customers.
At our best we provide an unrivalled service, supported by innovations which include 24 7 diagnostic helplines and PC Clinics.
Our challenge is to ensure that we are equally as alert and responsive on those relatively few occasions when a customer feels less than satisfied.
In December we received the Competition Commissions report on extended warranties.
SIR JOHN COLLINS Chairman Whilst regulatory intervention is never welcome, we were pleased to see that, in large part, the remedies We continue to pursue our clearly defined strategy to proposed reflect the Groups best practices in the maintain the profitable growth of our UK businesses promotion and sale of service contracts.
We are whilst expanding into selected European markets.
now able to plan, with confidence, the development of our service offerings which are an integral Last year I shared with you the launch of a Groupfeature of our specialist position in the marketplace.
wide programme, Being the Best.
It requires us to: A prerequisite of a successful retail business is operate with integrity: to keep it simple.
This, coupled with the Groups give outstanding service: increasingly European dimension, has led John Clare and his executive team to restructure the Group respect our colleagues: and through a series of step changes.
These are explained seek continually to improve performance.
in the Chief Executives Review.
I am confident they will assist in our effective transformation from a Our ultimate objective is to ensure that through the UK into a truly European Group and sharpen our application of these key ingredients, we outperform cutting edge through greater accountability for our competitors in all our markets and provide our results, simplified organisation and processes, and customers with the optimum shopping experience.
the encouragement of enterprise and decisiveness.
This programme has gained considerable It is my expectation that they will also assist us in momentum through the year.
Independent surveys our career development and succession planning, help us identify our strengths and weaknesses and two subjects high on my agenda.
highlight where improvement is needed.
Execution I would like to share with you two examples of the is truly Dixonian in style: totally practical!
many successful HR initiatives under way throughout Our assumptions are that the fiercely competitive the Group.
The number of staff movements between nature of our markets will intensify and that chains and companies in the last year was over 500. increasing choice will make customers even more This is a good indicator of the development of talent discerning.
Sales through the internet and other through offering differing work experiences and emerging channels of distribution will steadily of the growing internationalisation of the Group increase.
Therefore, we remain in pole position through inter country moves.
Secondly, our executive to capitalise on the Groups traditional strengths development programme, now in its fourth year, superlative product ranges and outstanding value is proving to be an outstanding management for money and we must ensure the consistent development tool for high potential employees.
04 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 The restructuring of the Board I outlined in my last we acquired at the beginning of June 2004 to report was completed in the summer of 2003 with augment our successful PC World Business formula.
the appointment of Rita Clifton as a non-executive We believe strongly in corporate social responsibility director.
Apart from me, the Board now comprises and in respect for the environment.
In fact, in four independent non-executive directors and three a previous incarnation I was privileged to chair executive directors.
Andrew Lynch has recently been a government committee that pioneered new designated as our Senior Independent Director.
Our environmental standards for industry in the corporate governance structure measures up to all UK.
I come from the school that believes these the key Higgs principles.
Our first evaluation of the responsibilities should be integral to the way we Boards performance was undertaken last year on do business, demonstrated in daily practice, rather a self-assessment basis with external guidance.
than being treated as discrete activities.
This is the This project was constructive and worthwhile and Groups approach and continuous improvement is the we are currently conducting formal appraisals of goal.
Whilst we are happy to have our card marked each director including the Chairman!
independently, we are determined that this should Mark Souhami stepped down from the Board in not in itself become a bureaucratic enterprise.
We September and retired from the Group at the year adopt a similar attitude to corporate governance.
Mark was alongside Stanley Kalms in creating In these and other areas I share my predecessors this great company.
Together they demonstrated a concern over the debilitating effects on enterprise level of flair and enterprise that is a lesson to us all.
of the seemingly unstoppable flow of regulation We were delighted to learn of Sir Stanleys recent and red tape which assails all businesses, both elevation to the peerage.
This further recognition big and small.
of our Presidents major contribution to business The Dixons Foundation, of which I am now and public life is justly deserved and we can take Chairman, continues to invest almost 1 million pride and pleasure on his ennoblement.
On behalf a year in good causes ranging from support for of shareholders, I extend our congratulations to people with disabilities to education to health.
Through our Community Investment Programme After four and a half years with the Group, the last many of our employees participate in a variety two of them as a very effective Finance Director, of fund raising and volunteering activities.
Jeremy Darroch has decided to take up a similar On behalf of the Board I thank all our employees role with BSkyB.
We shall miss his professional throughout the Group, now numbering over 38,000, and assiduous contribution.
I am pleased to be able for their commitment and endeavours.
I share their to welcome Kevin OByrne to the Board in his place.
determination to do even better next year and every In December we sold Codic, our European Property year so as to be and remain the best.
Whilst it had been a steady profit earner for the Group, it had become something of an anomaly in the context of our business model and strategic direction.
I thank Codics highly talented management team for their contribution to the Group over the SIR JOHN COLLINS years and wish them well under their new owners.
Chairman I welcome our new colleagues to the Group including the employees of MicroWarehouse UK, the business to business supplier of computer products, which DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 05
