Euromoney Institutional Investor is a leading international business to business publisher, focused primarily on international finance.
It publishes more than 100 magazines, newsletters and journals as well as research, directories, books and maps.
It also runs conferences, seminars and training courses and is a provider of electronic business information through its capital market databases and emerging markets information service.
ACTIVITIES Financial Publishing a wide range of courses for the audit and information Financial publishing includes an extensive portfolio of titles security market.
covering the international capital markets as well as a number of specialist financial titles.
Products include magazines, Conferences and Seminars newsletters, journals, surveys and research, directories and The company runs a large number of conferences for the books.
A selection of the companys leading brands includes: international financial markets, mostly under the Euromoney Euromoney, Institutional Investor, Euroweek, Latin Finance, and Institutional Investor brands.
Many of these conferences Asiamoney, Global Investor, Corporate Finance, Project are the leading annual events in their sector and provide Finance and the hedge fund titles EuroHedge, InvestHedge, sponsors with a high quality program and speakers, and AsiaHedge, Absolute Return and Alpha.
The Global Borrowers and Investors Forum and International Bond Congress are Business Publishing two examples of leading events in the financial sector.
In the The business publishing division produces specialist energy sector, the group runs the worlds leading annual coal magazines and other publications covering legal, energy, conference, Coaltrans: and MIS runs the leading event for the pharmaceuticals and travel.
Its leading brands include: information security sector in the US, InfoSec World.
In 2004 International Financial Law Review, International Tax Review, the company acquired Information Management Network Managing Intellectual Property, Petroleum Economist, World which is the market leader in events for the securitization Oil, Hydrocarbon Processing, Med Ad News, R&D Directions, and indexing sectors.
Duty Free News International, and Business Traveller.
Databases and Information Services Training The company provides a number of database products for The Training businesses run an extensive range of banking, financial markets, mostly run as joint ventures with its finance and legal courses, both public and in-house, under AIM-listed partner, Dealogic.
In addition, the companys the Euromoney and DC Gardner brands.
Courses are run all US subsidiary, Internet Securities, Inc, provides the worlds over the world for both financial institutions and corporates.
most comprehensive service for news on data on global In addition, the companys Boston-based subsidiary, MIS, runs emerging markets.
Turnover m Adjusted diluted earnings per share Pence 04 174.7 26.7 04 03 158.9 03 20.5 Operating profit m CHANGE 10% CHANGE 30% 04 20.5 03 7.4 Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items m CHANGE 177% Dividend Pence 28.0 15.0 04 04 03 21.3 03 14.75 CHANGE 31% CHANGE 2% Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 01
