06 01 Keeping Chairmans statement Financial and operational highlights our cool The safety and security of passengers and and goodwill amortisation, have again increased In March, we announced a number of changes Turnover up 8% to 2,479m with strong underlying cash generation that to simplify reporting lines and strengthen the staff is of paramount importance to the has enabled us to invest a net 197m in the Board by the appointment of Dean Finch as Group.
Buses and trains remain among the 1 business through capital expenditure and Commercial Director and David Leeder as safest methods of surface transport, and Adjusted earnings per share up 2% to 27.3p acquisitions whilst continuing with our Director, UK Bus.
Dr Mike Mitchell, previously we will strive to ensure that we use every progressive dividend policy and share buy Chief Operating Officer UK, becomes Business opportunity to improve our performance Dividend per share up 6% to 11.65p back programme.
Change Director and will step down from the wherever possible.
Board later in the year prior to his retirement in The new cooler units we fitted on our Turnover has increased to 2,479m 2003: 2005.
Iain Lanaghan, currently Finance Director, I am pleased to report another year of excellent Group return on capital employed 12% First Great Western fleet of High Speed 2,291m and profit before tax, goodwill will step down from the Board at the end of progress across all divisions.
All of our new Trains HSTs ensured that both our amortisation and exceptional items increased May and will leave the Group later in the year.
businesses have performed ahead of our 1 engines and our passengers remained North America US Dollar operating profit to 161.3m 2003: 159.8m.
This result is He will be succeeded by Dean Finch.
I would cool, despite soaring temperatures expectations confirming our ability to make impressive, as we have absorbed some 32m like to thank Mike and Iain for their contribution last summer.
This, together with earnings enhancing acquisitions and integrate up 15% strong growth continues of additional costs and subsidy reductions in to the Group and wish them every success for improvements in our maintenance and manage new businesses effectively.
Adjusted basic earnings the future.
systems, ensured that we achieved turnover and profit before tax, exceptional items record levels of service reliability, giving per share has increased to 27.3p 2003: 26.8p UK Bus revenue up 5.4% further growth a new lease of life to the HST units, and the Board has proposed a final dividend, We have a strong and dedicated workforce and in London and urban areas which continue to be the most subject to approval by shareholders, of 7.9p once again I would like to thank them for their successful diesel trains ever produced, making a full year payment of 11.65p, an hard work and commitment delivering another and form the backbone of our First increase of 6%.
The dividend is covered 1.9 set of good results for the Group.
UK Rail First Great Western passenger Great Western fleet.
times and will be paid on 27 August 2004 to shareholders on the register on 23 July 2004.
We will continue to increase shareholder value income up 8% by expanding our businesses in North America 2004 2003 The Groups strong financial position is and the UK through a combination of organic underpinned by an investment grade BBB growth and acquisitions.
We are extremely Yellow school buses are part of the Group turnover m 2,479.0 2,291.0 stable credit rating from Standard & Poors.
pleased with the performance of our North fabric of society in North America.
1 Seeing the Group operating profit m 204.1 216.1 In December we successfully issued a 250m American operations and confident about the A tried and tested product which 1 parents know they can rely on to 15-year bond, which was substantially prospects for growth in this very large and Profit before tax m 161.3 159.8 get their children safely to and from oversubscribed, to improve our debt maturity fragmented market.
Our UK bus business Profit on ordinary activities after tax m 92.2 97.6 school.
We are the second largest profile and reduce bank debt.
The Group now continues to generate significant cash flow 1 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence 27.3 26.8 operator of school buses in North whole picture has, on average, 250m of unutilised bank and we anticipate further growth in London America and now we are bringing borrowing headroom.
Basic earnings per share pence 22.3 23.4 and other cities where we are able to work them to the UK a proven concept Our new integrated control centre at helps to keep trains running on time.
with local authorities to manage traffic Dividend per share pence 11.65 11.0 which can help reduce traffic Swindon not only lets our managers Improved co-ordination means A number of strategic acquisitions and congestion.
In UK Rail, we will continue to bid 2 congestion from the school run and EBITDA m 307.1 315.3 view the status of all the trains in problems can be solved more quickly franchise wins took place during the year which for new franchises in order to create a strong increase the safety and security of the Great Western Zone, but also and passengers are kept informed 3 Interest cover 7.2x 5.6x strengthened the Groups core businesses.
portfolio of railway operations and we are our children.
improves the liaison with Network with up-to-the minute information.
In July we acquired a North American transit encouraged by the opportunities for further Rail and other rail contractors.
By This model can be rolled out to 1 business which complements and extends our expansion in the rail freight market.
Before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and profit on disposal of fixed assets, as shown in the consolidated working together, we are able to deliver improved integration across profit and loss account on page 36 existing operations in this sector.
In August we 2 ensure a seamless operation that other parts of the railway network.
Group operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, plus depreciation acquired GB Railways Group Plc, which gives 3 2 Calculated as EBITDA divided by net interest payable and similar charges before exceptional items us an entry into the growing rail freight market Operating profit m Turnover m through GB Railfreight, and into passenger operations on the East Coast Main Line Martin Gilbert UK Bus 111.2m UK Bus 906.2m through Hull Trains.
On 1 February 2004, we Chairman UK Rail 49.8m UK Rail 945.0m commenced operation of the TransPennine North America 63.5m North America 620.7m Express passenger rail franchise for eight years Operating profit referred to in this statement and with an option to extend for a further five years.
in the Chief Executives review and Financial On 1 April 2004, we took over the franchise to review refers to operating profit before goodwill run suburban services from London amortisation and exceptional items.
Paddington, as First Great Western Link.
Operating profit in UK Rail is stated after charging the finance cost of assets, which is implicit in the operating lease rentals, whereas UK and US Bus operating profits are stated before finance charges.
Interest costs, as disclosed in note 6 to the accounts, were 42.8m.
The future is yellow Get the transforming message No more waiting around at bus stops.
Customers regularly tell us that reliability is one of the most important factors in their journey.
So we are working hard to remove the uncertainty from Fresh travel in public transport.
For example, passengers in the Leicester area can now use their mobile phones to find out when the bus is coming.
By keying in a code, which is displayed at the bus stop, passengers receive a text message within air bus 30 seconds indicating when the next bus is due.
This is just one of the ways we are using Our hydrogen-powered buses, currently new technology to make bus travel easier and being trialled in London, produce just more predictable.
fresh air and water, so we can all breathe 2003 4 more easily.
We are operating three zero emission fuel cell buses in London as part of a trial funded by the EU, the Weve parked People have a choice in how they travel and we largest project of its type anywhere in the world.
This is an important step in want them to choose First.
Our vision is to Transform 3 million cars... the ongoing development of clean urban Travel providing public transport services that are transport combining energy efficiency Our park and ride sites are a huge success.
safe, reliable, high quality, personal and accessible.
3 million cars use our park and ride facilities in cities such as Leeds, York, Aberdeen, Bristol, Norwich, Stoke and Bath.
The four sites we serve in York are Here we outline some of the initiatives, including First PD Blue used by over one million cars per year and in the city, we have seen passenger growth of up to 40% on Supermarket new technology, that we have introduced to transform Todays police patrol car is a strobe lighting we provide individual routes.
Initiatives such as these are travel for our customers and continuously improve mobile state of the art crimea one stop shop for Police tackling the problem of traffic congestion and fighting machine.
First Services, Departments in places such as of course help provide a better environment and the services we operate.
through its acquisition of L&E Washington and Massachusetts.
safeguard our historic city centres.
on rails Mobile, adds value in more ways We keep their vehicles on the than one.
By installing high tech road, so they can keep crime Keeping prices low is part of ASDAs culture equipment such as on-board off the streets.
and we are delighted to be able to help Britains computers, radar, cameras and best value retailer with a contract to move over 2,000 containers a year.
The deal to move freight from Felixstowe to the Midlands is the open up to read more first ASDA has struck directly with a rail freight company and was won by GB Railfreight because of its innovative approach to moving traffic off the road and onto the rails.
So, its right for ASDA and right for the environment.
Getting the green Access light for buses Ultimate safety all areas New bus priority lanes and guided busways enable buses to get through All our new trains and buses offer easy congestion meaning shorter, more access and facilities for disabled travellers, reliable journeys for our passengers.
weapon passengers with buggies, children and heavy In major cities such as Aberdeen, shopping.
Our new buses are low floor and Bradford, Bristol, Glasgow, Leeds, The stop sign on our yellow school bus means just that.
some even kneel to give curb level access.
Manchester and York we have worked Car drivers know they must respect it in the name of On our new trains we have spacious toilet in partnership with local authorities safety: and safety is our business across all of our facilities providing easy access for wheelchair to introduce traffic priority measures, operations in the UK and North America.
It is the first item bound passengers, as well as secure baby giving our buses the green light to on the agenda at our Board meetings and we have a changing facilities for parents.
Our investment cut through the traffic, speeding our continuous programme to inbed a culture of safe working to improve accessibility to our services means passengers on their way.
It is an on-going task and that we really are opening up public transport we are always working to improve our record.
isnt a word we use when we talk about improving safety.
Get the transforming message No more waiting around at bus stops.
