AUTOMOTIVE GKN operates at the highest levels of the global automotive In recent years GKN has developed an electronics expertise.
supply chain providing a range of geared and mechanical systems This has been fused with its long-standing engineering capability and devices some with electronic control technologies to to develop a new generation of torque management devices the worlds manufacturers of cars, light trucks and construction which are becoming increasingly important as a means to and agricultural vehicles.
improve vehicle traction, stability and comfort.
GKNs position as one of the worlds leading Tier One suppliers GKN is also the worlds No.
1 supplier of powder metal is supported by more than 50 engineering and manufacturing parts and the No.
1 producer of metal powder in the US.
facilities in the Americas, Europe, Africa, India, Asia Pacific GKNs capability in the technology and production of and Japan.
powder metal parts and their raw material is unique among major companies.
GKN is the world leader in constant velocity jointed CVJ sideshafts devices which transmit torque to a vehicles GKN is a major European and North American supplier of wheels and which were fitted to approximately 50 million components and systems for construction and agricultural of all the light vehicles produced in the world in 2004. vehicles and equipment and is also a leading supplier of GKN has around 42% of the global market for CVJ sideshafts.
structural presswork and cylinder liners for automotive, During 2004 GKN launched its third generation CVJs which industrial and marine applications.
Emitec, a 50:50 joint can deliver more torque in a smaller, lighter package a venture with Siemens of Germany, is the world leader in critical benefit to vehicle designers.
metallic substrates for catalytic converters.
4 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004 AEROSPACE Virtually all of the latest Western military aircraft flying today and GKN supplies structures, propulsion systems and special many of the worlds most successful airliners embody technology products to a wide range of military aircraft such as the from GKN either in their airframes or engines or both.
F A-18E F Super Hornet, F A-22 Raptor, F-15K Eagle, C-17 Globemaster 111, C-130J Hercules, Eurofighter Typhoon and And in every important US and European military and civil the Blackhawk, Merlin and Lynx helicopters.
Within the civil aircraft currently under development, GKN technology is making sector it is also a supplier on all Airbus programmes including an important contribution to the achievement of their ultimate the A318 319 320 single aisle family, the A330 and A340 performance goals.
500 600 long-range aircraft and new A380 Super Jumbo.
GKN Aerospace operates from engineering and production GKN is also involved in developing and producing structures facilities in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific.
Its mission and systems for the Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, is to supply engineering design services and high-performance Airbus A400M military airlifter and the Boeing 787 jetliner, composite and metallic alloy structures as well as a range of all of which are currently under development and due to specialist products such as engine nacelles and canopy systems enter service by the end of the decade.
to prime contractors such as Airbus, Boeing, Lockheed Martin and Sikorsky and the jet engine manufacturers General Electric, Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney.
