Operating environment in a constantly evolving environment that creates opportunity and risk With effect from 1 January 2018, as part of the As a transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank with operations US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the federal corporate globally, Barclays is impacted by a wide range of macroeconomic, income tax rate has been reduced from 35% to 21%.
Given the Groups substantial US political, regulatory, accounting, technological and social operations, this tax rate cut materially impacted developments.
The evolving operating environment presents the measurement of Barclays US deferred tax assets, however it will also result in a material opportunities and risks which we continue to evaluate to ensure reduction to the Groups future effective tax that we appropriately adapt our strategy and its delivery.
This Act also introduced the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax BEAT which involves complex provisions with currently uncertain practical and technical application and which may reduce the future benefit of the lower statutory tax rate.
Detailed analysis of our tax can be found in the Annual Report, or in the Country by Country report, both found at home.
com annualreport In addition, from 1 January 2018 the introduction of IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, will see significant changes to the accounting Global growth saw a modest recovery in 2017, The regulatory landscape impacting Barclays for impairment and measurement of expected principally driven by an upswing in Europe and evolved through 2017 and will continue to do credit losses which we discuss further, along Asia.
However, the interest rate environment so in 2018.
The banking industry in the UK has with other significant accounting policies on remained low, albeit with indications of Central continued implementation of measures to pages 241 to 246.
Banks positioning for a tightening cycle.
Notably, meet Structural Reform requirements, which Our operating environment continues to be the Federal Reserve and the Bank of England include the requirement to ring-fence certain influenced by rapid technological change, commenced tightening actions, with an increase activities.
As part of these reforms, Barclays significantly impacting customer expectations in their key policy rate as well as initiation of launched its Group Service Company in and behaviour as well as leading to the ongoing actions to wind-down quantitative easing September 2017.
The implementation of review of established banking operating programmes.
The low interest rate environment Structural Reform and other regulatory models.
We are investing to position our combined with continued low market volatility, changes requires significant focus and we are business at the forefront of this evolving relatively weak consumer confidence and a seeking to minimise disruption to our environment.
New technology is transforming slowing housing market in the UK continued to customers and clients, while executing in the way customers interact with their banks impact banking sector performance by making accordance with regulatory timelines as set and continues to encourage new entrants into income generation more challenging.
Barclays ring-fenced bank the market.
We expect to see these trends will be operational during the first half of 2018, The political environment remained uncertain accelerating in 2018 with the implementation subject to court and regulatory approvals.
globally throughout 2017 with a notable of the Second Payment Services Directive increase in geopolitical tensions.
We remain PSD2 and Open Banking, which will have a vigilant to these risks and their potential impact The banking industry profound impact on the banking landscape by on global trade and investment.
In the UK, the allowing customers to choose to enable third in the UK has continued General Election resulted in a hung Parliament parties to access their data.
Barclays is very while negotiations with the EU on post-Brexit implementation of measures supportive of the opportunities that Open arrangements continue, without full clarity on Banking presents for those who design their to meet Structural Reform the nature of the UKs relationship with the EU propositions and experiences with customers immediately following its exit.
In July, in response requirements, which include at their heart.
However, we are also aware of to the EU referendum outcome, Barclays potential customer concerns regarding data the requirement to ring-fence announced its intention to use an existing security and we continue to work hard to certain activities.
subsidiary in Ireland as its European licensed ensure the safety of customer data.
entity from which to passport financial services across the EU, thereby continuing to serve its customers and clients in the EU post Brexit.
06 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Our Corporate and Investment Bank clients are During 2017 there was further activity to anticipating enhanced electronic capabilities as advance the financial sectors understanding of well as enhanced transparency through the the potential financial, operational and strategic new Markets in Financial Instruments Directive implications of climate change.
Recognition of and Markets in Financial Instruments the commercial, reputational and regulatory Regulation collectively referred to as MiFID II, implications of climate change are shaping the as part of their operating environment.
For way businesses engage with the climate example, recent advances in trading change agenda.
At Barclays, we want to automation continue to change the operating facilitate our stakeholders access to financing landscape through increased experimentation that places green principles at its core.
Please with, and implementation of, solutions relying see the Case Study below for examples of how on machine learning, natural-language we are putting our beliefs into practice.
Developments in the external environment For further information on the changes present both opportunities and risks.
Without in Supervision and Regulation of the active risk management to address these Group, please see page 197. external factors, our long-term goals could be adversely impacted.
We continue to invest in our digital and mobile capabilities to respond to these rapid changes, Our approach to risk management and while maintaining a continued focus on the material existing and emerging risks to risks posed by fraud and social engineering and the Groups future performance are the importance of network defence, cyber risk, outlined in the Risk review section on page 121.
IT security and the appropriate management of our most valuable environments and high risk users in the face of growing cyber threats.
In 2017, we launched #digisafe, a UK-wide consumer engagement campaign to highlight the importance of digital safety, helping people to be more aware of the risks that exist in the digital world and how to be safer online.
Green bonds Barclays green bond is one of a number of innovative green products, launched in 2017, which reinforce Barclays support for, and participation in, the transition to a sustainable and low carbon global economy, following the publication of Barclays Green Bond Framework in September 2017.
In November 2017, Barclays successfully priced and issued a 500m green bond.
This was a milestone for the UK market, being the first green bond issued by a UK bank using UK assets.
Green bonds are fixed income securities, designed to raise finance for assets that have positive environmental and climate benefits.
The proceeds from Barclays green bond have been allocated to the financing and refinancing of Barclays residential mortgages on environmentally friendly homes in England and Wales.
Barclays is a signatory to the Green Bond Principles and an active lead manager of green bond issuances across jurisdictions, issuers and currencies within our investment bank.
Barclays remains firmly committed to contributing to the growth of the green bond market, and has committed to a green bond investment target of 2bn in its Liquidity Portfolio.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 07
