Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Shareholder information Barclays shareholding Annual General Meeting AGM Barclays understands the importance of the This years AGM will be held at the QEII Centre, ordinary dividend for our shareholders.
Barclays Key dates Westminster, London SW1P 3EE, on Tuesday, is therefore committed to maintaining an 5 April 2018 1 May 2018 at 10.00am.
appropriate balance between total cash returns Final dividend payment date to shareholders, investment in the business, The Chairman and Chief Executive will update and maintaining a strong capital position.
26 April 2018 shareholders on our performance in 2017 and Q1 Results Announcement Going forward, Barclays intends to pay an our goals for 2018.
Shareholders will also have annual ordinary dividend that takes into the opportunity to ask the Board questions at 1 May 2018 account these objectives and the medium-term Annual General Meeting, at 10.00am the meeting.
earnings outlook of the Group.
It is also the 17 September 2018 Boards intention to supplement the ordinary You can find out more at dividends with additional returns to Interim dividend payment date home.
barclays agm River Thames shareholders as and when appropriate.
The Board notes that in determining any proposed distributions to shareholders, the Board will consider the expectation of servicing more senior securities.
For 2018, Barclays anticipates resuming a total cash dividend of 6.5p, subject to regulatory approvals.
Green Park How do Barclays shareholders receive their dividends?
As at 31 December 2017, Barclays shareholders St. Jamess Park Waterloo received their dividends in the following ways: Westminster Bridge QEII Centre St. Jamess Park Lambeth North 56.1% Direct to bank account Victoria Street 21.4% Cheque Horseferry Road Lambeth Bridge Victoria 22.5% Scrip dividend programme new shares Keep your personal details up to date Donations to charity Please remember to tell Equiniti if: We launched a Share Dealing Service in you move October 2017 aimed at shareholders with you need to update your bank or building relatively small shareholdings for whom it Save time and receive your dividends faster society details.
might otherwise be uneconomical to deal.
by choosing to have them paid directly into One option open to shareholders was to If you are a Shareview member, you can your bank or building society account donate their sale proceeds to ShareGift.
update your bank or building society account It is easy to set up and your money will be in As a result of this initiative, more than or address details online.
If you hold 2,500 your bank account on the dividend payment 61,000 was donated in 2017, taking the shares or less, you can update details quickly date.
If you hold 2,500 shares or less, you can total donated since 2015 to over 299,000. and easily over the telephone using the provide your bank or building society details Equiniti contact details overleaf.
If you hold quickly and easily over the telephone using more than 2,500 shares you will need to write the Equiniti contact details overleaf.
You must provide a copy of your hold more than 2,500 shares, please contact Returning funds to shareholders share certificate, Sharestore statement or Equiniti for details of how to change your Over 60,000 shareholders did not cash most recent dividend confirmation.
their Shares Not Taken Up SNTU cheque are not available, you will need to provide a following the Rights Issue in September copy of a utility bill or bank statement dated in Scrip Dividend Programme 2013.
In 2017, we continued the tracing the last three months.
Shareholders can choose to have their process to reunite these shareholders with dividends reinvested in new ordinary Barclays their SNTU monies and any unclaimed Dividends shares through the Scrip Dividend Programme.
By the end of the year, we had The final dividend for the year ended returned over 4.5m to our shareholders.
More information, including the Terms and 31 December 2017 will be 2.0 pence per share, Conditions and application form, are available making the 2017 total dividend 3.0 pence.
To find out more, contact Equiniti or visit home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 323 Pall Mall The Mall Strand Charing Cross Broad Sanctuary Horse Guards Road Abingdon Street Parliament Street Westminster Victoria Embankment River ThamesRiver Thames Shareholder information Barclays shareholding Useful contact details Equiniti The Barclays share register is maintained by Equiniti.
If you have any questions about your Barclays shares, please contact Equiniti by visiting shareview.
co. uk Equiniti a 0371 384 2055 in the UK 44 121 415 7004 from overseas a 0371 384 2255 for the hearing impaired in the UK 44 121 415 7028 for the hearing impaired from overseas Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA American Depositary Receipts ADRs Managing your shares online ADRs represent the ownership of Barclays PLC shares which are traded on the New York Shareview To join Shareview, please follow these three Stock Exchange.
ADRs carry prices, and pay Barclays shareholders can go online to easy steps: dividends, in US dollars.
manage their shareholding and find out about Step 1 Go to portfolio.
co. uk Barclays performance by joining Shareview.
If you have any questions about Step 2 Register for electronic Through Shareview, you: ADRs, please contact J. P. Morgan: communications by following the J. P. Morgan: jpmorgan.
com will receive the latest updates from Barclays instructions on screen or visit adr.
com direct to your email Step 3 You will be sent an activation code in can update your address and bank details J. P. Morgan Shareholder Services the post the next working day online 1 800 990 1135 toll free in US and Canada can vote in advance of general meetings.
1 651 453 2128 outside the US and Canada Shareholder security Alternative formats JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. PO Box 64504 Shareholders should be wary of any cold Shareholder documents can St Paul calls with an offer to buy or sell shares.
MN 55164-0504 Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure be provided in large print, USA techniques to lure shareholders into audio CD or Braille free of high-risk investments or scams.
You should Shareholder Relations charge by calling Equiniti.
treat any unsolicited calls with caution.
To give us your feedback or if you a 0371 384 2055 in the UK Please keep in mind that firms authorised by have any questions, please contact: the Financial Conduct Authority FCA are @barclays.
com 44 121 415 7004 from unlikely to contact you out of the blue.
You overseas should consider getting independent Shareholder Relations financial or professional advice from Barclays PLC Audio versions of the someone unconnected to the respective firm 1 Churchill Place London before you hand over any money.
Strategic Report will also be E14 5HP available at the AGM Share price Report a scam Information on the Barclays share If you suspect that you have been price and other share price tools are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA available at: home.
barclays investorrelations using the share fraud reporting form at fca.
You can also call the FCA Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or through Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Note a Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
324 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Notes The terms Barclays or Group refer to Barclays PLC together with its subsidiaries.
Unless otherwise stated, the income statement analysis compares the year ended 31 December 2017 to the corresponding twelve months of 2016 and balance sheet analysis as at 31 December 2017 with comparatives relating to 31 December 2016.
The abbreviations m and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of Pounds Sterling respectively: the abbreviations $m and $bn represent millions and thousands of millions of US Dollars respectively: and the abbreviations m and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of Euros respectively.
There are a number of key judgement areas, for example impairment calculations, which are based on models and which are subject to ongoing adjustment and modifications.
Reported numbers reflect best estimates and judgements at the given point in time.
Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not defined under applicable regulatory guidance or International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are explained in the results glossary that can be accessed at home.
The information in this announcement, which was approved by the Board of Directors on 21 February 2018, does not comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 434 of the Companies Act 2006.
Statutory accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017, which includes certain information required for the Joint Annual Report on Form 20-F of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and which contain an unqualified audit report under Section 495 of the Companies Act 2006 which does not make any statements under Section 498 of the Companies Act 2006 will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies in accordance with Section 441 of the Companies Act 2006.
Positioned for growth, These results will be furnished as a Form 20-F to the SEC as soon as practicable sharing and success following their publication.
Once furnished with the SEC, copies of the Form 20-F will also be available from the Barclays Investor Relations website at home.
barclays results Barclays PLC and from the SECs website at www.
Annual Report 2017 Barclays is a frequent issuer in the debt capital markets and regularly meets with investors via formal road-shows and other ad hoc meetings.
Consistent with its usual practice, Barclays expects that from time to time over the coming quarter it will meet with investors globally to discuss these results and other matters relating to the Group.
Front cover image Non-IFRS performance measures Out of Africa, into new territory Barclays management believes that the non-IFRS performance measures included in After more than 150 years on the continent, the decision to this document provide valuable information to the readers of the financial statements sell down Barclays investment in Africa was not an easy one.
as they enable the reader to identify a more consistent basis for comparing the But with people like Win Chung and Sophia Aluko working business performance between financial periods, and provide more detail concerning hard to ensure a thoughtful separation, we broke new ground the elements of performance which the managers of these businesses are most directly for Barclays in 2017. able to influence or are relevant for an assessment of the Group.
They also reflect an important aspect of the way in which operating targets are defined and performance is monitored by Barclays management.
However, any non-IFRS performance measures in this document are not a substitute for IFRS measures and readers should consider the IFRS measures as well.
Refer to the pages 223 to 225 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 for further information and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures included throughout this document, and the most directly comparable IFRS measures.
Forward-looking statements This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the Group.
Barclays cautions readers that no forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results or other financial condition or performance measures could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as may, will, seek, continue, aim, anticipate, target, projected, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, achieve or other words of similar meaning.
Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements or guidance regarding or relating to the Groups future financial position, income growth, assets, impairment charges, provisions, business strategy, structural reform, capital, leverage and other regulatory ratios, payment of dividends including dividend payout ratios and expected payment strategies, projected levels of growth in the banking and financial markets, projected costs or savings, any commitments and targets and the impact of any regulatory deconsolidation resulting from the sell down of the Groups interest in Barclays Africa Group Limited, estimates of capital expenditures and plans and objectives for future operations, projected employee numbers, IFRS 9 impacts and other statements that are not historical fact.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances.
These may be affected by changes in legislation, the development of standards and interpretations under International Financial Reporting Standards including the implementation of IFRS 9, evolving practices with regard to the interpretation and application of accounting and regulatory standards, the outcome of current and future legal proceedings and regulatory investigations, future levels of conduct provisions, the policies and actions of governmental and regulatory authorities, geopolitical risks and the impact of competition.
In addition, factors including but not limited to the following may have an effect: capital, leverage and other regulatory rules including with regard to the future structure of the Group applicable to past, current and future periods: UK, US, Africa, Eurozone and global macroeconomic and business conditions: the effects of continued volatility in credit markets: market related risks such as changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates: effects of changes in valuation of credit market exposures: changes in valuation of issued securities: volatility in capital markets: changes in credit ratings of any entities within the Group or any securities issued by such entities: the potential for one or more countries exiting the Eurozone: the implications of the exercise by the United Kingdom of Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon and the disruption that may result in the UK and globally from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the success of future acquisitions, disposals and other strategic transactions.
A number of these influences and factors are beyond the Groups control.
As a result, the Groups actual future results, dividend payments, and capital and leverage ratios may differ materially from the plans, goals, expectations and guidance set forth in the Groups forward-looking statements.
This Report is printed on Cocoon Preprint made from 100% Additional risks and factors which may impact the Groups future financial condition and FSC Recycled certified fibre sourced from fide-inked performance are identified in our filings with the SEC including, without limitation, our post-consumer waste.
The printer and the manufacturing mill annual report on form 20-F for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2017, which will be are both credited with ISO14001 Environmental Management available on the SECs website at www.
Systems Standard and both are FSC certified.
By printing this publication on Cocoon Preprint, the environmental impact was Subject to our obligations under the applicable laws and regulations of the United reduced by: 4,952 kg of landfill, 732 kg CO and greenhouse Kingdom and the United States in relation to disclosure and ongoing information, we 2 gases, 102,989 litres of water, 9,490 kWh of energy and undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, 8,046 kg of wood.
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Source: Carbon footprint data evaluated by Labelia Conseil in accordance with the Bilan Carbone methodology.
Calculations are based on a comparison between the recycled paper used versus a virgin fibre paper according to the latest European BREF data virgin fibre paper available.
Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP Barclays Bank PLC 2018 000000 Registered in England.
Registered No: 48839 Designed by FleishmanHillard Fishburn www.
