Glossary of terms Arrears - the aggregate of contractual payments due on a debt Collateralised loan obligations CLOs - asset-backed securities that have not been met by the borrower.
A loan or other financial for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans, often asset is said to be 'in arrears' when payments have not been leveraged loans.
Collectively assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment Asset-backed commercial paper ABCP - a form of asset-backed loss provisions in respect of impaired loans, such as credit cards security generally issued by a commercial paper conduit.
or personal loans, that are below individual assessment thresholds.
Such provisions are established on a portfolio basis, Asset-backed securities ABS - securities that represent taking account of the level of arrears, security, past loss interests in specific portfolios of assets.
They are issued by a experience, credit scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The underlying portfolios commonly comprise residential or commercial Commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS - asset-backed mortgages but can include any class of asset that yields securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans predictable cash flows.
Payments on the securities depend secured on commercial real estate.
primarily on the cash flows generated by the assets in the underlying pool and other rights designed to assure timely Commercial paper CP - unsecured obligations issued by a payment, such as guarantees or other credit enhancements.
corporate or a bank directly or secured obligations asset-backed Collateralised debt obligations, collateralised loan obligations, CP, often issued through a commercial paper conduit, to fund commercial mortgage backed securities and residential mortgage working capital.
Maturities typically range from two to 270 days.
backed securities are all types of ABS.
However, the depth and reliability of some CP markets means that issuers can repeatedly roll over CP issuance and effectively Asset quality AQ band - probability of default banding for all achieve longer term funding.
CP is issued in a wide range of counterparties on a scale of 1 to 10. denominations and can be either discounted or interest-bearing.
Assets under management - assets managed by RBS on behalf Commercial paper conduit - a structured entity that issues of clients.
commercial paper and uses the proceeds to purchase or fund a pool of assets.
The commercial paper is secured on the assets Back-testing - statistical techniques that assess the performance and is redeemed either by further commercial paper issuance, of a model, and how that model would have performed had it repayment of assets or liquidity drawings.
Commercial real estate CRE - freehold and leasehold Basel III - in December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking properties used for business activities.
Commercial real estate Supervision issued final rules: Basel III: A global regulatory includes office buildings, industrial property, medical centres, framework for more resilient banks and banking systems and hotels, retail stores, shopping centres, agricultural land and Basel III: International framework for liquidity risk measurement, buildings, warehouses, garages etc.
Common Equity Tier 1 capital CET1 - the highest quality form of Basis point - one hundredth of a per cent i. e. 0.01 per cent.
100 regulatory capital under Basel III comprising common shares basis points is 1 per cent.
Used when quoting movements in issued and related share premium, retained earnings and other interest rates or yields on securities.
reserves excluding reserves which are restricted or not immediately available, less specified regulatory adjustments.
Buy-to-let mortgages - mortgages to customers for the purchase of residential property as a rental investment.
Contractual maturity - the date in the terms of a financial instrument on which the last payment or receipt under the Capital requirements regulation CRR - refer to CRD IV.
contract is due for settlement.
Certificates of deposit CDs - bearer negotiable instruments Cost:income ratio - operating expenses as a percentage of total acknowledging the receipt of a fixed term deposit at a specified income.
Counterparty credit risk - the risk that a counterparty defaults Collateralised debt obligations CDOs - asset-backed securities before the maturity of a derivative or sale and repurchase for which the underlying asset portfolios are debt obligations: contract.
In contrast to non-counterparty credit risk, the exposure either bonds collateralised bond obligations or loans to counterparty credit risk varies by reference to a market factor collateralised loan obligations or both.
The credit exposure e. g. interest rate, exchange rate, asset price.
underlying synthetic CDOs derives from credit default swaps.
The CDOs issued by an individual vehicle are usually divided in Coverage ratio - impairment provisions as a percentage of different tranches: senior tranches rated AAA, mezzanine impaired loans.
tranches AA to BB, and equity tranches unrated.
Losses are borne first by the equity securities, next by the junior securities, Covered bonds - debt securities backed by a portfolio of and finally by the senior securities: junior tranches offer higher mortgages that are segregated from the issuer's other assets coupons interest payments to compensate for their increased solely for the benefit of the holders of the covered bonds.
409 Glossary of terms CRD IV - the European Union has implemented the Basel III Customer accounts - money deposited with RBS by capital proposals through the CRR and the CRD, collectively counterparties other than banks and classified as liabilities.
CRD IV was implemented on 1 January 2014. include demand, savings and time deposits: securities sold under The EBAs technical standards are still to be finalised through repurchase agreements: and other short term deposits.
Deposits adoption by the European Commission and implemented within received from banks are classified as deposits by banks.
Debit valuation adjustment DVA - an adjustment made in Credit default swap CDS - a contract where the protection seller valuing OTC derivative liabilities to reflect the entity's own credit receives premium or interest-related payments in return for risk.
contracting to make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event in relation to a reference financial asset or Debt securities - transferable instruments creating or portfolio of financial assets.
Credit events usually include acknowledging indebtedness.
They include debentures, bonds, bankruptcy, payment default and rating downgrades.
certificates of deposit, notes and commercial paper.
The holder of a debt security is typically entitled to the payment of principal and Credit derivatives - contractual agreements that provide interest, together with other contractual rights under the terms of protection against a credit event on one or more reference the issue, such as the right to receive certain information.
Debt entities or financial assets.
The nature of a credit event is securities are generally issued for a fixed term and redeemable established by the protection buyer and protection seller at the by the issuer at the end of that term.
Debt securities can be inception of a transaction, and such events include bankruptcy, secured or unsecured.
insolvency or failure to meet payment obligations when due.
The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a Debt securities in issue - unsubordinated debt securities issued payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence of a credit by RBS.
They include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, event.
Credit derivatives include credit default swaps, total return bonds and medium-term notes.
swaps and credit swap options.
Deferred tax asset - income taxes recoverable in future periods Credit enhancements - techniques that improve the credit as a result of deductible temporary differences temporary standing of financial obligations: generally those issued by a differences between the accounting and tax base of an asset or structured entity in a securitisation.
External credit enhancements liability that will result in tax deductible amounts in future periods include financial guarantees and letters of credit from third party and the carry-forward of tax losses and unused tax credits.
Internal enhancements include excess spread - the difference between the interest rate received on the underlying Deferred tax liability - income taxes payable in future periods as a portfolio and the coupon on the issued securities: and overresult of taxable temporary differences temporary differences collateralisation at inception, the value of the underlying between the accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that portfolio is greater than the securities issued.
will result in taxable amounts in future periods.
Credit grade - a rating that represents an assessment of the Defined benefit obligation - the present value of expected future creditworthiness of a customer.
It is a point on a scale payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit representing the probability of default of a customer.
plan resulting from employee service.
Credit risk - the risk of financial loss due to the failure of a Defined benefit plan scheme - pension or other post-retirement customer, or counterparty, to meet its obligation to settle benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan.
Defined contribution plan scheme - pension or other postCredit risk mitigation - reducing the credit risk of an exposure by retirement benefit plan where the employer's obligation is limited application of techniques such as netting, collateral, guarantees to its contributions to the fund.
Deposits by banks - money deposited with RBS by banks and Credit valuation adjustment CVA - the CVA is the difference recorded as liabilities.
They include money-market deposits, between the risk-free value of a portfolio of trades and its market securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds value, taking into account the counterpartys risk of default.
It purchased and other short term deposits.
Deposits received from represents the market value of counterparty credit risk, or an customers are recorded as customer accounts.
estimate of the adjustment to fair value that a market participant would make to reflect the creditworthiness of its counterparty.
Derivative - a contract or agreement whose value changes with changes in an underlying variable such as interest rates, foreign Currency swap - an arrangement in which two parties exchange exchange rates, share prices or indices and which requires no specific principal amounts of different currencies at inception and initial investment or an initial investment that is smaller than subsequently interest payments on the principal amounts.
Often, would be required for other types of contracts with a similar one party will pay a fixed rate of interest, while the other will pay response to market factors.
The principal types of derivatives are: a floating rate though there are also fixed-fixed and floatingswaps, forwards, futures and options.
At the maturity of the swap, the principal amounts are usually re-exchanged.
410 Glossary of terms Discontinued operation - a component of RBS that either has Exposure at default EAD - an estimate of the extent to which been disposed of or is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued the bank will be exposed under a specific facility, in the event of operation is either: a separate major line of business or the default of a counterparty.
geographical area of operations or part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or FICO score - a credit score calculated using proprietary software geographical area of operations: or a subsidiary acquired developed by the Fair Isaac Corporation in the US from a exclusively with a view to resale.
The scores range between 300 and 850 and are used in credit decisions made by banks and other Economic capital - an internal measure of the capital required by providers of credit.
RBS to support the risks to which it is exposed.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA - the statutory body Economic profit - the difference between the return on responsible for conduct of business regulation and supervision of shareholders funds and the cost of that capital.
Economic profit is UK authorised firms from 1 April 2013.
The FCA also has usually expressed as a percentage.
responsibility for the prudential regulation of firms that do not fall Effective interest rate method - the effective interest method is a within the PRAs scope.
method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability or group of financial assets or liabilities and of Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS - the UK's allocating the interest income or interest expense over the statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is services firms.
It pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the obligations.
The FSCS funds compensation for customers by instrument's initial carrying amount.
Calculation of the effective raising management expenses levies and compensation levies interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable that on the financial services industry.
are an integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and First second lien - a lien is a charge such as a mortgage held by transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument one party, over property owned by a second party, as security for are considered when estimating future cash flows.
payment of some debt, obligation, or duty owed by that second party.
The holder of a first lien takes precedence over all other Encumbrance - an interest in an asset held by another party.
encumbrances on that property i. e. second and subsequent liens.
Encumbrance usually restricts the assets transferability until the encumbrance is removed.
Forbearance - forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to a Equity risk - the risk of changes in the market price of the equities customers financial difficulties.
or equity instruments arising from positions, either long or short, in equities or equity-based financial instruments.
Forward contract - a contract to buy or sell a specified amount of a physical or financial commodity, at an agreed price, at an Eurozone - the 19 European Union countries that have adopted agreed future date.
the euro: Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Futures contract - a contract which provides for the future Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.
delivery or acceptance of delivery of some type of financial instrument or commodity under terms established at the outset.
Expected credit loss ECL, an IFRS 9 accounting measure Futures differ from forward contracts in that they are standardised generally is the weighted average of credit losses: for collectively and traded on recognised exchanges and rarely result in actual assessed portfolios it is the product of the exposure, probability of delivery: most contracts are closed out prior to maturity by default at the reporting date and the lifetime loss given default.
acquisition of an offsetting position.
At initial recognition of a financial asset, an allowance is made for the 12 month expected credit loss, using the probability of default G10 - the Group of Ten comprises the eleven industrial countries in the first 12 months only.
On a significant increase in credit Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the risk, the expected credit loss is increased to the lifetime Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the probability of default.
ECL is applied to exposures to all financial United States that have agreed to participate in the International assets and contractual facilities whose performance is not Monetary Funds IMFs General Arrangements to Borrow.
recognised at fair value in the income statement.
Government Sponsored Enterprises GSEs - a group of financial Expected loss EL, a regulatory measure is the product of the services corporations created by the US Congress.
Their function regulatory credit exposure, the probability of default over the next is to improve the efficiency of capital markets and to overcome 12 months, averaged through an economic cycle, and the statutory and other market imperfections which otherwise prevent downturn loss given default.
It is applied to exposures whether funds from moving easily from suppliers of funds to areas of high performance is recognised in income or reserves.
They include the Federal Home Loan Mortgage exposures include all financial assets, customer facilities and are Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association.
Gross yield - the interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets i. e. interest income divided by average interest-earning Exposure - a claim, contingent claim or position which carries a assets.
411 Glossary of terms Haircut - a downward adjustment to collateral value to reflect its International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master nature and any currency or maturity mismatches between the agreement - a standardised contract developed by ISDA for collateral and the exposure it secures.
The contract grants legal rights of set-off for derivative transactions with the same counterparty.
Hedge funds - pooled investment vehicles that are not widely available to the public: their assets are managed by professional Investment grade - generally represents a risk profile similar to a asset managers who participate in the performance of the fund.
rating of BBBBaa3 or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
Impaired loans - all loans for which an impairment provision has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment Key management - members of the RBS Executive Committee.
loss provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in impaired loans.
L-SREP - An annual Liquidity Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process with the PRA, that involves a comprehensive review of Impairment losses - a for impaired financial assets measured at the RBS ILAAP, liquidity policies and risk management amortised cost, impairment losses - the difference between framework.
carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate - are Latent loss provisions - loan impairment provisions held against recognised in profit or loss and the carrying amount of the impairments in the performing loan portfolio that have been financial asset reduced by establishing a provision allowance incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet b for impaired available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative date but which have not been identified at the balance sheet loss that had been recognised directly in equity is removed from date.
equity and recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss.
Level 1 - level 1 fair value measurements are derived from Individually assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets loss provisions for individually significant impaired loans or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date.
assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the financial condition of the counterparty and any guarantor and the Level 2 - level 2 fair value measurements use inputs, other than realisable value of any collateral held.
quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Interest rate swap - a contract under which two counterparties agree to exchange periodic interest payments on a Level 3 - level 3 fair value measurements use one or more predetermined monetary principal, the notional amount.
unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Interest spread - the difference between the gross yield and the Leverage ratio - a measure prescribed under Basel III.
It is the interest rate paid on average interest-bearing liabilities.
ratio of Tier 1 capital to total exposures.
Total exposures include on-balance sheet items, off-balance sheet items and derivatives, Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP - RBSs and generally follow the accounting measure of exposure.
own assessment, as part of Basel III requirements, of its risks, Liquidity and funding risk - the risk that RBS is unable to meet its how it intends to mitigate those risks and how much current and financial liabilities when they fall due.
future capital is necessary having considered other mitigating factors.
Liquidity coverage ratio LCR - the ratio of the stock of high quality liquid assets to expected net cash outflows over the Internal funding of trading business - the internal funding of the following 30 days.
High quality liquid assets should be trading book comprises net banking book financial liabilities that unencumbered, liquid in markets during a time of stress and, fund financial assets in RBSs trading portfolios.
Interest payable ideally, central bank eligible.
on these financial liabilities is charged to the trading book.
Loan:deposit ratio - the ratio of loans and advances to customers Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP an net of provision for impairment losses and excluding reverse ongoing exercise as part of the PRAs regulatory framework to repurchase agreements to customer deposits excluding comply with best practice and regulatory standards for liquidity repurchase agreements.
Loan impairment provisions - loan impairment provisions are International Accounting Standards Board IASB - the established to recognise incurred impairment losses on a independent standard-setting body of the IFRS Foundation.
Its portfolio of loans classified as loans and receivables and carried members are responsible for the development and publication of at amortised cost.
It has three components: individually assessed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and for loan impairment provisions, collectively assessed loan approving Interpretations of IFRS as developed by the IFRS impairment provisions and latent loss provisions.
Loan-to-value ratio - the amount of a secured loan as a percentage of the appraised value of the security e. g. the outstanding amount of a mortgage loan as a percentage of the property's value.
412 Glossary of terms London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR - the benchmark interest Net stable funding ratio NSFR - the ratio of available stable rate at which banks can borrow funds from other banks in the funding to required stable funding over a one year time horizon, London interbank market.
Available stable funding includes items such as equity capital, preferred stock with a maturity of Loss given default LGD - an estimate of the amount that will not over one year and liabilities with an assessed maturity of over be recovered by RBS in the event of default, plus the cost of debt one year.
collection activities and the delay in cash recovery.
Non-performing loans - loans classified as Risk elements in Market risk - the risk of loss arising from fluctuations in interest lending and potential problem loans.
They have a 100% rates, credit spreads, foreign currency rates, equity prices, probability of default and have been assigned an AQ10 internal commodity prices and other risk-related factors such as market credit grade.
volatilities that may lead to a reduction in earnings, economic value or both.
Operational risk - the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people, systems or from external events.
Master netting agreement - an agreement between two counterparties that have multiple derivative contracts with each Option - an option is a contract that gives the holder the right but other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through not the obligation to buy or sell a specified amount of an a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on, underlying physical or financial commodity, at a specific price, at or termination of, any one contract.
an agreed date or over an agreed period.
Options can be exchange-traded or traded over-the-counter.
Maximum distributable amount MDA - a restriction on distributions which may be made by a bank which does not meet Over-the-counter OTC derivatives - derivatives with tailored the combined buffer requirements as set out in the PRA terms and conditions negotiated bilaterally, in contrast to Supervisory Statement SS6 14 Implementing CRD IV: capital exchange traded derivatives that have standardised terms and buffers.
Medium term notes MTNs - debt securities usually with a Own credit adjustment OCA - the effect of the RBSs own credit maturity of five to ten years, but the term may be less than one standing on the fair value of financial liabilities.
They can be issued on a fixed or Past due - a financial asset such as a loan is past due when the floating coupon basis or with an exotic coupon: with a fixed counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually maturity date non-callable or with embedded call or put options due.
MTNs are generally issued as senior unsecured debt.
Pillar 1 - the part of CRD IV that sets out the process by which regulatory capital requirements should be calculated for credit, Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities market and operational risk.
MREL Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital plus specific loss absorbing Pillar 2 - Pillar 2 is intended to ensure that firms have adequate instruments, including senior notes, that may be used to cover capital to support all the relevant risks in their business and is certain gone concern requirements in the EU.
divided into capital held against risks not captured or not fully captured by the Pillar 1 regulations Pillar 2A and risks to which Monoline insurers monolines - entities that specialise in a firm may become exposed over a forward-looking planning providing credit protection against the notional and interest cash horizon Pillar 2B.
Capital held under Pillar 2A, in addition to the flows due to the holders of debt instruments in the event of Pillar 1 requirements, is the minimum level of regulatory capital a default.
This protection is typically in the form of derivatives such bank should maintain at all times to cover adequately the risks to as credit default swaps.
which it is or might be exposed, and to comply with the overall financial adequacy rules.
Pillar 2B is a capital buffer which helps Model Risk Management - performs independent model to ensure that a bank can continue to meet minimum validation for material models where necessary.
requirements during a stressed period, and is determined by the PRA evaluating the risks to which the firm may become exposed Mortgage-backed securities - asset-backed securities for which e. g. due to changes to the economic environment during the the underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on property.
supervisory review and evaluation process.
All firms will be See Residential mortgage backed securities and Commercial subject to a PRA buffer assessment and the PRA will set a PRA mortgage backed securities.
buffer only if it judges that the CRD IV buffers are inadequate for a particular firm given its vulnerability in a stress scenario, or Net interest income - the difference between interest receivable where the PRA has identified risk management and governance on financial assets classified as loans and receivables or failings, which the CRD IV buffers are not intended to address.
available-for-sale and interest payable on financial liabilities carried at amortised cost.
Pillar 3 - the part of CRD IV that sets out the information banks must disclose about their risks, the amount of capital required to Net interest margin - net interest income as a percentage of absorb them, and their approach to risk management.
The aim is average interest-earning assets.
413 Glossary of terms Potential future exposure - is a measure of counterparty Residential mortgage backed securities RMBS - asset-backed risk credit risk.
It is calculated by evaluating existing trades done securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are residential against the possible market prices in future during the lifetime of mortgages.
RBS RMBS classifications, including prime, nonthe transactions.
conforming and sub-prime, reflect the characteristics of the underlying mortgage portfolios.
RMBS are classified as prime Potential problem loans PPL - loans for which an impairment RMBS where the loans have low default risk and are made to event has taken place but no impairment loss is expected.
This borrowers with good credit records and reliable payment histories category is used for advances which are not past due 90 days or and there is full documentation.
Non-conforming RMBS include revolving credit facilities where identification as 90 days overdue US Alt-A RMBS, together with RMBS in jurisdictions other than is not feasible.
the US where the underlying mortgages are not classified as either prime or sub-prime.
Classification of RMBS as subprime or PRA Rule Book - contains provisions made by the PRA that Alt-A is based on Fair Isaac Corporation FICO scores, level of apply to PRA authorised firms.
Within Banking and Investment documentation and loan-to-value ratios of the underlying Rules, the Capital Requirements firms section applies to RBS.
US RMBS are classified as sub-prime if the mortgage portfolio comprises loans with FICO scores between Private equity - equity investments in operating companies not 500 and 650 with full or limited documentation.
Mortgages in Altquoted on a public exchange.
Capital for private equity A RMBS portfolios have FICO scores of 640 to 720, limited investment is raised from retail or institutional investors and used documentation and an original LTV of 70% to 100%.
In other to fund investment strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture jurisdictions, RMBS are classified as sub-prime if the mortgage capital, growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine portfolio comprises loans with one or more high risk capital.
characteristics such as: unreliable or poor payment histories: high loan-to-value ratios: high debt-to-income ratio: the loan is not Probability of default PD - the likelihood that a customer will fail secured on the borrower's primary residence: or a history of to make full and timely repayment of credit obligations over a one delinquencies or late payments on the loan.
Retail loans - loans made to individuals rather than institutions.
Prudential Regulation Authority PRA - the statutory body The loans may be for car purchases, home purchases, medical responsible for the prudential supervision of banks, building care, home repair, holidays and other consumer uses.
societies, insurers and a small number of significant investment firms in the UK.
The PRA is a subsidiary of the Bank of England.
Return on equity - profit attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by average shareholders equity as a percentage.
Regulatory capital - the amount of capital that RBS holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the PRA for Reverse repurchase agreement Reverse repo - refer to Sale the consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual and repurchase agreements.
Risk appetite - an expression of the maximum level of risk that Repurchase agreement Repo - refer to Sale and repurchase RBS is prepared to accept to deliver its business objectives.
Risk asset ratio - total regulatory capital as a percentage of riskResidential mortgage - a loan to purchase a residential property weighted assets.
where the property forms collateral for the loan.
The borrower gives the lender a lien against the property and the lender can Risk elements in lending REIL - impaired loans and accruing foreclose on the property if the borrower does not repay the loan loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to per the agreed terms.
Risk-weighted assets RWAs - assets adjusted for their associated risks using weightings established in accordance with the CRD IV as implemented by the PRA.
Certain assets are not weighted but deducted from capital.
Sale and repurchase agreements - in a sale and repurchase agreement one party, the seller, sells a financial asset to another party, the buyer, at the same time the seller agrees to reacquire and the buyer to resell the asset at a later date.
From the seller's perspective such agreements are repurchase agreements repos and from the buyer's reverse repurchase agreements reverse repos.
414 Glossary of terms Securitisation - a process by which assets or cash flows are Tier 1 capital - a component of regulatory capital, comprising transformed into transferable securities.
The underlying assets or Common Equity Tier 1 and Additional Tier 1.
Additional Tier 1 cash flows are transferred by the originator or an intermediary, capital includes eligible non-common equity capital securities and typically an investment bank, to a structured entity which issues any related share premium.
Under Basel III, Tier 1 capital securities to investors.
Asset securitisations involve issuing debt comprises Core Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, securities asset-backed securities that are backed by the cash less certain regulatory deductions.
flows of income-generating assets ranging from credit card receivables to residential mortgage loans.
Tier 2 capital - qualifying subordinated debt and other Tier 2 securities in issue, eligible collective impairment provisions less Settlement balances - payables and receivables that result from certain regulatory deductions.
purchases and sales of financial instruments recognised on trade Total loss absorbing capacity TLAC - a Financial Stability Board date.
Asset settlement balances are amounts owed to RBS in requirement for global systemically important banks to have a respect of sales and liability settlement balances are amounts sufficient amount of specific types of liabilities which can be used owed by RBS in respect of purchases.
to absorb losses and recapitalise a bank in resolution.
The Standardised approach - a method used to calculate credit risk implementation of the TLAC requirements is being discussed capital requirements under Pillar 1.
In this approach the risk within local regulators.
weights used in the capital calculation are determined by Unaudited - financial information that has not been subjected to regulators.
For operational risk, capital requirements are the audit procedures undertaken by RBS's auditors to enable determined by multiplying three years historical gross income by them to express an opinion on RBS's financial statements.
a percentage determined by the regulator.
The percentage ranges from 12 to 18%, depending on the type of underlying US Federal Agencies - are independent bodies established by business being considered.
the US Government for specific purposes such as the management of natural resources, financial oversight or national Standstill - is an agreement, usually for a specified period of time, security.
A number of agencies, including, the Government not to enforce the lenders rights as a result of a customer National Mortgage Association, issue or guarantee publicly breaching the terms and conditions of their facilities.
This is a traded debt securities.
A standstill is most commonly used in a complex restructuring of a companys debts, where a group Value-at-risk VaR - a technique that produces estimates of the of creditors agree to delay enforcement action to give the potential loss in the market value of a portfolio over a specified company time to gather information and formulate a strategy with time period at a given confidence level.
a view to establishing a formal restructuring.
Wholesale funding - wholesale funding comprises Deposits by Stress testing - a technique used to evaluate the potential effects banks, Debt securities in issue and Subordinated liabilities.
on an institutions financial condition of an exceptional but plausible event and or movement in a set of financial variables.
Write-down - a reduction in the carrying value of an asset to record a decline in its fair value or value in use.
Stressed value-at-risk SVaR - a VaR measure using historical data from a one year period of stressed market conditions.
For the purposes of calculating regulatory SVaR, a time horizon of ten trading days is assumed at a confidence level of 99%.
Refer also to Value-at-risk below.
Structured entity SE - an entity that has been designed such that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, for example when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
SEs are usually established for a specific, limited purpose, they do not carry out a business or trade and typically have no employees.
They take a variety of legal forms - trusts, partnerships and companies - and fulfil many different functions.
Structured notes - securities that pay a return linked to the value or level of a specified asset or index.
Structured notes can be linked to equities, interest rates, funds, commodities and foreign currency.
Subordinated liabilities - liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other creditors of the issuer.
