com Operational update Maintaining operations and preparing our business for high performance in an increasingly digital world Ian Fantozzi Chief operating officer Beazley continues to demonstrate In early 2017, we announced the In February, we announced the profitable growth, and we have developed establishment of our European based acquisition of Creechurch Underwriters.
a diversified portfolio of products that insurance company, Beazley Insurance The addition of this business to Beazley are distributed globally, through dac.
The operations team has worked presents new opportunities to increase 29 locations.
To support this growth, we hard to ensure all the necessary distribution of our specialist underwriting have developed a scalable and efficient operations and technology infrastructure products in Canada.
The acquisition operating platform that, through focused is in place to support this business.
brought three additional office locations investment, has become an important As well as supporting the launch of in Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver all competitive advantage.
over 40 insurance product coverages of which have had their technology and as part of the rollout of our new financial processing infrastructure integrated with A high performing global operations institutions business, we have developed our wider business.
There will be further function relies on us maintaining our back-office systems to be able to opportunities for us to share operational consistency in operational standards efficiently process both large co-insured capability as this integration develops in throughout the group, while business and smaller 100% Beazley 2018, and for us to leverage our existing simultaneously being prepared to try written business.
Key to growing the product delivery capability in this region.
new things and leverage our depth of distribution of smaller risk business insurance operations expertise to give has been the ongoing expansion of Supporting business growth relies on us a lead over the competition.
effective processes and systems, but to achieve this, we pursue our group The latest e-trading product launches, it is also important that we have a high operations strategy.
This focuses on in the US and in Europe for our German quality working environment that is the areas below.
professional indemnity book will support conducive to team working and thought the growth of our small enterprise leadership.
In 2017, we opened a new package products.
office in Barcelona that will help to Supporting growth initiatives increase our access to continental In support of our strategic growth European business, and expanded initiatives in areas such as the US, our Los Angeles office in support of our Europe, Asia Pacific, and small growing underwriting portfolio in the enterprise we have continued to south west of the US.
enhance our infrastructure so that we can bring attractive new products to market as efficiently as possible.
Virtual Care and Execuguard are examples of two new types of insurance that we launched in 2017.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 53 Cost efficiency Managing operational risk Managing for performance Beazley is organised to a large degree A market differentiator for Beazley is effectively around global underwriting and claims the considerable experience that we Effective risk management requires teams.
This model has served us well have amassed within our global clear visibility of the level of operational in ensuring that products that succeed operations team.
Whether providing risk we maintain.
Critical to supporting in one market can be swiftly introduced support services or delivering large an effective control environment is in others.
However, it is important that projects, we know what works and what consistency of ownership for operations this does not result in back office systems does not.
The operations team and the support and the provision of management and support resources becoming underwriting teams have developed information.
duplicative or the administration of strong working relationships over the insurance transactions impeding the years, and collectively we have developed As we continue to make our operational business in any way.
considerable expertise in bringing new support more efficient, we have products and distribution channels to defined clear ownership for processes, In pursuit of greater efficiency and fruition.
As with all Beazley talent we establishing clear accountability for consistency of operational service, recognise the importance of developing process execution and planning.
This we have centralised operations support attractive career paths.
We equip our simplifies operational control reporting or outsourced it where this brings further operations team with the right skills for and strengthens our ability to provide value.
We want to make sure that the job.
We routinely review our talent a coordinated rapid response to support operations and processing are done by for potential skills gaps and then provide business growth opportunities.
appropriately skilled people, at the most the most relevant training to ensure cost effective location, whilst providing a high standard of service provision.
A widely discussed topic across our the best service levels.
To help achieve industry is preparation for the General this, we have built operations service Although Beazley receives plenty of Data Protection Regulation GDPR, centres in the US in Connecticut and in interest when attracting new operations which comes into effect during 2018.
We also make use of global and technology talent, we recognise that We see the privacy of our customer data outsourcing agreements for business our working environment needs to keep and the associated rights to the use processing support and information evolving to remain attractive, and to then of personal data as very important to technology support.
These arrangements retain and further motivate this talent.
In previous years, Beazley has have been carefully planned and In 2017, after a successful pilot with our made significant investment in this area selected to ensure we can maximise a London based IT team, we commenced and so our preparation for GDPR has highly efficient and scalable operating a project to develop our larger offices been a continuation of this work.
platform to support our business growth.
into activity based working ABW Similarly, we see the threat of cyber environments.
Although a benefit of attack as an ever evolving threat, and In 2017, we commenced a project to ABW is more efficient use of office over the years have developed a build a new operational service centre space, it also creates an environment framework of preventative, detective in Birmingham UK to support our where our workforce has a physical and response controls to counter this London and Rest of World platform space and technology environment threat.
In 2017, we increased the size growth.
This location is proving to be a that maximises the potential for them of our in-house information security cost-effective alternative to London.
It to carry out their daily activities.
Our first and IT security teams in support of this also benefits from excellent access to ABW environment will be the new framework.
skills relevant to Beazleys future growth Birmingham office opening in 2018, plans, for example in technology, data followed by a new location in New York.
analytics and financial services support We are also reviewing ABW options for generally.
This year we have built our our London based teams.
capabilities in software development, robotics, project delivery, as well as multi-lingual underwriting support and credit control at this location.
In early 2018, we will open a new Birmingham office to house the operational service teams, as well as underwriters from our UK regional teams.
com Operational update continued Of course, the proof of these technologies Looking ahead to goes beyond trials and prototypes.
a digital Beazley Ideas that were mentioned in last years In our industry, the word digital has annual report are already in production.
become a catch-all term for the Some examples are robotics, for which application of new technologies, data we now have an in-house delivery team analytics and disruptive business and live robots now operating processes models.
It can be easy to get caught in in Beazley day-to-day: natural language the hype surrounding these, or worse processing, which is being used to to get distracted by opportunities that extract and process unstructured data may not align with the future direction from the thousands of risk submission of our markets or customer needs.
emails we receive from our brokers: In 2017, our focus has been towards and the rollout of a new suite of data synthesising how best to leverage new analytics tools to all Beazley users.
technology to further strengthen the value that Beazley already brings to its 2 Organising our business to deliver, customers, and to keep differentiating and leverage, the technology ourselves within the specialist insurance This year we reorganised our operational market.
We do see this as requiring capability so that equal attention is a digital transformation of our business, applied to both the day-to-day efficient but the question has been how best support of the business, and to to achieve this.
This year, our board transforming our business for a digital approved a new digital strategy for the future.
This saw the creation of a new group which takes a two-pronged approach Digital Transformation team that will towards answering this question: focus on changing our business in terms of product design, processes, workforce 1 Building the data and technology and physical infrastructure in order research capability to maximise the value we get from In late 2016, we created a new team new data and technology solutions.
called Beazley Labs, and dedicated resource to the research of new We have also reorganised the way our technology and data analytics solutions.
IT systems fit together, moving from Since its inception, the Beazley Labs a model with a number of separate team has run a series of hackathons components towards a customer centric to prototype new technologies model.
This means we have created a responding to real business problems new global IT platform, which went into and opportunities.
In 2017, we raised production in July 2017, that provides a the profile of this work across the whole single customer and broker record onto business establishing a new group which we can attach all our business strategic initiative called the Data & activity associated with them.
Ultimately, Analytics Strategic Initiative DASI.
this means we will be able to give our As well as providing regular board level customers a more joined up digital updates, this strategic initiative has service experience, and crucially it will further increased business engagement enable us to optimise our response and awareness of how new data and times.
technology ideas can be applied across our product lines.
As we proceed into 2018, we are well placed not only as a high performing specialist insurer, but we also have developed great strength in our operational capability.
The changes we have made in 2017, will allow us to build on this operational strength and ensure we are a high performing specialist insurer in an increasingly digital world.
