Financial statements Page Independent auditors report 230 Consolidated income statement 244 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 245 Consolidated balance sheet 246 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 247 Consolidated cash flow statement 250 Accounting policies 251 Notes on the consolidated accounts 1 Net interest income 264 2 Non-interest income 264 3 Operating expenses 265 4 Pensions 269 5 Auditors remuneration 274 6 Tax 275 7 Earnings per ordinary share 276 8 Financial instruments - classification 276 9 Financial instruments - valuation 279 10 Financial instruments - maturity analysis 289 11 Financial assets - impairments 291 12 Derivatives 292 13 Debt securities 294 14 Equity shares 295 15 Intangible assets 295 16 Property, plant and equipment 296 17 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 297 18 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities of 298 disposal groups 19 Short positions 299 20 Provisions for liabilities and charges 299 21 Accruals and other liabilities 300 22 Deferred tax 301 23 Subordinated liabilities 303 24 Non-controlling interests 305 25 Share capital 305 26 Other equity 307 27 Leases 308 28 Structured entities 309 29 Asset transfers 310 30 Capital resources 311 31 Memorandum items 312 32 Net cash flow from operating activities 326 33 Analysis of the net investment in business interests and 326 intangible assets 34 Interest received and paid 327 35 Analysis of changes in financing during the year 327 36 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents 327 37 Segmental analysis 328 38 Directors and key management remuneration 332 39 Transactions with directors and key management 332 40 Related parties 333 41 Post balance sheet events 333 Parent company financial statements and notes 334 229 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Opinion We have audited the financial statements see table below of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc which comprise: Group ParentCompany Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017: Balance sheet as at 31 December 2017: Consolidated income statement for the year then ended: Statement of changes in equity for the year then Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended: then ended: Cash flow statement for the year then ended: and Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then Related notes 1 to 15 to the financial statements.
ended: Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: Accounting Policies on pages 251 to 263: Related notes 1 to 41 to the financial statements: Information identified as audited in the Annual report on remuneration on pages 83 to 105: and Capital and risk management section of the Business review except information identified as unaudited on pages 149 to 228.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
230 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement In relation to the ISAs UK which require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to, we have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report: the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts set out on pages 372 to 402 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 49 in the Annual Report and Accounts that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 112 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the viability statement set out on page 49 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the accounting policies, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Overview of our audit approach Key Audit Matters Provisions for conduct, litigation and regulatory matters, customer remediation and claims.
Future profitability estimates impacting the recognition of deferred tax, impairment in goodwill and, in the parent company accounts, investments in subsidiaries.
Impairment of loans and advances.
Valuation of financial instruments with higher risk characteristics including related income from trading activities.
Hedge effectiveness testing including the impact on non-interest income.
Audit scope The significant components of our audit cover the reportable segments identified in the financial statements together with the central functions of the Group based in the UK and overseas and include Finance, the Services function and Treasury.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of four components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further three components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 93% or more of Group total income, equity and total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality has been set at 300 million which represents 0.6% of total equity.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
231 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Risk Our response to the risk Provisions for conduct, litigation and regulatory matters, customer remediation and claims The continued litigious environment and the heightened We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups key regulatory scrutiny gives rise to a high level of judgement in controls over the identification, estimation, monitoring and disclosure determining appropriate provisions and disclosures.
At the of provisions considering the potential for management override of year end, the Group has reported 7.8 billion 2016: 12.8 controls.
The controls tested included those designed and operated billion of provisions for liabilities and charges, including by management to identify and monitor claims, assess the 5.8 billion 2016: 11.0 billion for conduct and litigation completeness and accuracy of data used to estimate provisions.
claims, including RMBS, PPI and the FCA review of RBSs treatment of SMEs as detailed in Note 20 of the financial We examined the relevant regulatory correspondence to assess statements on page 299. developments in key cases, the Groups complaint handling reports and litigation reports to identify potentially material cases.
For cases where a provision was not recognised, we considered whether the Management judgement is needed to determine whether an outcome was probable and reliably estimable in accordance with the obligation exists and a provision should be recorded at 31 accounting criteria.
December 2017 in accordance with the accounting criteria set under IAS 37.
This includes determining if: It is probable that an economic outflow such as a For the significant provisions made, we understood, assessed and payment will occur: and challenged the provisioning methodology.
We tested the underlying The amount of the payment or other economic data and assumptions used in the determination of the provisions outflow can be estimated reliably.
recorded, including expected claim rates, legal costs, and the timing The measurement of the provision is based on the best of settlement.
We also considered peer bank settlements in similar estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present cases.
We sent external confirmations to the Groups external counsel for The most significant areas of judgement are: significant matters and corroborated managements conclusion by Completeness of provisions recognised: judgement is independently obtaining the underlying information used in estimating in the determination of whether an outflow in respect the provisions.
of identified material conduct matters are probable or can be estimated reliably: Where appropriate, we involved our conduct risk specialists.
For key Measurement of provisions recognised: cases, we considered the regulatory developments and appropriateness of assumptions and judgements used managements interaction with the Regulators and concluded on the in the estimation of material provisions: and reasonableness of the assumptions used by management also by Adequacy of disclosures of provision for liabilities and comparing the results of our independently performed benchmarking charges and contingent liabilities.
We also verified historical data and whether they supported current estimates.
In addition, we attended key management meetings and reviewed the minutes of legal and conduct provision committee meetings to conclude on the effectiveness of managements review controls and the appropriateness of the conclusions reached We tested the disclosure provided on conduct, litigation and regulatory provisions to determine whether it complied with accounting standards.
Given the inherent estimation uncertainty and the judgmental nature of these provisions, we evaluated the appropriateness of the disclosure made in the financial statements.
232 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that the Groups provisions for conduct, litigation and regulatory matters, customer remediation and claims are within a reasonable range and recognised in accordance with IFRS.
We did not identify any material unrecorded provisions.
We highlighted the following matters: In assessing and evaluating the total US RMBS provision of 3.2 billion, management and the Board considered other industry settlements and claims.
It is a reasonable reflection of the Groups current position given the prevailing uncertainty as to the outcome of the remaining discussions with the US Department of Justice and other parties.
The risk of future material additional charges is appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
The PPI provision remains sensitive to key assumptions, the most significant of which is future complaint volumes.
Managements estimate was within our range of outcomes based on reasonable alternative assumptions.
The provision related to the FCA review of the Groups treatment of SMEs is sensitive to a number of assumptions.
Managements estimate is within an acceptable range based on the current information available to us.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee page 65 Accounting policies page 251 Note 20 of the financial statements page 299 Risk Our response to the risk Future profitability estimates impacting the recognition of deferred tax and the impairment of goodwill and, in the parent company accounts, investments in subsidiaries.
The recognition and carrying value of deferred tax assets, We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups key goodwill and, in the parent company accounts, investments controls around the preparation and review of the forecasts.
We in subsidiaries are based on estimates of future profitability tested the controls over the value in use model including the which require significant management judgement.
At year significant assumptions, inputs, calculations, methodologies and end the Group had reported Goodwill of 5.6 billion 2016: judgements.
5.6 billion and deferred tax assets of 1.7 billion 2016: With the support of our valuation specialists, we tested whether key 1.8 billion.
The parent company has reported investments macroeconomic assumptions used in the Groups forecasting process in subsidiaries of 47.6 billion 2016: 44.6 billion.
We evaluated how the discount rates and long term growth rates used by management compared to peer practice, In testing for impairment, the Group estimates the value in external market data and corroborative calculations.
We considered use of its cash generating units based on the business the Groups cost reduction programme and the extent to which forecasts: annual cost reductions had been met.
We assessed the achievability Revenue and cost forecasts impacted by the Groups of future cost reduction plans including considering how these transformation programme and reorganisation, compared to peer banks and the external commentary.
We also business and strategic changes underway and the considered the results of the independent review of the forecasts changing competitive environment: undertaken by the Risk function and managements challenge of the Key assumptions used in the recoverability and carrying values and key assumptions in relevant executive valuation assessments discount rates, growth rates, committees of the Group.
: and Assumptions regarding the economic consequences of We tested how previous management forecasts compared to actual Brexit and other political developments over an results to evaluate the accuracy of the forecasting process.
assessed how these forecasts impacted the carrying value of The recognition of deferred tax assets considers the future deferred tax, goodwill and investments.
profit forecasts of the legal entities as well as interpretation of recent changes to tax rates and laws.
We evaluated how management considered alternative assumptions and performed sensitivity analysis on the assumptions used.
We considered how key events, such as Banking Structural Reform and Brexit impacted managements estimates.
We performed our own scenario analysis for certain assumptions we considered could have a significant impact on the results of the impairment tests.
With the support of our taxation specialists, we assessed the estimate of future taxable profits to calculate the level of deferred tax assets recognised on the balance sheet including the time horizon used for recoverability of losses and other temporary differences.
In addition, we attended and observed management meetings where key judgements were discussed, including those used in the value in use model and the carrying value of deferred tax assets.
We also reviewed Board and Executive Committee minutes to assess the effectiveness of managements review process and the appropriateness of the conclusions reached.
233 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that the carrying values of deferred tax assets, goodwill and, in the parent company accounts, investments in subsidiaries are reasonable and the related disclosures are in compliance with IFRS.
We highlighted the following: Results of our sensitivity analysis of the value in use and headroom to changes in the key assumptions in the forecasts including the long term growth rate, discount rate and factors impacting the underlying level of profitability both at a Group level and for individual segments: Sensitivity of the goodwill and the investment in subsidiaries to the Groups forecast cost reduction and the impact of the amount and timing of actual cost reductions achieved: and Inherent uncertainty of the five year forecasts and the difficulty predicting revenue and costs over this period, particularly with respect to the impact of Banking Structural Reform, the economic consequences of Brexit and other political developments, and disruptions in the business model over an extended period.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee page 65 Accounting policies page 251 Note 15 page 295 and Note 22 page 301 of the financial statements, and Note 7 page 340 of the Parent company financial statements.
Risk Our response to the risk Impairment of loans and advances A significant degree of judgement is required to determine the We tested the design and operating effectiveness of key timing and amount of impairment to recognise with respect to controls focusing on the following: loans and advances.
At year end the Group reported total gross loans and advances of 384.0 billion 2016: 386.5 billion and Identification of loss events, including early warning and impairment provisions of 3.8 billion 2016: 4.5 billion.
default warning indicators: Annual credit reviews: We have focused on the following significant judgements and Assessment and approval of individual impairment estimates which could give rise to material misstatement or provisions: management bias: Governance including model validation and the assessment of the suitability of models, appropriateness Completeness and timing of recognition of loss events in of assumptions, consideration of post model adjustments accordance with criteria set out in IAS 39: and approval of provisions: and For individually assessed provisions, the measurement of the Completeness and accuracy of data input into models provision may be dependent on the valuation of collateral, and provision calculators.
estimates of exit values and the timing of cash flows: For modelled provisions measurement is primarily dependent In addition, we periodically attended and observed risk upon key assumptions relating to probability of default, ability committee and provision committee meetings.
to repossess collateral and recovery rates: and Completeness and valuation of post model adjustments.
For modelled provisions we tested data inputs and agreed a sample of data used in the models and calculators to source systems.
We used our credit risk specialists to test the assumptions and calculations.
We evaluated the methodology to establish model parameters and assessed the appropriateness of the models used.
We performed code reviews for a sample of models and calculators.
Where possible, assumptions were benchmarked against Pillar 3, EBA stress tests and our internally developed ranges.
Where post model adjustments were made as a result of limitations in existing models, we confirmed the extent of the model shortcoming, recalculated and assessed the appropriateness of the adjustment.
Based on current economic and market circumstances, we considered the need for sector or systemic overlay adjustments.
In Ulster Bank RoI we specifically focused on key data inputs and model parameters, including probabilities of modelled outcome and collateral haircuts, and reviewed managements back testing of key assumptions.
234 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Risk Our response to the risk Impairment of loans and advances continued To test the completeness of the identification of loans with loss events we selected a sample of performing loans and independently assessed whether any IAS 39 loss indicators were present.
For loans individually assessed for impairment we based our sample on factors including high risk sectors such as shipping, construction, oil and gas and commercial real estate.
With input from our valuation specialists we formed an independent view of collateral or exit values, cash flow assumptions and exit strategies.
We re-performed the discounted cash flow calculations and compared our measurement outcome to that prepared by management and investigated any differences arising.
We assessed the appropriateness and presentation of disclosures against relevant accounting standards.
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that credit impairment provisions were reasonable and in compliance with IFRS.
We highlighted the following: Our testing of controls did not identify significant deficiencies.
Our testing of models and model assumptions did not highlight material differences.
For individually assessed impairments, in a few instances we reported judgemental differences in respect of the extent of the impairment identified, however none of these differences were considered material.
Overall, we were satisfied with the completeness of the identification of loss events.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee page 65 Accounting policies page 251 Note 11 of the financial statements page 291 Risk Our response to the risk Valuation of financial instruments with higher risk characteristics including related income from trading activities The valuation of financial instruments with higher risk We performed trade life-cycle product walkthroughs to confirm characteristics involves both significant judgment and risk of our understanding of RBSs process and controls in the area of inappropriate revenue recognition through mis-marking.
The revenue recognition relating to financial instruments with judgement in estimating fair value of these instruments can involve higher risk characteristics.
complex valuation models and significant fair value adjustments both of which may be reliant on data inputs where there is limited We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the market observability.
At year end the Group reported level 3 Groups controls over financial instrument valuations, including assets 3.3 billion 2016: 4.5 billion and level 3 liabilities 2.2 independent price verification, model approval review, billion 2016: 3.0 billion.
collateral management, and income statement analysis and reporting.
The potential risk of inappropriate recognition of revenue is most likely to arise through the valuation of these instruments given the We performed further procedures as set out below for each level of management judgement involved.
risk characteristic with involvement from our financial instrument valuation and modelling specialists.
These The key judgements and estimates are: procedures were performed at multiple points in the year to Complex model-dependent valuations, which are aligned with validate the appropriateness of revenue recognition.
material pricing models as defined by the RBS Modelled Product Review Committee.
These include interest-rate Our testing on complex model-dependent valuations involved swaps linked to pre-payment behaviour and interest rate and the specialist review of detailed model documentation and use foreign exchange options with exotic features such as those of internally developed EY challenger models to analyse and having multiple call dates or with a variable notional: challenge judgements and assumptions applied within each relevant model.
235 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Risk Our response to the risk Valuation of financial instruments with higher risk characteristics including related income from trading activities continued Pricing inputs and calibrations for illiquid instruments, Our re-pricing of instruments valued using illiquid pricing inputs which are largely aligned with material positions defined covered material products associated with this risk and the as level 3 within the Groups IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy results were compared to the valuations recorded by disclosure.
These include rarely traded debt securities, management.
For a sample of derivatives, our valuation and derivative instruments whose valuation is dependent testing used independent models and data.
For cash positions upon the correlation between certain interest rates or analytical procedures were performed to validate the uncertainty surrounding the discount rate associated population of identified illiquid positions and, prices of with complex collateral arrangements: comparable positions and other data points were used to Fair value adjustments made to uncollateralised independently value these.
derivatives to reflect funding risk, counterparty credit risk and other product and deal specific considerations.
Our testing of fair value adjustments for counterparty credit, These include RBSs Funding Valuation Adjustments funding risk and other product and deal specific considerations FVA, Credit Valuation Adjustments CVA relating to on uncollateralised derivatives involved: i comparing derivative counterparties whose credit spread is less valuation judgements applied by management to our readily able to be determined, and material product and knowledge of current industry practice through benchmarking deal specific adjustments on long dated uncollateralised exercises ii re-valuing a sample of counterparty level FVA derivative portfolios: and and CVA calculations using independent models, iii testing The manipulation of revenue recognition is most likely to funding spreads to third party data and analysis of recent trade arise through the inappropriate valuation of these activity to verify the drivers of differences between book value instruments given the level of management judgement and trade value, iv independent challenge of illiquid CVA involved.
inputs and v testing assumptions of material product and deal specific adjustments, including analysis of recent trade activity.
Where differences between our independent valuation and managements valuation were outside our thresholds, we performed additional testing over each variance to support our assessment of the appropriateness of the fair value.
This work included our own analysis of: i recent trade activity, involving trade exits to back-test key valuation judgements, ii collateral disputes and material differences with counterparty valuations, iii income statement attribution, particularly unexplained income statement in the year for the relevant instruments and iv associated valuation adjustments e. g. model fair value adjustments to reflect the associated uncertainty given lack of market data.
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that the fair value of financial instruments with higher risk characteristics and the recognition of related income is reasonable and in accordance with IFRS.
We highlighted the following to the Group Audit Committee: Our independent valuation of a sample of derivatives were either within our threshold or, where initially outside, were corroborated by other data, for example, trade exit activity, valuation adjustments for model or data limitations, or benchmarking to peer practice.
Valuations of hard-to-price cash positions were within our thresholds: and The Groups recognition of fair value adjustments on uncollateralised derivatives is within a reasonable range of outcomes based upon our testing procedures which included revaluation exercises, benchmarking to peer practice and experience from recent trade activity.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee page 65 Accounting policies page 251 Note 9 of the financial statements page 279 236 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Risk Our response to the risk Hedge effectiveness testing including the impact on non-interest income The Group undertakes fair value and cash flow hedge accounting programs to We tested the design and operating mitigate income statement volatility arising from the Groups activities.
effectiveness of key controls including the performance, review and approval of Hedge effectiveness testing for both of these programs is identified as a risk area monthly hedge effectiveness testing because the application of accounting rules and execution of hedge effectiveness performed by management.
testing lead to significant adjustments to the balance sheet and income statement which are inherently complex and involve some management judgement.
These We challenged the assumptions applied in adjustments impact non-interest income and there is an incentive to manipulate the testing hedge effectiveness in accordance hedge effectiveness results, to avoid undesirable income statement volatility.
Any with IAS 39. hedge ineffectiveness remains in the income statement.
With the support of our hedge accounting While the majority of the Group process for hedge accounting is automated a risk specialists we independently re-performed a arises that management design an effectiveness testing methodology that does not sample of hedge effectiveness tests.
This comply with IAS 39 requirements or manually override otherwise automated results included testing hedge relationships and to influence the income statement impact.
manual adjustments made to the effectiveness assessment.
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that the Group has appropriately applied hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS.
We highlighted that hedge ineffectiveness is correctly recorded in the income statement and we concurred with managements assessment that there are no hedge relationships that should have been discontinued.
We concluded on the effectiveness of controls in place over hedge accounting as at year end.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee page 65 Accounting policies page 251 Note 12 of the financial statements page 292 Risk Our response to the risk Provision for restructuring costs Transformation programmes as well as organisational We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups key changes lead to impairment, restructuring provisions and controls around the recognition and measurement of these other severance payments.
The timing and amount of restructuring costs.
This included the review and approval of restructuring costs recognised depend on management provisions recorded by finance and the estimate of the costs to judgement to determine when the accounting criteria have record.
been met to support recognition in the current period.
At We enquired of management involved in transactions to verify a year end, the Group recorded total restructuring provisions proper understanding of the transactions and its impacts, both on of 482 million 2016: 450 million.
Management judgement is needed to determine whether an obligation exists and a provision should be recorded at We obtained a breakdown of the direct and indirect restructuring 31 December 2017 in accordance with the accounting costs recorded during the year.
We selected a sample of provisions criteria set under IAS 37.
This includes determining if: and restructuring costs and assessed them for compliance with IAS There is a legal or constructive obligation as a result 37 by considering the criteria which outline when a constructive of a past event: obligation has been met in order to recognise a provision.
For staff It is probable that an economic outflow such as a costs, this included determining whether the plans had been payment will occur: and communicated with employees.
The amount of the payment or other economic For premises and equipment, this included determining whether the outflow can be estimated reliably.
unavoidable costs to execute the planned exit exceed the benefit.
The most significant areas of judgement when recognising We assessed the measurement of the provision by testing the these costs are: underlying data and assumptions used in estimating the amount Determining whether a constructive obligation has recorded.
We also assessed any impact to goodwill and intangibles.
For example, has the Group indicated to other parties that it will accept certain responsibilities: and Judgement involved in the measurement of the provision based on estimated costs.
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that the restructuring costs are appropriately recorded and in compliance with IFRS.
We highlighted the following: Timing of the recognition of certain restructuring provisions and the control in place to estimate the amount of the provision and consider the relevant accounting judgements.
237 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Our assessment of IAS 37 criteria that resulted in differences that were not material being recorded by management.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee page 65 Accounting policies page 251 Note 20 page 299 of the financial statements.
Risk Our response to the risk Pension valuation and retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes We tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls which in total are significant in the context of the overall over the completeness and accuracy of data extracted and supplied balance sheet.
At year end the Group reported a net to the Groups actuaries, which is used to calculate the pension pension asset of 263 million 2016: 87 million net pension schemes surplus or deficit.
We also tested the controls associated with the actuarial The valuations of the retirement benefit liabilities are assumptions setting process and the measurement of the fair value calculated with reference to a number of actuarial of the schemes assets.
We concluded that the key controls were assumptions and inputs including discount rate, rate of designed, implemented and operated effectively.
The net pension asset is sensitive to changes in the assumptions.
With the support of our actuarial specialists, we understood the judgements made in determining the assumptions used by management to value the retirement benefit liabilities and we challenged and verified whether these assumptions met the requirements of the applicable accounting standards, the specific circumstances of the schemes and their participants, and were in line with market practice.. Our audit procedures included an assessment of the methodology adopted by the actuaries in determining the assumptions, a comparison of life expectancy assumptions with relevant mortality tables, benchmarking inflation and discount rates against external market data, considering changes in historical assumptions and evaluating the independence, qualifications and results of work performed by managements actuaries involved in the valuation process.
We tested the fair value measurement of scheme assets by independently calculating a fair value for a sample of the assets held.
Our sample included cash, equity instruments, derivative financial instruments and other assets.
We also tested the existence of the sampled pension assets by obtaining written confirmation from the relevant pension asset custodian and by examining the relevant legal documentation.
We also tested the actuaries calculation of the pension liabilities by independently rolling forward the prior year figures allowing for the ageing of members, accrual of benefits over the year and changes in financial and demographic assumptions over the period.
We read and tested the disclosures made in the financial statements, including the sensitivities to the key assumptions.
238 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that the valuation and disclosure of the retirement benefit obligations recorded at 31 December 2017 is reasonable and in accordance with requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
We described and discussed results of our internal benchmarking of key actuarial assumptions including the discount rate, inflation, mortality and pension payments.
We concluded that assumptions tested are within a reasonable range.
We also presented the results of our independent valuation of a sample of pension assets.
In determining the accounting for the pension schemes, we understood managements assessment of the impact of IFRIC 14 on the amount of the surplus recognised in the financial statements and verified its compliance with the applicable accounting standards.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee page 65 Accounting policies page 251 Note 4 of the financial statements page 269 Risk Our response to the risk IT systems and controls Our audit procedures have a focus on IT systems and We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups IT controls due to the pervasive nature and complexity of access controls over the information systems that are critical to financial the IT environment, the large volume of transactions reporting.
We tested IT general controls logical access, changes processed in numerous locations daily and the management and aspects of IT operational controls.
This included testing reliance on automated and IT dependent manual that requests for access to systems were appropriately reviewed and controls.
Our areas of audit focus included user authorised.
We tested the Groups periodic review of access rights.
We access management, developer access to the inspected requests of changes to systems for appropriate approval and production environment and changes to the IT authorisation.
We considered the control environment relating to various environment.
These are key to ensuring IT dependent interfaces, configuration and other application layer controls identified as and application based controls are operating key to our audit.
Where deficiencies were identified, we tested compensating controls or performed alternate procedures.
In addition, we understood where relevant, changes were made to the IT landscape during the audit period and tested those changes that had a significant impact on financial reporting.
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that IT controls relevant to financial reporting operated effectively at year-end.
We noticed that a number of user access related deficiencies were identified.
Compensating controls were tested or alternate procedures were performed.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee page 65 Accounting policies page 251 An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each component of the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account the size and risk profile of the component and its activities, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component.
Our audit of the significant components covers the reportable segments identified in the financial statements, together with the central functions of the Group based in the UK and overseas, and includes Finance, the Services function and Treasury.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure that we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected seven components covering entities within the UK and 10 other countries, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
239 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Of the seven components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of four components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining three components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the accounts and disclosures in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Component ScopeKeylocations UK Personal & Business Banking Full United Kingdom Ulster Bank ROI Specific Republic of Ireland Commercial Banking Full United Kingdom Private Banking Specific United Kingdom RBS International Specific Channel Islands NatWest Markets Full United Kingdom, United States and Singapore Central items and other including Global Financial Services, Services Full United Kingdom, India and Poland and Treasury The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
As the Group has historically made losses, we considered total assets, total equity and the absolute value of the amounts in the income statement meaning the magnitude of the amounts without regard to their positive or negative value to verify we had appropriate overall coverage on the income statement.
1 2 3 Full scope Specific scope Other procedures Total Total assets 93% 6% 1% 100% Total equity 57% 40% 3% 100% Absolute value of the income statement 90% 3% 7% 100% The audit scope of Specific scope components may not have included testing of all significant accounts within the component: however the testing will have contributed to the total coverage of significant accounts tested for the overall Group.
Changes from the prior year In Q4 2017, RBS completed a segmental reorganisation, which included: Williams & Glyn, previously a specific scope component, was integrated into UK Personal and Business Banking UK PBB.
Capital Resolution, previously a full scope component, with the exception of the Retail Mortgaged Backed Securities RMBS litigation costs, was integrated into NatWest Markets NWM.
Capital Resolution RMBS litigation related costs was included, at a reportable operating segment level, within Central items & other.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken in each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors in the United Kingdom or from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the four full scope components, audit procedures were performed on one of these directly by the primary audit engagement team.
Of the three specific scope components, where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The primary audit engagement team interacted regularly with the component audit teams where appropriate throughout the course of the audit, which included holding planning meetings, maintaining regular communications on the status of the audits, reviewing key working papers and taking responsibility for the scope and direction of the audit process.
The primary audit engagement team also participated in meetings with key management personnel in the components and, for certain overseas locations, implemented a programme of planned visits.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with local management.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Notes: 1 Full scope: audit procedures on all significant accounts.
2 Specific scope: audit procedures on selected accounts.
3 Other procedures: considered in analytical procedures.
240 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Materiality The magnitude of omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group and parent company to be 300 million 2016 materiality: 270 million, which is 0.6% of the total equity of the Group and 0.6% of the parent company.
We considered that equity represented a relevant measure used by investors, regulators and other stakeholders when assessing the performance of the Group and parent company.
Our materiality was based on the equity of the Group given the significant losses and volatility of results in recent years.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and increased it from our initial level of 270 million in light of the fact that many legacy items are now reflected in equity.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and corrected misstatements exceed materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely 150 million 2016: 135 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage which is at the lowest end of the range of our audit methodology based on various considerations including the past history of misstatements, our ability to assess the likelihood of misstatements, the effectiveness of the control environment and other factors affecting the entity and its financial reporting.
Audit work of component teams for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component team is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated by the primary audit engagement team to components was between 60 million and 115 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Group Audit Committee that we would report to them all corrected and uncorrected audit misstatements in excess of 15 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative and qualitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Accounting developments effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 replaces the current financial instruments standard IAS 39 effective 1 January 2018.
It represents a fundamental change to the way financial instruments are classified, measured and assessed for credit impairment.
The Group has established a Group-wide programme to implement the necessary changes as a result of this standard and disclosed the impact of transition on equity.
Our audit work on this accounting change has been performed throughout 2017, for the purpose of the transition disclosure included in the 2017 financial statements, and continues through 2018.
Our procedures on the impact disclosed included: Assessing the key interpretations made by management for compliance with IFRS 9 Classification and measurement: o Testing the intent of holding the instruments and their contractual characteristics in order to assess their classification Credit impairment: o Testing the assumptions and judgements used in the impairment models to calculate expected credit losses, including the incorporation of economic forecasts o Testing the data used to run the models o Testing the IT applications used in the credit impairment process We also tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls over the completeness and accuracy of the transition disclosure included in the financial statements.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report and Accounts, including the Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 49, Governance set out on pages 50 to 116, Business review set out on pages 117 to 148, Capital and risk management set out on pages 149 to 228, Additional information set out on pages 357 to 371, Risk Factors set out on pages 372 to 403, Shareholder information set out on pages 404 to 407, Abbreviations and acronyms set out on page 408, Glossary of terms set out on pages 409 to 415, Index set out on pages 416 to 418, and Important addresses set out on page 419 other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
241 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 116 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Group Audit Committee reporting set out on page 65 the section describing the work of the Group Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 106 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 116, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for the implementation of such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
242 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements.
We determined that the most significant are: o Companies Act 2006 o Financial Reporting Council FRC and the UK Corporate Governance Code o Sarbanes Oxley Act SOX o Tax Legislation governed by HM Revenue and Customs o Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules o CRDIV Basel III and Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA rules We understood how the Group is complying with those frameworks by reviewing the RBS Policy Framework, holding discussions with the Groups general counsel, external counsel compliance group, regulatory group, internal audit, amongst others.
We inquired as to any known instances of non-compliance or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations.
We also reviewed the Groups Complaints Management Policy and Whistleblowing Policy.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by holding discussions with senior management, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Head of Internal Audit and Group Audit Committee Chairman.
We also reviewed the Groups fraud-related policies and mandates of different governance forums assessing fraud.
As part of our audit procedures, we were aware of the risk of fraud, especially in the areas of estimation and those we assessed as having the risk of management override.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved inquiring of key management, reviewing the key policies and reports on the aforementioned regulatory frameworks as well as reviewing the correspondence exchanged with the Regulators.
We communicated with the component teams to assess if there were any specific considerations for these areas which were then incorporated in the Group-wide approach.
We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups key controls by walking through key processes and testing controls.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Group Audit Committee we were appointed by the Group at its annual general meeting on 4 May 2016 to audit the financial statements of the Group for the period ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 2 years, covering periods from our appointment through 31 December 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent company in conducting the audit The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Group Audit Committee Jonathan Bourne Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 22 February 2018 Note: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the RBS web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions 243 Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2015 Note m m m Interest receivable 11,034 11,258 11,925 Interest payable 2,047 2,550 3,158 Net interest income 1 8,987 8,708 8,767 Fees and commissions receivable 3,338 3,340 3,742 Fees and commissions payable 883 805 809 Income from trading activities 634 974 1,060 Loss on redemption of own debt 7 126 263 Other operating income 1,064 499 426 Non-interest income 2 4,146 3,882 4,156 Total income 13,133 12,590 12,923 Staff costs 4,676 5,124 5,726 Premises and equipment 1,565 1,388 1,827 Other administrative expenses 3,323 8,745 6,288 Depreciation and amortisation 808 778 1,180 Write down of goodwill and other intangible assets 29 159 1,332 Operating expenses 3 10,401 16,194 16,353 Profit loss before impairment losses releases 2,732 3,604 3,430 Impairment losses releases 11 493 478 727 Operating profit loss before tax 2,239 4,082 2,703 Tax charge 6 824 1,166 23 Profit loss from continuing operations 1,415 5,248 2,726 Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 18 1,541 Profit loss for the year 1,415 5,248 1,185 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 35 10 409 Preference shareholders 234 260 297 Paid-in equity holders 394 244 88 Dividend access share 7 1,193 Ordinary shareholders 752 6,955 1,979 1,415 5,248 1,185 Per ordinary share Basic and diluted earnings loss from continuing and discontinued operations 7 6.3p 59.5p 27.7p Basic and diluted earnings loss from continuing operations 7 6.3p 59.5p 17.2p The accompanying notes on pages 264 to 333, the accounting policies on pages 251 to 263 and the audited sections of the Business review: Capital and risk management on pages 149 to 228 form an integral part of these financial statements.
244 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2015 Note m m m Profit loss for the year 1,415 5,248 1,185 Items that do not qualify for reclassification Profit loss on remeasurement of retirement benefit schemes 4 90 1,049 73 Loss on fair value of credit in financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss due to own credit risk 126 Tax 10 288 306 46 761 233 Items that do qualify for reclassification Available-for-sale financial assets 26 94 44 Cash flow hedges 1,069 765 700 Currency translation 100 1,263 1,181 Tax 256 106 108 687 1,828 1,729 Other comprehensive loss income after tax 733 1,067 1,496 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 682 4,181 2,681 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 52 121 370 Preference shareholders 234 260 297 Paid-in equity holders 394 244 88 Dividend access share 1,193 Ordinary shareholders 2 5,999 3,436 682 4,181 2,681 The accompanying notes on pages 264 to 333, the accounting policies on pages 251 to 263 and the audited sections of the Business review: Capital and risk management on pages 149 to 228 form an integral part of these financial statements.
245 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Note m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 8 98,337 74,250 Loans and advances to banks 8 30,251 30,138 Loans and advances to customers 8 349,919 351,950 Debt securities subject to repurchase agreements 29 23,781 18,107 Other debt securities 55,152 54,415 Debt securities 13 78,933 72,522 Equity shares 14 450 703 Settlement balances 2,517 5,526 Derivatives 12 160,843 246,981 Intangible assets 15 6,543 6,480 Property, plant and equipment 16 4,602 4,590 Deferred tax 22 1,740 1,803 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 17 3,726 3,700 Assets of disposal groups 18 195 13 Total assets 738,056 798,656 Liabilities Deposits by banks 8 46,898 38,556 Customer accounts 8 398,036 380,968 Debt securities in issue 8 30,559 27,245 Settlement balances 2,844 3,645 Short positions 19 28,527 22,077 Derivatives 12 154,506 236,475 Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 7,757 12,836 Accruals and other liabilities 21 6,392 6,991 Retirement benefit liabilities 4 129 363 Deferred tax 22 583 662 Subordinated liabilities 23 12,722 19,419 Liabilities of disposal groups 18 10 15 Total liabilities 688,963 749,252 Non-controlling interests 24 763 795 Owners equity 25, 26 48,330 48,609 Total equity 49,093 49,404 Total liabilities and equity 738,056 798,656 The accompanying notes on pages 264 to 333, the accounting policies on pages 251 to 263 and the audited sections of the Business review: Capital and risk management on pages 149 to 228 form an integral part of these financial statements.
The accounts were approved by the Board of directors on 22 February 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Howard Davies Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Registered No.
SC45551 246 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2015 m m m Called-up share capital At 1 January 11,823 11,625 6,877 Ordinary shares issued 142 198 159 Conversion of B shares 1 4,590 Preference shares redeemed 2 1 At 31 December 11,965 11,823 11,625 Paid-in equity At 1 January 4,582 2,646 784 Redeemed reclassified 3 524 110 150 Additional Tier 1 capital notes issued 4 2,046 2,012 At 31 December 4,058 4,582 2,646 Share premium account At 1 January 25,693 25,425 25,052 Ordinary shares issued 235 268 373 Redemption of debt preference shares 2 748 Capital reduction 5 25,789 At 31 December 887 25,693 25,425 Merger reserve At 1 January 10,881 10,881 13,222 Transfer to retained earnings 2,341 At 31 December 10,881 10,881 10,881 Available-for-sale reserve At 1 January 238 307 299 Unrealised gains 202 282 31 Realised gains losses 176 376 27 Tax 9 25 16 Recycled to profit or loss on ceding control of Citizens 6 9 Transfer to retained earnings 43 At 31 December 255 238 307 Cash flow hedging reserve At 1 January 1,030 458 1,029 Amount recognised in equity 277 1,867 712 Amount transferred from equity to earnings 792 1,102 1,354 Tax 266 193 98 Recycled to profit or loss on ceding control of Citizens 7 36 Transfer to retained earnings 9 At 31 December 227 1,030 458 Foreign exchange reserve At 1 January 2,888 1,674 3,483 Retranslation of net assets 111 1,470 22 Foreign currency losses on hedges of net assets 6 278 176 Tax 1 62 11 Recycled to profit or loss on disposal of businesses 8 22 40 4 Recycled to profit or loss on ceding control of Citizens 8 962 Transfer to retained earnings 642 At 31 December 2,970 2,888 1,674 Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 4,542 4,542 9,131 Conversion of B shares 1 4,590 Capital reduction 5 4,542 Preference shares redeemed 2 1 At 31 December 4,542 4,542 For notes to these tables see page 295.
247 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2015 m m m Retained earnings At 1 January 12,936 4,020 4,001 Profit loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and other equity owners - continuing operations 1,380 5,258 2,801 - discontinued operations 1,207 Equity preference dividends paid 234 260 297 Paid-in equity dividends paid, net of tax 394 244 88 Capital reduction 5 30,331 Dividend access share dividend 1,193 Transfer from available-for-sale reserve 43 Transfer from cash flow hedging reserve 9 Transfer from foreign exchange reserve 642 Transfer from merger reserve 2,341 Costs of placing Citizens equity 29 Redemption of debt preference shares 2 748 Redemption of equity preference shares 2 1,160 1,214 Redemption reclassification of paid-in equity 196 21 27 Gain loss on remeasurement of the retirement benefit schemes - gross 90 1,049 67 - tax 28 288 306 Changes in fair value of credit in financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss - gross 126 - tax 18 Shares issued under employee share schemes 5 10 58 Share-based payments - gross 22 9 36 - tax 4 At 31 December 17,130 12,936 4,020 Own shares held At 1 January 132 107 113 Disposal of own shares 6 Shares issued under employee share schemes 161 41 Own shares acquired 72 66 At 31 December 43 132 107 Owners equity at 31 December 48,330 48,609 53,431 For notes to these tables refer to the following page.
The accompanying notes on pages 264 to 333, the accounting policies on pages 251 to 263 and the audited sections of the Business review: Capital and risk management on pages 149 to 228 form an integral part of these financial statements.
248 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2015 m m m Non-controlling interests see Note 24 At 1 January 795 716 2,946 Currency translation adjustments and other movements 17 111 3 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests - continuing operations 35 10 75 - discontinued operations 334 Dividends paid 25 31 Movements in available-for-sale securities - unrealised gains 22 - realised gains 6 - tax 5 Movements in cash flow hedging reserve - amount recognised in equity 32 - tax 4 Loss on remeasurement of the retirement benefit schemes - gross 6 Equity raised 9 2,537 Equity withdrawn and disposals 59 42 24 Loss of control of Citizens 5,157 At 31 December 763 795 716 Total equity at 31 December 49,093 49,404 54,147 Total equity is attributable to: Non-controlling interests 763 795 716 Preference shareholders 2,565 2,565 3,305 Paid-in equity holders 4,058 4,582 2,646 Ordinary shareholders 41,707 41,462 47,480 49,093 49,404 54,147 Notes: 1 In October 2015, all B shares were converted into ordinary shares of 1 each.
2 During 2017, non-cumulative US dollar preference shares were redeemed at their original issue price of US$1.1 billion.
The nominal value of 0.3 million has been credited to the capital redemption reserve: share premium increased by 0.7 billion in respect of the premium received on issue, with a corresponding decrease in retained earnings.
During 2016, non-cumulative US dollar preference shares were redeemed at their original issue price of US$1.5 billion 2015 - $1.9 billion.
The nominal value of 0.3 million 2015 1.0 million was transferred from share capital to capital redemption reserve and ordinary owners equity was reduced by 0.4 billion 2015 - 0.2 billion in respect of the movement in exchange rates since issue.
3 Paid-in equity reclassified to liabilities as a result of the call of US$564 million and CAD321 million EMTN notes in August 2017 redeemed in October 2017, the call of RBS Capital Trust D in March 2017 redeemed in June 2017, the call of RBS Capital Trust C in May 2016 redeemed in July 2016, the call of RBS Capital Trust IV in January 2015 redeemed in March 2015.
4 AT1 capital notes totalling 2.0 billion issued in August 2016 2015 - 2.0 billion.
5 On 15 June 2017, the Court of Session approved a reduction of RBSG plc capital so that the amounts which stood to the credit of share premium, account and capital redemption reserve were transferred to retained earnings.
6 2015 Net of tax - 6 million charge.
7 2015 Net of tax - 16 million credit.
9 Includes 2,491 million relating to the secondary offering of Citizens in March 2015.
249 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2015 Note m m m Cash flows from operating activities Operating profit loss before tax from continuing operations 2,239 4,082 2,703 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 1,766 Adjustments for non-cash items and other adjustments included within income statement 4,498 3,024 5,601 Contributions to defined benefit schemes 627 4,786 1,060 Changes in operating assets and liabilities 42,147 8,413 8,589 Income taxes paid 520 171 73 Net cash flows from operating activities 32 38,741 3,650 918 Cash flows from investing activities Sale and maturity of securities 11,656 8,599 8,229 Purchase of securities 17,212 11,607 14,135 Sale of property, plant and equipment 405 447 1,432 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,132 912 783 Net divestment of investment in business interests and intangible assets 33 199 886 391 Net cash flows from investing activities 6,482 4,359 4,866 Cash flows from financing activities Issue of ordinary shares 306 300 307 Issue of Additional Tier 1 capital notes 2,046 2,012 Redemption of non-controlling interests 2,537 Redemption of paid-in equity 720 110 150 Redemption of equity preference shares 1,160 1,214 Redemption of debt preference shares 748 Non-controlling interests equity withdrawn and disposals 59 42 Own shares acquired disposed 89 25 6 Redemption of subordinated liabilities 5,747 3,606 3,047 Dividends paid 612 504 416 Dividend access share 1,193 Interest on subordinated liabilities 717 813 975 Net cash flows from financing activities 8,208 5,107 940 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 16 8,094 576 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 24,035 5,022 4,312 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 98,570 103,592 107,904 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 36 122,605 98,570 103,592 The accompanying notes on pages 264 to 333, the accounting policies on pages 251 to 263 and the audited sections of the Business review: Capital and risk management on pages 149 to 228 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Revenue recognition The accounts, set out on pages 244 to 356 including these Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans accounting policies on pages 251 to 263 and the audited sections and receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity and of the Financial review: Capital and risk management on pages interest expense on financial liabilities other than those measured 149 to 228, are prepared on a going concern basis see the at fair value are determined using the effective interest method.
Report of the directors, page 109 and in accordance with The effective interest method is a method of calculating the International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability or group of International Accounting Standards Board IASB and financial assets or liabilities and of allocating the interest income interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee of or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
the IASB as adopted by the European Union EU together The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts IFRS.
The EU has not adopted the complete text of IAS 39 estimated future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: it has amount.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into relaxed some of the standard's hedging requirements.
The Group account fees payable or receivable that are an integral part of the has not taken advantage of this relaxation: its financial instrument's yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms the IASB.
of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows.
Negative effective interest accruing to financial assets The company is incorporated in the UK and registered in is presented in interest payable.
Its accounts are presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
With the exception of investment property Financial assets and financial liabilities held-for-trading or and certain financial instruments as described in Accounting designated as at fair value through profit or loss are recorded at policies 9, 14, 16 and 23, the accounts are presented on an fair value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
Fees in respect of services are recognised as the right to The Group adopted two revisions to IFRSs effective 1 January consideration accrues through the provision of the service to the 2017: customer.
The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred as the service is In January 2016, the IASB amended IAS 7 Cash Flow rendered.
The price is usually fixed and always determinable.
Statements to require disclosure of the movements in financing The application of this policy to significant fee types is outlined liabilities.
This is shown in Note 35. below.
In January 2016, the IASB amended IAS 12 Income taxes to Payment services - this comprises income received for payment clarify the recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of services including cheques cashed, direct debits, Clearing House unrealised losses.
Automated Payments the UK electronic settlement system and BACS payments the automated clearing house that processes Neither of these amendments has had a material effect on the direct debits and direct credits.
These are generally charged on Groups financial statements.
The income is earned when the payment or transaction occurs.
Charges for payment services are usually 2.
Basis of consolidation debited to the customer's account monthly or quarterly in arrears.
The consolidated accounts incorporate the financial statements Income is accrued at period end for services provided but not yet of the company and entities including certain structured entities charged.
that are controlled by the Group.
The Group controls another entity a subsidiary when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable Credit and debit card fees - fees from card business include: returns from its involvement with that entity and has the ability to Interchange received: as issuer, the Group receives a fee affect those returns through its power over the other entity: power interchange each time a cardholder purchases goods and generally arises from holding a majority of voting rights.
The Group also receives interchange fees from acquisition of a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and other card issuers for providing cash advances through its contingent liabilities are included in the consolidated accounts at branch and automated teller machine networks.
These fees their fair value.
A subsidiary is included in the consolidated are accrued once the transaction has taken place.
financial statements from the date it is controlled by the Group Periodic fees payable by a credit card or debit card holder until the date the Group ceases to control it through a sale or a are deferred and taken to profit or loss over the period of the significant change in circumstances.
Changes in the Groups service.
interest in a subsidiary that do not result in the Group ceasing to Lending credit facilities - commitment and utilisation fees are control that subsidiary are accounted for as equity transactions.
determined as a percentage of the outstanding facility.
If it is All intergroup balances, transactions, income and expenses are unlikely that a specific lending arrangement will be entered into, eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated accounts are such fees are taken to profit or loss over the life of the facility prepared under uniform accounting policies.
otherwise they are deferred and included in the effective interest rate on the loan.
251 Accounting policies Brokerage fees - in respect of securities, foreign exchange, For defined benefit schemes, the defined benefit obligation is futures or options transactions entered into on behalf of a measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit customer are recognised as income on execution of a significant method and discounted at a rate determined by reference to act.
market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate bonds of equivalent term and currency to the scheme Trade finance - income from the provision of trade finance is liabilities.
Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
The recognised over the term of the finance unless specifically related difference between scheme assets and scheme liabilities, the net to a significant act, in which case income is recognised when the defined benefit asset or liability, is recognised in the balance act is executed.
A defined benefit asset is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available to the Group in the form of Investment management - fees charged for managing refunds from the plan or reduced contributions to it.
investments are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Incremental costs that are directly attributable to The charge to profit or loss for pension costs recorded in securing an investment management contract are deferred and operating expenses comprises: charged as expense as the related revenue is recognised.
the current service cost interest, computed at the rate used to discount scheme 4.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations liabilities, on the net defined benefit liability or asset A non-current asset or disposal group is classified as held for past service cost resulting from a scheme amendment or sale if the Group will recover its carrying amount principally curtailment through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
A gains or losses on settlement.
non-current asset or disposal group classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less A curtailment occurs when the Group significantly reduces the costs to sell.
If the asset or disposal group is acquired as part of number of employees covered by a plan.
A plan amendment a business combination it is initially measured at fair value less occurs when the Group introduces, or withdraws, a defined costs to sell.
Assets and liabilities of disposal groups classified as benefit plan or changes the benefits payable under an existing held for sale and non-current assets classified as held for sale defined benefit plan.
Past service cost may be either positive are shown separately on the face of the balance sheet.
when benefits are introduced or changed so that the present value of the defined benefit obligation increases or negative The results of discontinued operations, comprising the post-tax when benefits are withdrawn or changed so that the present profit or loss of discontinued operations and the post-tax gain or value of the defined benefit obligation decreases.
A settlement is loss recognised either on measurement to fair value less costs to a transaction that eliminates all further obligation for part or all of sell or on disposal of the discontinued operation, are shown as a the benefits.
single amount on the face of the income statement: an analysis of this amount is presented in Note 18 on the accounts.
Actuarial gains and losses i. e. gains or and losses on remeasuring the net defined benefit asset or liability are A discontinued operation is a cash generating unit or a group of recognised in other comprehensive income in full in the period in cash generating units that either has been disposed of, or is which they arise.
classified as held for sale, and a represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, b is part of 6.
Intangible assets and goodwill a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of Intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated at cost less business or geographical area of operations or c is a subsidiary accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
charged to profit or loss over the assets' estimated economic lives using methods that best reflect the pattern of economic 5.
Employee benefits benefits and is included in Depreciation and amortisation.
These Short-term employee benefits, such as salaries, paid absences, estimated useful economic lives are: and other benefits are accounted for on an accruals basis over the period in which the employees provide the related services.
Computer software 3 to 12 years Employees may receive variable compensation satisfied by cash, Other acquired intangibles 5 to 10 years by debt instruments issued by the Group or by RBSG shares.
The treatment of share-based compensation is set out in Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is Accounting policy 25.
Variable compensation that is settled in written-off as incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development of cash or debt instruments is charged to profit or loss over the internal-use computer software are capitalised once technical period from the start of the year to which the variable feasibility and economic viability have been established.
These compensation relates to the expected settlement date taking costs include payroll, the costs of materials and services, and account of forfeiture and clawback criteria.
Capitalisation of costs ceases when the software is capable of operating as intended.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised in profit or loss when payable.
252 Accounting policies During and after development, accumulated costs are reviewed 8.
Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and for impairment against the benefits that the software is expected equipment to generate.
Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred as are any indication that its intangible assets, or property, plant and all training costs and general overheads.
The costs of licences to equipment are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group use computer software that are expected to generate economic estimates the recoverable amount of the asset and the benefits beyond one year are also capitalised.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate Intangible assets include goodwill arising on the acquisition of that it might be impaired.
Goodwill on the acquisition of a subsidiary is the excess of the fair value of the consideration If an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent transferred, the fair value of any existing interest in the subsidiary from those of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable and the amount of any non-controlling interest measured either at amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the fair value or at its share of the subsidiarys net assets over net asset belongs.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable fair value of the subsidiarys identifiable assets, liabilities and group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely contingent liabilities.
independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a joint venture when the cost in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups of investment exceeds the Groups share of the net fair value of cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units the joint ventures identifiable assets and liabilities.
Goodwill is expected to benefit from the combination.
The recoverable measured at initial cost less any subsequent impairment losses.
amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is included value less cost to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is the within their carrying amounts.
The gain or loss on the disposal of present value of future cash flows from the asset or casha subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the carrying generating unit discounted at a rate that reflects market interest value of any related goodwill.
rates adjusted for risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit that have not been taken into account in estimating future 7.
Property, plant and equipment cash flows.
If the recoverable amount of an intangible or tangible Items of property, plant and equipment except investment asset is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is property - see Accounting policy 9 are stated at cost less recognised immediately in profit or loss and the carrying value of accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where an item the asset reduced by the amount of the loss.
of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, these are accounted for separately.
A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets excluding goodwill or property, plant and equipment can be recognised Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis so when an increase in service potential arises provided the as to write-off the depreciable amount of property, plant and increased carrying value is not greater than it would have been equipment including assets owned and let on operating leases had no impairment loss been recognised.
Impairment losses on over their estimated useful lives.
The depreciable amount is the goodwill are not reversed.
cost of an asset less its residual value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful lives of the Groups property, 9.
Investment property plant and equipment are: Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both.
Freehold buildings 50 years Investment property is not depreciated but is stated at fair value.
Long leasehold property leases Fair value is based on current prices for similar properties in the with more than 50 years to run 50 years same location and condition.
Any gain or loss arising from a Short leaseholds unexpired period of the change in fair value is recognised in profit or loss.
Rental income lease from investment property is recognised on a straight-line basis Property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years over the term of the lease in Other operating income.
Lease Computer equipment up to 5 years incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total Other equipment 4 to 15 years rental income.
The residual value and useful life of property, plant and 10.
Foreign currencies equipment are reviewed at each balance sheet date and updated The Group's consolidated financial statements are presented in for any changes to previous estimates.
sterling which is the functional currency of the company.
Group entities record transactions in foreign currencies in their functional currency, the currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate, at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
253 Accounting policies Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies As lessee are translated into the relevant functional currency at the foreign The Groups contracts to lease assets are principally operating exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Operating lease rental expense is included in Premises exchange differences arising on the settlement of foreign and equipment costs and recognised as an expense on a currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets straight-line basis over the lease term unless another systematic and liabilities are reported in income from trading activities except basis better represents the benefit to the Group.
for differences arising on cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations see Accounting policy 23.
Provisions Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are The Group recognises a provision for a present obligation stated at fair value are translated into the relevant functional resulting from a past event when it is more likely than not that it currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the will be required to transfer economic benefits to settle the values are determined.
Translation differences arising on nonobligation and the amount of the obligation can be estimated monetary items measured at fair value are recognised in profit or reliably.
loss except for differences arising on available-for-sale nonmonetary financial assets, for example equity shares, which are Provision is made for restructuring costs, including the costs of recognised in other comprehensive income unless the asset is redundancy, when the Group has a constructive obligation to the hedged item in a fair value hedge.
An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and expectation in those affected by starting to implement the plan or fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into by announcing its main features.
sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are translated If the Group has a contract that is onerous, it recognises the into sterling at average exchange rates unless these do not present obligation under the contract as a provision.
An onerous approximate to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of contract is one where the unavoidable costs of meeting the the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the Groups contractual obligations exceed the expected economic translation of a foreign operation are recognised in other benefits.
When the Group vacates a leasehold property, a comprehensive income.
The amount accumulated in equity is provision is recognised for the costs under the lease less any reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of a foreign expected economic benefits such as rental income.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past 11.
Leases events, whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain As lessor future events, or present obligations arising from past events that Contracts with customers to lease assets are classified as are not recognised because either an outflow of economic finance leases if they transfer substantially all the risks and benefits is not probable or the amount of the obligation cannot be rewards of ownership of the asset to the customer: all other reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but contracts with customers to lease assets are classified as information about them is disclosed unless the possibility of any operating leases.
outflow of economic benefits in settlement is remote.
Finance lease receivables are included in the balance sheet, 13.
Tax within Loans and advances to customers, at the amount of the Income tax expense or income, comprising current tax and net investment in the lease being the minimum lease payments deferred tax, is recorded in the income statement except income and any unguaranteed residual value discounted at the interest tax on items recognised outside profit or loss which is credited or rate implicit in the lease.
Finance lease income is allocated to charged to other comprehensive income or to equity as accounting periods so as to give a constant periodic rate of return appropriate.
before tax on the net investment and included in Interest receivable.
Unguaranteed residual values are subject to regular Current tax is income tax payable or recoverable in respect of the review: if there is a reduction in their value, income allocation is taxable profit or loss for the year arising in profit or loss, other revised and any reduction in respect of amounts accrued is comprehensive income or equity.
Provision is made for current recognised immediately.
tax at rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised in income on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in systematic basis better represents the time pattern of the assets respect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of use.
Operating lease assets are included within Property, plant an asset or liability for accounting purposes and its carrying and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives see amount for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally Accounting policy 7.
Operating lease rentals receivable are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax included in Other operating income.
254 Accounting policies Deferred tax is not recognised on temporary differences that Loans and receivables - non-derivative financial assets with fixed arise from initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a or determinable repayments that are not quoted in an active transaction other than a business combination that at the time market are classified as loans and receivables, except those that of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or are classified as available-for-sale or as held-for-trading, or loss.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates expected to apply designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and in the periods when the assets will be realised or the liabilities receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus directly settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively related transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at enacted, at the balance sheet date.
amortised cost using the effective interest method see Accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset and where they relate to Available-for-sale financial assets - financial assets that are not income taxes levied by the same taxation authority either on an classified as held-to-maturity: held-for-trading: designated as at individual Group company or on Group companies in the same fair value through profit or loss: or loans and receivables are tax group that intend, in future periods, to settle current tax classified as available-for-sale.
Financial assets can be liabilities and assets on a net basis or on a gross basis designated as available-for-sale on initial recognition.
for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
Financial assets measured at fair value.
Unquoted equity investments whose fair On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into held-tovalue cannot be measured reliably are carried at cost and maturity investments: held-for-trading: designated as at fair value classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
Impairment through profit or loss: loans and receivables: or available-for-sale losses and exchange differences resulting from retranslating the financial assets.
Normal purchases of financial assets classified amortised cost of foreign currency monetary available-for-sale as loans and receivables are recognised on the settlement date: financial assets are recognised in profit or loss together with all other normal transactions in financial assets are recognised on interest calculated using the effective interest method see the trade date.
Accounting policy 3 as are gains and losses attributable to the hedged risk on available-for-sale financial assets that are hedged Held-to-maturity investments - a financial asset may be classified items in fair value hedges see Accounting policy 23.
Other as a held-to-maturity investment only if it has fixed or changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets and determinable payments, a fixed maturity and the Group has the any related tax are reported in other comprehensive income until positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from investments are initially recognised at fair value plus directly equity to profit or loss.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method see Reclassifications - held-for-trading and available-for-sale financial Accounting policy 3 less any impairment losses.
assets that meet the definition of loans and receivables nonderivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments Held-for-trading - a financial asset is classified as held-for-trading that are not quoted in an active market may be reclassified to if it is acquired principally for sale in the near term, or forms part loans and receivables if the Group has the intention and ability to of a portfolio of financial instruments that are managed together hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is The Group typically regards the foreseeable future for this a derivative not in a qualifying hedge relationship.
Held-forpurpose as twelve months from the date of reclassification.
trading financial assets are recognised at fair value with Additionally, held-for-trading financial assets that do not meet the transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss.
Subsequently definition of loans and receivables may, in rare circumstances, be they are measured at fair value.
Income from trading activities transferred to available-for-sale financial assets or to held-toincludes gains and losses on held-for-trading financial assets as maturity investments.
Reclassifications are made at fair value.
This fair value becomes the asset's new cost or amortised cost as appropriate.
Gains and losses recognised up to the date of Designated as at fair value through profit or loss - financial assets reclassification are not reversed.
may be designated as at fair value through profit or loss only if such designation a eliminates or significantly reduces a Fair value - the Groups approach to determining the fair value of measurement or recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a financial instruments measured at fair value is set out in the group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both, that the section of Critical accounting policies and key sources of Group manages and evaluates on a fair value basis: or c relates estimation uncertainty entitled Fair value - financial instruments.
to an instrument that contains an embedded derivative which is Further details are given in Note 9 on the accounts.
not evidently closely related to the host contract.
Financial assets that the Group designates on initial recognition as being at fair 15.
Impairment of financial assets value through profit or loss are recognised at fair value, with The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss, and are any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial subsequently measured at fair value.
Gains and losses are assets classified as held-to-maturity, as available-for-sale or as recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
loans and receivables is impaired.
255 Accounting policies A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and an The typical time frames from initial impairment to write off for the impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence that an Groups  portfolios are: event or events since initial recognition of the asset have Retail mortgages: write off usually occurs within five years, adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from or when an account is closed if earlier.
Credit cards: the irrecoverable amount is written off after 12 months: three years later any remaining amounts Financial assets carried at amortised cost - if there is objective outstanding are written off.
evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of Overdrafts and other unsecured loans: write off occurs financial assets classified as loans and receivables or as held-towithin six years.
maturity investments has been incurred, the Group measures the Business and commercial loans: write offs of commercial amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount loans are determined in the light of individual circumstances: of the asset or group of assets and the present value of the period does not exceed five years.
Business loans are estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets generally written off within five years.
discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition.
For collateralised loans and receivables, estimated Amounts recovered after a loan has been written off are credited future cash flows include cash flows that may result from to the loan impairment charge for the period in which they are foreclosure less the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, received.
whether or not foreclosure is probable.
Financial assets carried at fair value - when a decline in the fair Where, in the course of the orderly realisation of a loan, it is value of a financial asset classified as available-for-sale has been exchanged for equity shares or property, the exchange is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and there is accounted for as the sale of the loan and the acquisition of equity objective evidence that it is impaired, the cumulative loss is securities or investment property.
Where the Groups interest in reclassified from equity to profit or loss.
The loss is measured as equity shares following the exchange is such that the Group the difference between the amortised cost including any hedge controls an entity, that entity is consolidated.
accounting adjustments of the financial asset and its current fair value.
Impairment losses on available-for-sale equity instruments Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets are not reversed through profit or loss, but those on available-forthat are individually significant and individually or collectively for sale debt instruments are reversed, if there is an increase in fair assets that are not individually significant.
In making collective value that is objectively related to a subsequent event.
impairment assessments, financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk characteristics.
Financial liabilities flows from these portfolios are estimated on the basis of the Financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and contractual cash flows and historical loss experience for assets classified into held-for-trading: designated as at fair value through with similar credit risk characteristics.
Historical loss experience profit or loss: or amortised cost.
Issues of financial liabilities is adjusted, on the basis of observable data, to reflect current measured at amortised cost are recognised on settlement date: conditions not affecting the period of historical experience.
all other normal transactions in financial liabilities are recognised Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss and the on trade date.
carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets Held-for-trading - a financial liability is classified as held-forreduced by establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If, in trading if it is incurred principally for repurchase in the near term, a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss reduces or forms part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are and the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term impairment was recognised, the previously recognised loss is profit taking, or it is a derivative not in a qualifying hedge reversed by adjusting the allowance.
Once an impairment loss relationship.
Held-for-trading financial liabilities are recognised at has been recognised on a financial asset or group of financial fair value with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss.
assets, interest income is recognised on the carrying amount Subsequently they are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows are recognised in profit or loss as they arise.
were discounted in measuring impairment.
Designated as at fair value through profit or loss - financial Impaired loans and receivables are written off, i. e. the impairment liabilities may be designated as at fair value through profit or loss provision is applied in writing down the loan's carrying value only if such designation a eliminates or significantly reduces a partially or in full, when the Group concludes that there is no measurement or recognition inconsistency: or b applies to a longer any realistic prospect of recovery of part or all of the loan.
group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both that the For loans that are individually assessed for impairment, the Group manages and evaluates on a fair value basis: or c relates timing of write off is determined on a case-by-case basis.
Such to an instrument that contains an embedded derivative which is loans are reviewed regularly and write off will be prompted by not evidently closely related to the host contract.
bankruptcy, insolvency, renegotiation and similar events.
256 Accounting policies Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial recognition If substantially all the risks and rewards have been neither as being at fair value through profit or loss are recognised at fair retained nor transferred, the Group assesses whether or not it value, with transaction costs being recognised in profit or loss, has retained control of the asset.
If the Group has retained and are subsequently measured at fair value.
Income from control of the asset, it continues to recognise the asset to the trading activities includes gains and losses on held-for-trading extent of its continuing involvement: if the Group has not retained financial liabilities as they arise.
control of the asset, it is derecognised.
Financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or A financial liability is removed from the balance sheet when the loss principally comprise structured liabilities issued by the obligation is discharged, or is cancelled, or expires.
On the Group: designation significantly reduces the measurement redemption or settlement of debt securities including inconsistency between these liabilities and the related derivatives subordinated liabilities issued by the Group, the Group carried at fair value.
derecognises the debt instrument and records a gain or loss being the difference between the debt's carrying amount and the Amortised cost - all other financial liabilities are measured at cost of redemption or settlement.
The same treatment applies amortised cost using the effective interest method see where the debt is exchanged for a new debt issue that has terms Accounting policy 3. substantially different from those of the existing debt.
The assessment of whether the terms of the new debt instrument are Fair value - the Groups approach to determining the fair value of substantially different takes into account qualitative and financial instruments measured at fair value is set out in the quantitative characteristics including a comparison of the present section of Critical accounting policies and key sources of value of the cash flows under the new terms with the present estimation uncertainty entitled Fair value - financial instruments: value of the remaining cash flows of the original debt issue further details are given in Note 9 on the accounts.
discounted at the effective interest rate of the original debt issue.
Sale and repurchase transactions Under a financial guarantee contract, the Group, in return for a Securities subject to a sale and repurchase agreement under fee, undertakes to meet a customers obligations under the terms which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are of a debt instrument if the customer fails to do so.
A financial retained by the Group continue to be shown on the balance sheet guarantee is recognised as a liability: initially at fair value and, if and the sale proceeds recorded as a financial liability.
Securities not designated as at fair value through profit or loss, acquired in a reverse sale and repurchase transaction under subsequently at the higher of its initial value less cumulative which the Group is not exposed to substantially all the risks and amortisation and any provision under the contract measured in rewards of ownership are not recognised on the balance sheet accordance with Accounting policy 12.
Amortisation is calculated and the consideration paid is recorded as a financial asset.
so as to recognise fees receivable in profit or loss over the period of the guarantee.
Securities borrowing and lending transactions are usually secured by cash or securities advanced by the borrower.
Loan commitments Borrowed securities are not recognised on the balance sheet or Provision is made for loan commitments, other than those lent securities derecognised.
classified as held-for-trading, if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and the resulting loan will be recognised at an amount Cash collateral given or received is treated as a loan or deposit: less than the cash advanced.
Syndicated loan commitments in collateral in the form of securities is not recognised.
However, excess of the level of lending under the commitment approved for where securities borrowed are transferred to third parties, a retention by the Group are classified as held-for-trading and liability for the obligation to return the securities to the stock measured at fair value.
Netting A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual right to Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net receive cash flows from the asset has expired or when it has amount presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the been transferred and the transfer qualifies for derecognition.
A Group currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the transfer requires that the Group either a transfers the recognised amounts and it intends either to settle on a net basis contractual rights to receive the asset's cash flows: or b retains or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The the right to the asset's cash flows but assumes a contractual Group is party to a number of arrangements, including master obligation to pay those cash flows to a third party.
After a netting agreements, that give it the right to offset financial assets transfer, the Group assesses the extent to which it has retained and financial liabilities, but where it does not intend to settle the the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset.
The amounts net or simultaneously, the assets and liabilities asset remains on the balance sheet if substantially all the risks concerned are presented gross.
and rewards have been retained.
It is derecognised if substantially all the risks and rewards have been transferred.
Capital instruments Hedge accounting is also discontinued if the Group revokes the The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a designation of a hedge relationship.
liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets or financial Fair value hedge - in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms and as equity if it hedging instrument is recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after the loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is deduction of liabilities.
The components of a compound financial recognised in profit or loss and, where the hedged item is instrument issued by the Group are classified and accounted for measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying amount of the separately as financial assets, financial liabilities or equity as hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued if the hedge no appropriate.
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting: or if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised: or if hedge Incremental costs and related tax that are directly attributable to designation is revoked.
If the hedged item is one for which the an equity transaction are deducted from equity.
effective interest rate method is used, any cumulative adjustment is amortised to profit or loss over the life of the hedged item using The consideration for any ordinary shares of the company a recalculated effective interest rate.
purchased by the Group treasury shares is deducted from equity.
On the cancellation of treasury shares their nominal value Cash flow hedge - in a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of is removed from equity and any excess of consideration over the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in other nominal value is treated in accordance with the capital comprehensive income and the ineffective portion in profit or maintenance provisions of the Companies Act.
When the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a reissue of treasury shares the consideration received and related financial asset or financial liability, the cumulative gain or loss is tax are credited to equity, net of any directly attributable reclassified from equity to profit or loss in the same periods in incremental costs.
which the hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss.
Otherwise the cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and 23.
Derivatives and hedging recognised in profit or loss at the same time as the hedged Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised, and transaction.
Hedge accounting is discontinued if the hedge no subsequently measured, at fair value.
The Groups approach to longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting: if the hedging determining the fair value of financial instruments is set out in the instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised: if the section of Critical accounting policies and key sources of forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur: or if hedge estimation uncertainty entitled Fair value - financial instruments: designation is revoked.
On the discontinuance of hedge further details are given in Note 9 on the accounts.
accounting except where a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss is A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as a standreclassified from equity to profit or loss when the hedged cash alone derivative if its economic characteristics are not closely flows occur or, if the forecast transaction results in the recognition related to the economic characteristics of the host contract: of a financial asset or financial liability, when the hedged forecast unless the entire contract is measured at fair value with changes cash flows affect profit or loss.
Where a forecast transaction is no in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
longer expected to occur, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss is reclassified from equity to profit or loss immediately.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not the hedging instrument in a qualifying Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation - in the hedge of a hedge are recognised as they arise in profit or loss.
Gains and net investment in a foreign operation, the portion of foreign losses are recorded in Income from trading activities except for exchange differences arising on the hedging instrument gains and losses on those derivatives that are managed together determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in other with financial instruments designated at fair value: these gains comprehensive income.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in and losses are included in Other operating income.
Non-derivative financial liabilities as well as enters into three types of hedge relationship: hedges of changes derivatives may be the hedging instrument in a net investment in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or unrecognised hedge.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation, the firm commitment fair value hedges : hedges of the variability in amount accumulated in equity is reclassified from equity to profit cash flows from a recognised asset or liability or a highly or loss.
probable forecast transaction cash flow hedges : and hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation.
Associates and joint ventures An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant Hedge relationships are formally designated and documented at influence.
A joint venture is one which it controls jointly with other inception.
The documentation identifies the hedged item and the parties.
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures hedging instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and are recognised using the equity method.
They are stated initially the way in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and at cost, including attributable goodwill, and subsequently adjusted during the period of the hedge.
If the hedge is not highly effective for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets.
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented risk management strategy, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Share-based compensation Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation The Group operates a number of share-based compensation uncertainty schemes under which it awards RBSG shares and share options The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting to its employees.
Such awards are generally subject to vesting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation conditions: conditions that vary the amount of cash or shares to of its financial statements.
UK company law and IFRS require the which an employee is entitled.
Vesting conditions include service directors, in preparing the Group's financial statements, to select conditions requiring the employee to complete a specified period suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make of service and performance conditions requiring the employee judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
In to complete a specified period of service and specified the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8 performance targets to be met.
Other conditions to which an Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and award is subject are non-vesting conditions such as a Errors, requires management to develop and apply an requirement to save throughout the vesting period.
The cost of accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information employee services received in exchange for an award of shares in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with or share options granted is measured by reference to the fair similar and related issues and the IASB's Conceptual Framework value of the shares or share options on the date the award is for Financial Reporting.
The judgements and assumptions granted and takes into account non-vesting conditions and involved in the Group's accounting policies that are considered by market performance conditions conditions related to the market the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial price of RBSG shares : an award is treated as vesting condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, irrespective of whether any market performance condition or nonassumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the vesting condition is met.
The fair value of options granted is Group would affect its reported results.
estimated using valuation techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free interest rates, the current share price and its i Goodwill expected volatility.
The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of over the vesting period the period during which all the specified businesses, as discussed in Accounting policy 6.
The carrying vesting conditions must be satisfied with a corresponding value of goodwill as at 31 December 2017 was 5,558 million increase in equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding 2016 - 5,558 million.
The cost is adjusted for vesting conditions other than market performance conditions so as to Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest.
the fair value of its net assets.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or If an award is modified, the original cost continues to be changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
recognised as if there had been no modification.
Where modification increases the fair value of the award, this increase is Impairment testing in accordance with Accounting policy 8 recognised as an expense over the modified vesting period.
A inherently involves a number of judgmental areas: the new award of shares or share options is treated as the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that are beyond the modification of a cancelled award if, on the date the new award is normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment granted, the Group identifies them as replacing the cancelled of the discount rate appropriate to the business: estimation of the award.
The cancellation of an award through failure to meet nonfair value of cash-generating units: and the valuation of their vesting conditions triggers an immediate expense for any separable assets.
The sensitivity of the assessment to changes unrecognised element of the cost of an award.
in assumptions is discussed in Note 15 on the accounts.
Cash and cash equivalents ii Provisions for liabilities In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprises As set out in Note 20 on the accounts, at 31 December 2017 the cash and deposits with banks with an original maturity of less Group recognised provisions for liabilities in respect of Payment than three months together with short-term highly liquid Protection Insurance, 1,053 million 2016 - 1,253 million, other investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of customer redress, 870 million 2016 - 1,105 million, residential cash and subject to insignificant risk of change in value.
mortgage backed securities, 3,243 million 2016 - 6,752 million, litigation and other regulatory proceedings, 641 million 2016 - 1,918 million and property and other 1,950 million 2016 - 1,808 million.
259 Accounting policies Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount, and are iii Deferred tax recognised when there is a present obligation as a result of a The Group makes provision for deferred tax on temporary past event, the outflow of economic benefit is probable and the differences where tax recognition occurs at a different time from outflow can be estimated reliably.
Judgement is involved in accounting recognition.
Deferred tax assets of 1,740 million determining whether an obligation exists, and in estimating the were recognised as at 31 December 2017 2016 - 1,803 probability, timing and amount of any outflows.
can look to another party such as an insurer to pay some or all of the expenditure required to settle a provision, any reimbursement The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of is recognised when, and only when, it is virtually certain that it will losses, principally in the UK, and temporary differences.
tax assets are recognised in respect of unused tax losses and other temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that Payment Protection Insurance - the Group has established a there will be future taxable profits against which the losses and provision for redress payable in respect of the mis-selling of other temporary differences can be utilised.
The Group has Payment Protection Insurance policies.
The provision is considered their carrying value as at 31 December 2017 and managements best estimate of the anticipated costs of redress concluded that, based on managements estimates, sufficient and related administration expenses.
The determination of taxable profits will be generated in future years to recover appropriate assumptions to underpin the provision requires recognised deferred tax assets.
These estimates are based on significant judgement by management.
The principal assumptions forecast performance and take into account Brexit, the Groups underlying the provision together with sensitivities to changes in plans to implement the UK ring-fencing regime and the resultant those assumptions are given in Note 20 on the accounts.
transfers between members of the Group.
Provisions for litigation - the Group and members of the Group Deferred tax assets of 6,356 million 2016 - 7,940 million have are party to legal proceedings in the United Kingdom, the United not been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary States and other jurisdictions, arising out of their normal business differences where the availability of future taxable profits is operations.
The measurement and recognition of liabilities in uncertain.
Further details about the Groups deferred tax assets respect of litigation involves a high degree of management are given in Note 22 on the accounts.
Before the existence of a present obligation as the result of a past event can be confirmed, numerous facts may iv Loan impairment provisions need to be established, involving extensive and time-consuming The Group's loan impairment provisions are established to discovery, and novel or unsettled legal questions addressed.
recognise incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans Once it is determined there is an obligation, assessing the classified as loans and receivables and carried at amortised cost probability of economic outflows and estimating the amount of in accordance with Accounting policy 16.
At 31 December 2017, any liability can be very difficult.
In many proceedings, it is not customer loan impairment provisions amounted to 3,814 million possible to determine whether any loss is probable or to estimate 2016 - 4,455 million.
Furthermore, for an individual matter, there can be a wide range of possible outcomes and often it is A loan is impaired when there is objective evidence that events not practicable to quantify a range of such outcomes.
The since the loan was granted have affected expected cash flows Groups outstanding litigation is periodically assessed in from the loan.
Such objective evidence, indicative that a consultation with external professional advisers, where borrowers financial condition has deteriorated, can include for appropriate, to determine the likelihood of the Group incurring a loans that are individually assessed: the non-payment of interest liability.
A detailed description of the Groups material legal or principal: debt renegotiation: probable bankruptcy or proceedings and a discussion of the nature of the associated liquidation: significant reduction in the value of any security: uncertainties are given in Note 31 on the accounts.
breach of limits or covenants: and deteriorating trading performance and, for collectively assessed portfolios: the Tax contingencies - determining the Groups income tax charge borrowers payment status and observable data about relevant and its provisions for income taxes necessarily involves a macroeconomic measures.
significant degree of estimation and judgement.
The tax treatment of some transactions is uncertain and tax computations The impairment loss is the difference between the carrying value are yet to be agreed with the tax authorities in a number of of the loan and the present value of estimated future cash flows jurisdictions.
The Group recognises anticipated tax liabilities at the loan's original effective interest rate.
based on all available evidence and, where appropriate, in the light of external advice.
Any difference between the final outcome There are two components to the Group's loan impairment and the amounts provided will affect current and deferred income provisions: individual and collective.
tax assets and liabilities in the period when the matter is resolved.
260 Accounting policies Individual component - all impaired loans that exceed specific It also uses the assumptions that market participants would use thresholds are individually assessed for impairment.
Individually when pricing the asset or liability.
In determining fair value the assessed loans principally comprise the Group's portfolio of Group maximises the use of relevant observable inputs and commercial loans to medium and large businesses.
Impairment minimises the use of unobservable inputs.
losses are recognised as the difference between the carrying value of the loan and the discounted value of management's best Where the Group manages a group of financial assets and estimate of future cash repayments and proceeds from any financial liabilities on the basis of its net exposure to either security held.
These estimates take into account the customer's market risks or credit risk, it measures the fair value of a group of debt capacity and financial flexibility: the level and quality of its financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of the price earnings: the amount and sources of cash flows: the industry in that it would receive to sell a net long position i. e. an asset for a which the counterparty operates: and the realisable value of any particular risk exposure or to transfer a net short position i. e. a security held.
Estimating the quantum and timing of future liability for a particular risk exposure in an orderly transaction at recoveries involves significant judgement.
The size of receipts the measurement date under current market conditions.
will depend on the future performance of the borrower and the value of security, both of which will be affected by future Credit valuation adjustments are made when valuing derivative economic conditions: additionally, collateral may not be readily financial assets to incorporate counterparty credit risk.
The actual amount of future cash flows and the date Adjustments are also made when valuing financial liabilities they are received may differ from these estimates and measured at fair value to reflect the Groups own credit standing.
consequently actual losses incurred may differ from those recognised in these financial statements.
Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established using a valuation technique.
These valuation Collective component - this is made up of two elements: loan techniques involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which impairment provisions for impaired loans that are below individual depends on the instruments complexity and the availability of assessment thresholds collectively assessed provisions and for market-based data.
Further details about the Groups valuation loan losses that have been incurred but have not been separately methodologies and the sensitivity to reasonably possible identified at the balance sheet date latent loss provisions.
alternative assumptions of the fair value of financial instruments Collectively assessed provisions are established on a portfolio valued using techniques where at least one significant input is basis using a present value methodology taking into account the unobservable are given in Note 9 on the accounts.
level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant factors in Accounting developments establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates and the International Financial Reporting Standards related average life.
These portfolios include mortgages, credit A number of IFRSs and amendments to IFRS were in issue at card receivables and other personal lending.
The future credit 31 December 2017 that would affect the Group from 1 January quality of these portfolios is subject to uncertainties that could 2018 or later.
cause actual credit losses to differ materially from reported loan impairment provisions.
These uncertainties include the economic Effective 1 January 2018 - IFRS 9 environment, notably interest rates and their effect on customer In July 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments spending, the unemployment level, payment behaviour and with an effective date of 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 replaces the bankruptcy trends.
Latent loss provisions are held against current financial instruments standard IAS 39, setting out new estimated impairment losses in the performing portfolio that have accounting requirements in a number of areas.
yet to be identified as at the balance sheet date.
To assess the latent loss within its portfolios, the Group has developed The principle features of IFRS 9 are as follows: methodologies to estimate the time that an asset can remain impaired within a performing portfolio before it is identified and Recognition and derecognition reported as such.
The sections in IAS 39 setting out the criteria for the recognition and derecognition of financial instruments have been included v Fair value - financial instruments unamended in IFRS 9.
In accordance with Accounting policies 14, 16 and 23, financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at fair Classification and measurement value through profit or loss and financial assets classified as Financial assets - There are three classifications for financial available-for-sale are recognised in the financial statements at assets in IFRS 9. fair value.
All derivatives are measured at fair value.
Amortised cost - Financial assets with terms that give rise to interest and principal cash flows only and which are held in Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between to collect their cash flow are measured at amortised cost.
market participants at the measurement date.
A fair value measurement takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
261 Accounting policies Fair value through other comprehensive income - Financial The result is an increase in overall credit impairment provisions assets with terms that give rise to interest and principal cash when compared with the current basis of measurement under flows only and which are held in a business model whose IAS 39. objective is achieved by holding financial assets to collect their cash flow and selling them are measured at fair value Transition through other comprehensive income.
The classification and measurement and impairment Fair value through profit and loss - Other financial assets are requirements will be applied retrospectively by adjusting the measured at fair value through profit and loss.
opening balance sheet at the date of initial application, with no requirement to restate comparative periods.
Hedge accounting At initial recognition, any financial asset may be irrevocably will be applied prospectively from that date.
designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss if such designation eliminates a measurement or recognition In summary, on 1 January 2018, the impact on shareholders inconsistency.
equity was a 71 million post tax reduction in equity, comprising: Reclassification of financial instruments 561 million The measurement basis of the majority of the Groups financial pre tax increase in equity assets is unchanged on application of IFRS 9.
Change in impairment methodology 616 million pre tax reduction.
Financial liabilities Since early adopting in 2017 the IFRS 9 Net tax impact 16 million decrease.
accounting for fair value attributable to own credit risk there are no further material changes on accounting for financial liabilities There will be no restatement of accounts prior to 2018. on adoption of IFRS 9.
The Group has opted to early adopt the IFRS 9 amendment on Hedge accounting negative compensation with effect from 1 January 2018: this is IFRS 9s hedge accounting requirements are designed to align expected to be endorsed for use in the EU in early 2018. the accounting more closely to the risk management framework: permit a greater variety of hedging instruments: and remove or Effective 1 January 2018 other standards simplify some of the rule-based requirements in IAS 39.
The IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued in elements of hedge accounting: fair value, cash flow and net May 2014.
It will replace IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 investment hedges are retained.
The Group accounting policy Revenue and several Interpretations.
Contracts are bundled or choice is continue with the IAS 39 hedge accounting framework.
unbundled into distinct performance obligations with revenue recognised as the obligations are met.
A restatement is not Credit impairment expected on initial application of this standard.
IFRS 9s credit impairment requirements apply to financial assets measured at amortised cost, to those measured at fair value IFRS 2 Share-based payment was amended in June 2016 to through other comprehensive income, to lease receivables and to clarify the accounting for net settlement of tax in respect of sharecertain loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts.
On based payments and the calculation of the cost of modified initial recognition a loss allowance is established at an amount awards and those with vesting conditions that are not market equal to 12-month expected credit losses ECL that is the conditions.
IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency portion of life-time expected losses resulting from default events Transaction and Advance Consideration was issued in that are possible within the next 12 months.
Where a significant December 2016 clarifying the date of a foreign exchange increase in credit risk since initial recognition is identified, the loss transaction to be used on initial recognition of a related asset or allowance increases so as to recognise all expected default other item.
events over the expected life of the asset.
The Group expects that financial assets where there is objective evidence of IAS 40 Investment Property was amended in December 2016 to impairment under IAS 39 will be credit impaired under IFRS 9, clarify that transfers into or out of the investment property and carry loss allowances based on all expected default events.
classification may only occur on a change of use or the property ceasing to meet the definition of an investment property.
The assessment of credit risk and the estimation of ECL are required to be unbiased and probability-weighted: determined by On adoption, none of these standards are expected to have a evaluating at the balance sheet date for each customer or loan material effect on the Groups results.
portfolio a range of possible outcomes using reasonable and supportable information about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future events and economic conditions.
The estimation of ECL also takes into account the time value of money.
Recognition and measurement of credit impairments under IFRS 9 are more forward-looking than under IAS 39.
A Group-wide programme implemented the necessary changes in the modelling of credit loss parameters, and the underlying credit management and financial processes.
262 Accounting policies Effective after 2018 IFRS 17 Insurance contracts was issued in May 2017 to replace IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 to replace IAS 17 IFRS 4 and to establish a comprehensive standard for inceptors Leases.
There are no substantial changes to the accounting for of insurance policies.
The effective date is 1 January 2021. leases by lessors nor for finance leases: operating leases will be brought on balance sheet through the recognition of assets IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments representing the contractual rights of use, and liabilities will be was issued in June 2017 to clarify how to apply judgement in recognised for the contractual payments that exist.
The effective assessing the tax position of the reporting entity.
The effective date is 1 January 2019. date is 1 January 2019.
The Group is currently working on the implementation of the new In October 2017, the IASB amended IAS 28 Investments in requirements and currently anticipates that the property lease associates and joint ventures to require long term, non-equity portfolio will have the most significant implementation impact as interests in these investments to be tested for impairment first in property represents 87% of the operating lease commitments per accordance with IFRS 9 and then in accordance with IAS 28.
A preliminary estimate excluding the impacts of tax of effective date of the amendment is 1 January 2019. the opening balance sheet adjustment as a result of the property portfolio using a modified retrospective approach to transition In February 2018 the IASB amended IAS Employee Benefits to would be to create a Right of Use asset of c1.4bn, also clarify the need to update assumptions whenever there is a plan impacting RWAs and an estimated decrease excluding the amendment, curtailment or settlement during the reporting impacts of tax in retaining earnings of some c0.3bn.
The effective date is 1 January 2019. permitted by the standard, the Group intends to apply IFRS 16 on a retrospective basis but to take advantage of the option not to The Group is assessing the effect of adopting these standards on restate.
The Group will continue to work on the implementation its financial statements.
throughout 2018 and therefore this estimate of the impact is subject to change.
Changes could arise from the addition of non property leases, further development of calibration of models and processes, methodology and approach refinement, and sensitivity analysis performed on key assumptions such as discount factors and lease term.
263 Notes on the consolidated accounts 1 Net interest income 2017 2016 2015 m m m Loans and advances to customers 10,409 10,706 11,268 Loans and advances to banks 277 246 340 Debt securities 348 306 317 Interest receivable 1 11,034 11,258 11,925 Customer accounts: demand deposits 99 433 619 Customer accounts: savings deposits 445 432 446 Customer accounts: other time deposits 179 190 315 Balances with banks 175 97 45 Debt securities in issue 554 557 759 Subordinated liabilities 572 845 869 Internal funding of trading businesses 23 4 105 Interest payable 1 2,047 2,550 3,158 Net interest income 8,987 8,708 8,767 2 Non-interest income 2017 2016 2015 m m m Fees and commissions receivable Payment services 829 856 923 Credit and debit card fees 665 645 738 Lending credit facilities 1,060 1,044 1,076 Brokerage 148 154 262 Investment management 249 250 305 Trade finance 173 196 242 Other 214 195 196 3,338 3,340 3,742 Fees and commissions payable Banking 883 805 809 Income from trading activities Foreign exchange 525 989 809 Interest rate 50 480 35 Credit 197 336 80 Changes in fair value of own debt and derivative liabilities attributable to own credit - debt securities in issue 81 87 252 - derivative liabilities 12 67 2 Equities and other 31 25 42 634 974 1,060 Loss on redemption of own debt 7 126 263 Other operating income Operating lease and other rental income 276 287 276 Changes in the fair value of own debt designated as at fair value through profit or loss attributable to own credit risk 2 - debt securities in issue 41 84 - subordinated liabilities 15 29 Other changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss and related derivatives 99 13 375 Changes in the fair value of investment properties 14 11 2 Profit loss on sale of securities 226 71 4 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 75 18 91 Profit loss on sale of subsidiaries and associates 245 273 102 Loss on disposal or settlement of loans and receivables 35 277 558 Share of profits of associated entities 104 59 140 Other income 3 88 66 151 Non-interest income 1,064 499 426 Notes: 1 Negative interest on loans and advances is classed as interest payable and on customer deposits is classed as interest receivable.
2 Measured as the change in fair value from movements in the year in the credit risk premium payable by RBS.
Ahead of adopting IFRS9 Financial Instruments from 1 January 2018, RBS has adopted the provisions in respect of the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss from 1 January 2017.
3 Includes income from activities other than banking.
264 Notes on the consolidated accounts 3 Operating expenses 2017 2016 2015 m m m Salaries 2,765 3,097 3,177 Variable compensation 298 281 314 Temporary and contract costs 415 674 638 Social security costs 318 388 344 Share-based compensation 17 32 36 Pension costs - defined benefit schemes see Note 4 309 267 523 - loss gain on curtailments or settlements see Note 4 66 1 65 - defined contribution schemes 92 89 74 Severance 255 229 511 Other 141 66 174 Staff costs 4,676 5,124 5,726 Premises and equipment 1,565 1,388 1,827 UK bank levy 215 190 230 Other administrative expenses 1 3,108 8,555 6,058 Property, plant and equipment depreciation and write down see Note 16 586 574 950 Intangible assets amortisation see Note 15 222 204 230 Depreciation and amortisation 808 778 1,180 Write down of goodwill and other intangible assets see Note 15 29 159 1,332 Operating expenses 10,401 16,194 16,353 Restructuring and divestment costs Included in operating expenses are the following restructuring and divestment costs: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Staff costs 753 642 830 Premises, equipment, depreciation and amortisation 471 164 746 Other administrative expenses 2 341 1,300 1,355 Total 1,565 2,106 2,931 Notes: 1 Includes litigation and conduct costs, net of amounts recovered.
Further details are provided in Note 20.
2 Includes other administrative expenses, write down of goodwill and other intangible assets.
265 Notes on the consolidated accounts 3 Operating expenses continued The average number of persons employed, rounded to the nearest hundred, in continuing operations during the year, excluding temporary staff, was 73,400 2016 - 82,400: 2015 - 88,800 : on the same basis there were no people employed in discontinued operations 2016 - nil: 2015 - 10,100.
Re-presented to reflect segment reorganisation.
Share-based payments As described in the Remuneration report on page 103, the Group grants share-based awards to employees principally on the following bases: Award plan Eligible employees Nature of award Vesting conditions 1 Settlement Sharesave UK, Republic of Ireland, Option to buy shares under Continuing employment or 2018 to 2022 Channel Islands, Gibraltar employee savings plan leavers in certain circumstances and Isle of Man Deferred performance All Awards of ordinary shares Continuing employment or 2018 to 2024 awards leavers in certain circumstances Long-term incentives 2 Senior employees Awards of conditional Continuing employment or 2018 to 2024 shares or share options leavers in certain circumstances and or achievement of performance conditions Notes: 1 All awards have vesting conditions and therefore some may not vest.
2 Long-term incentives include the Executive Share Option Plan, the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Employee Share Plan.
266 Notes on the consolidated accounts 3 Operating expenses continued The fair value of options granted in 2017 was determined using a pricing model that included: expected volatility of shares determined at the grant date based on historical volatility over a period of up to five years: expected option lives that equal the vesting period: no dividends on equity shares: and risk-free interest rates determined from UK gilts with terms matching the expected lives of the options.
The strike price of options and the fair value on granting awards of fully paid shares is the average market price over the five trading days three trading days for Sharesave preceding grant date.
Sharesave 2017 2016 2015 Average Shares Average Shares Average Shares exercise price under option exercise price under option exercise price under option million million million At 1 January 2.46 56 2.87 56 2.85 51 Granted 2.27 21 1.68 17 2.91 12 Exercised 2.46 3 2.37 2.38 2 Cancelled 2.49 14 3.02 17 2.98 5 At 31 December 2.38 60 2.46 56 2.87 56 Options are exercisable within six months of vesting: 3.7 million options were exercisable at 31 December 2017 2016 8.1 million: 2015 - 1.0 million.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of options was 2.77 2016 - 1.78: 2015 - 3.54.
The fair value of options granted in 2017 was 21 million 2016 - 18 million: 2015 - 12 million.
Deferred performance awards 2017 2016 2015 Value at Shares Value at Shares Value at Shares grant awarded grant awarded grant awarded m million m million m million At 1 January 296 102 276 80 272 85 Granted 152 63 170 75 186 50 Forfeited 11 4 19 7 34 11 Vested 173 60 131 46 148 44 At 31 December 264 101 296 102 276 80 The awards granted in 2017 vest in three equal tranches on their anniversaries.
Long-term incentives 2017 2016 2015 Value Shares Options Value at Shares Options Value at Shares Options at grant awarded over shares grant awarded over shares grant awarded over shares m million million m million million m million million At 1 January 119 38 4 153 44 5 214 69 7 Granted 35 15 37 16 39 11 Vested exercised 22 7 39 12 51 18 2 Lapsed 30 9 2 32 10 1 49 18 At 31 December 102 37 2 119 38 4 153 44 5 The market value of awards vested exercised in 2017 was 22 million 2016 - 40 million: 2015 - 55 million.
There are vested options of 2 million shares exercisable up to 2020 2016 - 4 million: 2015 - 5 million.
267 Notes on the consolidated accounts 3 Operating expenses continued Variable compensation awards The following tables analyse the Group variable compensation awards for 2017.
Group 2017 2016 Change m m % Non-deferred cash awards 2 51 56 9 Total non-deferred variable compensation 51 56 9 Deferred bond awards 134 138 3 Deferred share awards 157 149 5 Total deferred variable compensation 291 287 1 Total variable compensation 3 342 343 Variable compensation as a % of adjusted operating profit 4 7% 9% Proportion of variable compensation that is deferred 85% 84% of which - deferred bond awards 46% 48% - deferred share awards 54% 52% 2017 2016 2015 Reconciliation of variable compensation awards to income statement charge m m m Variable compensation awarded 342 343 373 Less: deferral of charge for amounts awarded for current year 133 103 97 Income statement charge for amounts awarded in current year 209 240 276 Add: current year charge for amounts deferred from prior years 96 147 140 Less: forfeiture of amounts deferred from prior years 7 106 102 Income statement charge for amounts deferred from prior years 89 41 38 Income statement charge for variable compensation 3 298 281 314 Actual Expected 2019 Year in which income statement charge is expected to be taken 2015 2016 2017 2018 and beyond for deferred variable compensation m m m m m Variable compensation deferred from 2015 and earlier 140 147 16 6 1 Variable compensation deferred from 2016 80 20 13 Less: forfeiture of amounts deferred from prior years 102 106 7 Variable compensation for 2017 deferred 89 44 38 41 89 115 58 Notes: 1 The tables above relate to continuing businesses only.
2 Cash awards are limited to 2,000 for all employees.
3 Excludes other performance related compensation.
4 Adjusted operating profit before variable compensation expense.
268 Notes on the consolidated accounts 4 Pensions Defined contribution schemes The Main scheme corporate trustee is RBS Pension Trustee The Group sponsors a number of defined contribution pension Limited the Trustee, a wholly owned subsidiary of National schemes in different territories, which new employees are offered Westminster Bank Plc, Principal Employer of the Main scheme.
The Board of the Trustee comprises four member trustee directors selected from eligible active staff, deferred and Defined benefit schemes pensioner members who apply and six appointed by the Group.
The Group sponsors a number of pension schemes in the UK Under UK legislation a defined benefit pension scheme is and overseas, including the Main section of The Royal Bank of required to meet the statutory funding objective of having Scotland Group Pension Fund the Main scheme which sufficient and appropriate assets to cover its liabilities the operates under UK trust law and is managed and administered pensions that have been promised to members.
on behalf of its members in accordance with the terms of the trust deed, the scheme rules and UK legislation.
Similar governance principles apply to the Groups other pension schemes.
Pension fund trustees are appointed to operate each fund and ensure benefits are paid in accordance with the scheme rules Investment strategy and national law.
The trustees are the legal owner of a schemes The assets of the Main scheme, which represent 90% of plan assets, and have a duty to act in the best interests of all scheme assets at 31 December 2017 2016 - 89%, are invested in a members.
diversified portfolio of quoted and private equity, government and corporate fixed-interest and index-linked bonds, and other assets The schemes generally provide a pension of one-sixtieth of final including real estate and infrastructure.
pensionable salary for each year of service prior to retirement up to a maximum of 40 years and are contributory for current The Main scheme employs derivative instruments to achieve a members.
These have been closed to new entrants some ten desired asset class exposure and to reduce the schemes interest years ago, although current members continue to build up rate, inflation and currency risk.
This means that the net funding additional pension benefits, currently subject to 2% maximum position is considerably less sensitive to changes in market annual salary inflation, while they remain employed by the Group.
conditions than the value of the assets or liabilities in isolation.
Main scheme 2017 2016 Major classes of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets % % Quoted assets Quoted equities - Consumer industry 6.7 4.6 - Manufacturing industry 1.8 1.8 - Energy and utilities 3.6 2.7 - Financial institutions 7.8 8.3 - Technology and telecommunications 1.9 2.3 - Other 0.1 0.8 Private equity 4.0 3.4 Index-linked bonds 30.6 31.4 Government fixed interest bonds 9.2 5.9 Corporate fixed interest bonds 15.8 17.9 Unquoted assets Corporate and other bonds 1.0 1.8 Hedge funds 0.2 Real estate 5.2 5.2 Derivatives 8.1 10.2 Cash and other assets 4.2 3.4 Equity exposure of equity futures 3.6 1.8 Cash exposure of equity futures 3.6 1.9 100.0 100.0 269 Notes on the consolidated accounts 4 Pensions continued The Main schemes holdings of derivative instruments are summarised in the table below: 2017 2016 Notional Fair value Notional Fair value amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities bn m m bn m m Inflation rate swaps 11 310 555 12 299 549 Interest rate swaps 44 8,161 4,779 41 9,440 5,442 Currency forwards 12 160 34 15 191 136 Equity and bond call options 2 428 2 799 1 Equity and bond put options 3 3 1 2 2 Other 4 327 444 4 1,719 1,816 Collateral is required on all swap transactions.
The counterparty The investment strategy of other schemes is similar to that of the banks had delivered a net amount of 3,436 million of collateral Main scheme, adjusted to take account of the nature of liabilities, at 31 December 2017 2016 - 3,991 million.
risk appetite of the trustees, size of the scheme and any local regulatory constraints.
The schemes do not invest directly in the Group but can have exposure to the Group within their investment programmes Swaps are used to manage interest rate and inflation risk of the through indirect exposure to ordinary shares of the Group liabilities, as well as being used to manage other risks within the through index tracking investments, swaps contracts before Main scheme.
They have been executed at prevailing market allowing for collateral posted against the mark value of the rates and within standard market bid offer spreads with a number swaps and cash deposits placed with National Westminster of counterparty banks, including The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
The trustees of the respective schemes are responsible for ensuring that indirect investments in the Group do At 31 December 2017, the gross notional value of the swaps was not exceed the 5% regulatory limit.
57 billion 2016 - 56 billion and had a net positive fair value of 3,045 million 2016 - 3,629 million.
Amounts in the Financial statements The Group recognises the net pension scheme surplus or deficit as a net asset or liability.
In doing so, the funded status is adjusted to reflect any schemes with a surplus that the Group may not be able to access, as well as any minimum funding requirement to pay in additional contributions.
This is most relevant to the Main scheme, where the current surplus is not recognised.
All schemes 2017 2016 Amounts recognised on the balance sheet m m Fund assets at fair value 49,746 49,229 Present value of fund liabilities 42,378 43,990 Funded status 7,368 5,239 Asset ceiling minimum funding 7,105 5,326 263 87 2017 2016 Net pension asset liability comprises m m Net assets of schemes in surplus included in Prepayments, accrued income and other assets, Note 17 392 276 Net liabilities of schemes in deficit 129 363 263 87 270 Notes on the consolidated accounts 4 Pensions continued Main scheme All schemes Present value Asset Net Present value Asset Net Fair of defined ceiling pension Fair of defined ceiling pension value of benefit minimum liability value of benefit minimum liability plan assets obligation funding 1 asset plan assets obligation funding 1 asset Changes in value of net pension liability asset m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 30,703 30,966 2,981 3,244 34,708 35,152 3,130 3,574 Currency translation and other adjustments 533 602 69 Income statement Net interest expense 1,310 1,184 116 10 1,454 1,327 122 5 Current service cost 199 199 264 264 Past service cost 28 28 8 8 Loss on curtailments or settlements 1 1 1,310 1,411 116 217 1,454 1,600 122 268 Statement of comprehensive income Return on plan assets above recognised interest income 8,562 8,562 9,254 9,254 Experience gains and losses 658 658 794 794 Effect of changes in actuarial financial assumptions 8,803 8,803 9,565 9,565 Effect of changes in actuarial demographic assumptions 402 402 542 542 Asset ceiling minimum funding adjustments 1,876 1,876 2,074 2,074 8,562 7,743 1,876 1,057 9,254 8,229 2,074 1,049 Contributions by employer 4,518 4,518 4,786 4,786 Contributions by plan participants and other scheme members 12 12 Liabilities extinguished upon settlement 43 130 87 Benefits paid 1,269 1,269 1,475 1,475 At 1 January 2017 43,824 38,851 4,973 49,229 43,990 5,326 87 Currency translation and other adjustments 46 46 3 3 Income statement Net interest expense 1,155 1,021 134 1,285 1,140 142 3 Current service cost 226 226 292 292 Past service cost 19 19 20 20 Loss on curtailments or settlement 66 66 1,155 1,266 134 245 1,285 1,518 142 375 Statement of comprehensive income Return on plan assets above recognised interest income 1,580 1,580 1,728 1,728 Experience gains and losses 107 107 93 93 Effect of changes in actuarial financial assumptions 678 678 737 737 Effect of changes in actuarial demographic assumptions 794 794 826 826 Asset ceiling minimum funding adjustments 1,608 1,608 1,634 1,634 1,580 9 1,608 19 1,728 4 1,634 90 Contributions by employer 264 264 627 627 Contributions by plan participants and other scheme members 4 4 10 10 Liabilities extinguished upon settlement 744 755 11 Benefits paid 2,175 2,175 2,435 2,435 At 31 December 2017 44,652 37,937 6,715 49,746 42,378 7,105 263 Notes: 1 In recognising the net surplus or deficit of a pension scheme, the funded status of each scheme is adjusted to reflect any minimum funding requirement imposed on the sponsor and any ceiling on the amount that the sponsor has an unconditional right to recover from a scheme.
2 The Group expects to make contributions to the Main scheme of 190 million in 2018.
271 Notes on the consolidated accounts 4 Pensions continued The triennial funding valuation of the Main scheme as at 31 Funding and contributions by the Group December 2015 determined the funding level to be 84%, pension In the UK, the Trustees of defined benefit pension schemes are liabilities to be 37 billion and the deficit to be 5.8 billion, required to perform funding valuations every three years.
The subsequently reduced by a 4.2 billion cash payment in March Trustees and the Company, with the support of the Scheme 2016.
Investment returns over the next 10 year period were Actuary, agree the assumptions used to value the liabilities and a forecast to absorb the 1.6 billion balance of the deficit.
The Schedule of Contributions required to eliminate any funding average cost of the future service of current members is 35% of deficit.
The funding assumptions incorporate a margin for basic salary before contributions from those members: it includes prudence over and above the expected cost of providing the the expenses of running the scheme.
benefits promised to members, taking into account the sponsors covenant and the investment strategy of the scheme.
Similar Assumptions arrangements apply in the other territories where the Group Placing a value on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes sponsors defined benefit pension schemes.
The last funding liabilities requires the Groups management to make a number of valuation of the Main scheme was at 31 December 2015 and assumptions, with the support of independent actuaries who next funding valuation is due at 31 December 2018, to be agreed provide advice and guidance to the Group.
The ultimate cost of by 31 March 2020. the defined benefit obligations to the Group will depend upon actual future events and the assumptions made are unlikely to be exactly borne out in practice, meaning the final cost may be higher or lower than expected.
The most significant assumptions used for the Main scheme are shown below: Principal IAS 19 Principal assumptions of 2015 triennial valuation actuarial assumptions 2017 2016 2015 % % Discount rate 2.6 2.7 Fixed interest swap yield curve plus 1.5% per annum at all durations Inflation assumption RPI 3.1 3.2 Retail price index RPI swap yield curve Rate of increase in salaries 1.8 1.8 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.0 3.2 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.9 3.0 RPI floor 0%, cap 5% : Limited price indexation LPI 0,5 swap yield curve Proportion of pension converted to a cash lump sum at retirement 21 21 21% Longevity at age 60 for current pensioners years Males 27.2 27.4 28.4 Females 28.7 29.1 30.2 Longevity at age 60 for future pensioners currently aged 40 years Males 28.6 29.0 29.9 Females 30.4 31.2 32.4 Significant judgement is required when setting the criteria for Discount rate bonds to be included in the population from which the yield curve The Group discounts its defined benefit pension obligations at is derived.
discount rates determined by reference to the yield on high quality corporate bonds.
The criteria include issue size, quality of pricing and the exclusion of outliers.
Judgement is also required in determining the shape The sterling yield curve applied to 96% of the Groups defined of the yield curve at long durations: a constant credit spread benefit obligations is constructed by reference to yields on AA relative to gilts is assumed.
corporate bonds from which a single discount rate is derived based on a cash flow profile similar in structure and duration to the pension obligations.
The weighted average duration of the Main schemes defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2017 is 21 years 2016 20.9 years.
272 Notes on the consolidated accounts 4 Pensions continued The table below shows how the present value of the defined benefit obligation would change if the key assumptions used were changed.
The sensitivity analysis presented below may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the changes in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Main scheme decrease increase in obligation at 31 December 2017 2016 m m 0.25% increase in the discount rate 1,964 1,978 0.25% increase in inflation 1,329 1,552 0.25% additional rate of increase in pensions in payment 1,328 1,339 Longevity increase of one year 1,478 1,522 The defined benefit obligation is attributable to the different classes of scheme members in the following proportions Main scheme : 2017 2016 Membership category % % Active members 16.2 18.1 Deferred members 47.3 45.9 Pensioners and dependants 36.5 36.0 100.0 100.0 The experience history of Group schemes is shown below: Main Scheme All schemes 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 History of defined benefit schemes m m m m m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets 44,652 43,824 30,703 30,077 24,272 49,746 49,229 34,708 34,359 28,488 Present value of plan obligations 37,937 38,851 30,966 31,776 26,958 42,378 43,990 35,152 36,643 31,484 Net surplus deficit 6,715 4,973 263 1,699 2,686 7,368 5,239 444 2,284 2,996 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 107 658 233 3 102 93 794 258 18 176 Experience gains losses on plan assets 1,580 8,562 415 4,629 986 1,728 9,254 458 5,171 1,097 Actual return on plan assets 2,735 9,872 703 5,766 1,997 3,013 10,708 749 6,485 2,270 Actual return on plan assets - % 6.2% 32.2% 2.3% 23.8% 8.9% 6.1% 30.9% 2.2% 22.8% 8.6% 273 Notes on the consolidated accounts 5 Auditors remuneration Amounts paid to the Group's auditors for statutory audit and other services are set out below.
All audit-related and other services are approved by the Group Audit Committee and are subject to strict controls to ensure the external auditors independence is unaffected by the provision of other services.
The Group Audit Committee recognises that for certain assignments the auditors are best placed to perform the work economically: for other work the Group selects the supplier best placed to meet its requirements.
The Groups auditors are permitted to tender for such work in competition with other firms where the work is permissible under audit independence rules.
On 24 March 2016 Deloitte LLP Deloitte resigned as the Groups auditors and at the Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2016 the shareholders approved the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP EY as the Groups auditor for the audit of the 2016 annual accounts.
EY remain the Groups auditors for the audit of the 2017 annual accounts.
Amounts paid to the Group's auditors for statutory audit and other services are set out below: 2017 2016 1 EY m m Fees payable for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 4.0 4.0 - the audit of the companys subsidiaries 22.9 20.7 - audit-related assurance services 2 4.3 4.0 Total audit and audit-related assurance services fees 31.2 28.7 Other assurance services 1.7 3.4 Corporate finance services 3 0.2 0.2 Total other services 1.9 3.6 2017 2016 4 Deloitte m m Fees payable to the auditor and its associates for other services to the Group - the audit of the companys subsidiaries 0.2 - audit-related assurance services 5 0.5 Total audit and audit-related assurance services fees 0.7 Other assurance services 0.1 Corporate finance services 6 1.3 Total other services 1.4 Fees payable to the auditor and its associates in respect of audits of associated pension schemes 0.1 Total 2.2 Notes: 1 Includes fees for the period EY were principal Group auditor 2016 - 1 January 2016 31 December 2016: Deloitte 2016 to effective resignation on 24 March 2016.
2 Comprises fees of 1.1 million 2016 - 1.1 million in relation to reviews of interim financial information, 2.5 million 2016 - 2.2 million in respect of reports to the Groups regulators in the UK and overseas, 0.7 million 2016 - 0.7 million in relation to non-statutory audit opinions.
3 Comprises fees of 0.2 million 2016 - 0.2 million in respect of work performed by the auditors as reporting accountants on debt and equity issuances undertaken by the Group.
4 Includes fees for the period Deloitte were principal Group auditor 2016 1 January 2016 to effective resignation on 24 March 2016 5 Comprises no fees 2016 - nil in relation to revenues of interim financial information, no fees 2016 - 10 million in respect of reports to the Groups regulators in the UK and overseas, no fees 2016 - 0.2 million in respect of internal controls assurance, and no fees in relation to non-statutory audit opinions.
6 Comprises no fees 2016 1.4 million in respect of work performed by the auditors as reporting accountants as debt and equity issuances undertake by the Group, including securitisations, no fees 2016 - 0.1 million, and no fees 2016 nil in relation to working capital report in correction with a circular to shareholders.
274 Notes on the consolidated accounts 6 Tax 2017 2016 2015 m m m Current tax: Charge for the year 1,018 1,126 249 Over provision in respect of prior years 227 186 220 791 940 29 Deferred tax: Credit for the year 108 246 Reduction in the carrying value of deferred tax assets 30 317 Under over provision in respect of prior years 111 155 6 Tax charge for the year 824 1,166 23 The actual tax charge differs from the expected tax charge computed by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 19.25% 2016 20.00%: 2015 20.25% as follows: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Expected tax charge credit 431 816 547 Losses and temporary differences in year where no deferred tax asset recognised 303 742 1,086 Foreign profits taxed at other rates 104 340 510 UK tax rate change impact 1 7 6 94 Non-deductible goodwill impairment 124 Items not allowed for tax: - losses on disposals and write-downs 69 45 23 - UK bank levy 45 41 50 - regulatory and legal actions 56 952 232 - other disallowable items 110 141 199 Non-taxable items 134 136 173 Taxable foreign exchange movements 27 57 19 Losses brought forward and utilised 11 10 122 Reduction in carrying value of deferred tax asset in respect of: - UK losses 30 317 Banking surcharge 165 210 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2 116 31 226 Actual tax charge 824 1,166 23 Notes: 1 In recent years, the UK government has steadily reduced the rate of UK corporation tax, with the latest enacted rates standing at 20% with effect from 1 April 2015, 19% from 1 April 2017 and 17% from 1 April 2020.
The Finance No 2 Act 2015 restricts the rate at which tax losses are given credit in future periods to the main rate of UK corporation tax, excluding the Banking Surcharge 8% rate introduced by this Act.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2017 take into account the reduced rates in respect of tax losses and non-banking temporary differences and where appropriate, the banking surcharge inclusive rate in respect of other banking temporary differences.
2 Prior year tax adjustments incorporate refinements to tax computations made on submission and agreement with the tax authorities.
Current taxation balances include provisions in respect of uncertain tax positions, in particular in relation to restructuring and other costs where the taxation treatment remains subject to agreement with the relevant tax authorities.
275 Notes on the consolidated accounts 7 Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per ordinary share have been calculated based on the following: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Earnings Profit loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 752 6,955 1,979 Loss from discontinued operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 1,207 Profit loss from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 752 6,955 3,186 Weighted average number of shares millions 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year 11,867 11,692 11,516 Effect of dilutive share options and convertible securities 69 51 60 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year 11,936 11,743 11,576 Note: 1 All periods include the effect of 51 billion B shares that were converted to 5.1 billion ordinary shares in October 2015 see Note 25.
There were no basic earnings loss per ordinary share from On 22 March 2016 the DAS was retired on payment the final discontinued operations 2016 - nil: 2015 10.5p.
There were no dividend of 1,193 million to HMT: the DAS was re-designated as diluted earnings per ordinary share from discontinued operations a single B share which was then cancelled.
Earnings per share for periods ended after 25 June 2014 and An agreement on 25 June 2014 between RBS and Her Majestys prior to the retirement of the DAS reflect DAS dividends Treasury HMT set out the terms for the retirement of the recognised before the end of a reporting period: this amounted to Dividend Access Share DAS.
8 Financial instruments - classification The following tables analyse financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instruments in IAS 39.
Assets and liabilities outside the scope of IAS 39 are shown within other assets and other liabilities.
2 The carrying amount of other customer accounts designated as at fair value through profit or loss is 114 million 2016 - 155 million higher than the principal amount.
No amounts have been recognised in profit or loss for changes in credit risk associated with these liabilities as the changes are immaterial both during the period and cumulatively.
Measured as the change in fair value from movements in the period in the credit risk premium payable.
3 Comprises bonds and medium term notes of 25,922 million 2016 - 24,037 million and certificates of deposit and other commercial paper of 4,637 million 2016 - 3,208 million.
Amounts included in operating profit loss before tax: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Gains on financial assets liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss 60 13 388 Losses on disposal or settlement of loans and receivables 35 277 558 277 Notes on the consolidated accounts 8 Financial instruments - classification continued The tables below present information on financial assets and financial liabilities that are offset on the balance sheet under IFRS or subject to enforceable master netting agreement together with financial collateral received or given.
Where offset is available but not recognised under IFRS, this is reflected in the cash collateral column.
278 Notes on the consolidated accounts 9 Financial instruments - valuation Valuation hierarchy Valuation of financial instruments carried at fair value Initial classification of a financial instrument is carried out by the Control environment Product Control team following the principles in IFRS 13.
They RBS's control environment for the determination of the fair value base their judgment on information gathered during the IPV of financial instruments includes formalised protocols for the process for instruments which include the sourcing of review and validation of fair values independent of the independent prices and model inputs.
The quality and businesses entering into the transactions.
There are specific completeness of the information gathered in the IPV process controls to ensure consistent pricing policies and procedures, gives an indication as to the liquidity and valuation uncertainty of incorporating disciplined price verification.
RBS ensures that an instrument.
appropriate attention is given to bespoke transactions, structured products, illiquid products and other instruments which are These initial classifications are reviewed and challenged by the difficult to price.
Pricing Unit and are also subject to senior management review.
Particular attention is paid to instruments crossing from one level Independent price verification IPV to another, new instrument classes or products, instruments that IPV is a key element of the control environment.
Valuations are are generating significant profit and loss and instruments where first performed by the business which entered into the valuation uncertainty is high.
Such valuations may be directly from available prices, or may be derived using a model and variable model Valuation techniques inputs.
These valuations are reviewed, and if necessary RBS derives fair value of its instruments differently depending on amended, by a team independent of those trading the financial whether the instrument is a non-modelled or a modelled product.
instruments, in the light of available pricing evidence.
Non-modelled products IPV differences are classified according to the quality of Non-modelled products are valued directly from a price input independent market observables into IPV quality bands linked to typically on a position by position basis and include cash, equities the fair value hierarchy principles, as laid out in IFRS 13 Fair and most debt securities.
These differences are classified into fair value levels 1, 2 and 3 with the valuation uncertainty risk Modelled products increasing as the levels rise from 1 to 3 and then further Modelled products valued using a pricing model range in classified into high, medium, low and indicative depending on the complexity from comparatively vanilla products such as interest quality of the independent data available to validate the prices.
rate swaps and options e. g. interest rate caps and floors Valuations are revised if they are outside agreed thresholds.
through to more complex derivatives.
The valuation of modelled products requires an appropriate model and inputs into this Governance framework model.
Sometimes models are also used to derive inputs e. g. to IPV takes place at least each month end date, for all fair value construct volatility surfaces.
RBS uses a number of modelling positions.
The IPV control includes formalised reporting and methodologies.
escalation of any valuation differences in breach of established thresholds.
The Pricing Unit determines IPV policy, monitors Inputs to valuation models adherence to that policy and performs additional independent Values between and beyond available data points are obtained reviews of highly subjective valuation issues.
When utilising valuation techniques, the fair value can be significantly affected by the The Modelled Product Review Committee sets the policy for choice of valuation model and by underlying assumptions model documentation, testing and review, and prioritises models concerning factors such as the amounts and timing of cash flows, with significant exposure being reviewed by the RBS Pricing discount rates and credit risk.
The principal inputs to these Model Risk team.
The NatWest Markets Valuation Committee is valuation techniques are as follows: made up of valuation specialists and senior business Bond prices - quoted prices are generally available for representatives from various functions and oversee pricing, government bonds, certain corporate securities and some reserving and valuations issues.
This committee meets monthly mortgage-related products.
to review and ratify any methodology changes.
The Executive Credit spreads - where available, these are derived from Valuation Committee meets quarterly to address key material and prices of credit default swaps or other credit based subjective valuation issues, to review items escalated by the instruments, such as debt securities.
For others, credit NatWest Markets Valuation Committee and to discuss other spreads are obtained from pricing services.
For counterparty relevant matters including prudential valuation.
credit spreads, adjustments are made to market prices or parameters when the creditworthiness of the counterparty differs from that of the assumed counterparty in the market price or parameters.
279 Notes on the consolidated accounts 9 Financial instruments - valuation continued Where unobservable inputs are used, RBS may determine a Interest rates - these are principally benchmark interest range of possible valuations derived from differing stress rates such as the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR, scenarios to determine the sensitivity associated with the Overnight Index Swaps OIS rate and other quoted interest valuation.
When establishing the fair value of a financial rates in the swap, bond and futures markets.
instrument using a valuation technique, RBS considers Foreign currency exchange rates - there are observable adjustments to the modelled price which market participants prices both for spot and forward contracts and futures in the would make when pricing that instrument.
Such adjustments world's major currencies.
include the credit quality of the counterparty and adjustments to Equity and equity index prices - quoted prices are generally compensate for model limitations.
readily available for equity shares listed on the world's major stock exchanges and for major indices on such shares.
Valuation reserves Commodity prices - many commodities are actively traded in When valuing financial instruments in the trading book, spot and forward contracts and futures on exchanges in adjustments are made to mid-market valuations to cover bid-offer London, New York and other commercial centres.
spread, liquidity and credit risk.
A breakdown of valuation Price volatilities and correlations - volatility is a measure of adjustments is provided in Capital and risk management: Balance the tendency of a price to change with time.
Correlation sheet analysis - derivatives on page 204. measures the degree which two or more prices or other variables are observed to move together.
Credit valuation adjustments CVA Prepayment rates - the fair value of a financial instrument CVA represent an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that a that can be prepaid by the issuer or borrower differs from market participant would make to incorporate the counterparty that of an instrument that cannot be prepaid.
In valuing credit risk inherent in derivative exposures.
CVA is actively prepayable instruments that are not quoted in active managed by a credit and market risk hedging process, and markets, RBS considers the value of the prepayment option.
therefore movements in CVA are partially offset by trading Recovery rates loss given default - these are used as an revenue on the hedges.
input to valuation models and reserves for asset-backed securities and other credit products as an indicator of The CVA is calculated on a portfolio basis reflecting an estimate severity of losses on default.
Recovery rates are primarily of the amount a third party would charge to assume the credit sourced from market data providers or inferred from risk.
Where a positive exposure exists to a counterparty that is Consensus pricing considered to be close to default, the CVA is calculated by RBS uses consensus prices for the IPV of some instruments.
The applying expected losses to the current level of exposure.
consensus service encompasses the equity, interest rate, Otherwise, expected losses are applied to estimated potential currency, commodity, credit, property, fund and bond markets, future positive exposures which are modelled to reflect the providing comprehensive matrices of vanilla prices and a wide volatility of the market factors which drive the exposures and the selection of exotic products.
NatWest Markets contributes to correlation between those factors.
consensus pricing services where there is a significant interest either from a positional point of view or to test models for future Expected losses are determined from market implied probabilities business use.
Data sourced from consensus pricing services are of default and internally assessed recovery levels.
The probability used for a combination of control processes including direct price of default is calculated with reference to observable credit testing, evidence of observability and model testing.
In practice spreads and observable recovery levels.
For counterparties this means that RBS submits prices for all material positions for where observable data do not exist, the probability of default is which a service is available.
Data from consensus services are determined from the credit spreads and recovery levels of subject to the same level of quality review as other inputs used similarly rated entities.
Collateral held under a credit support agreement is factored into In order to determine a reliable fair value, where appropriate, the CVA calculation.
In such cases where RBS holds collateral management applies valuation adjustments to the pricing against counterparty exposures, CVA is held to the extent that information gathered from the above sources.
The sources of residual risk remains.
independent data are reviewed for quality and are applied in the IPV processes using a formalised input quality hierarchy.
These Bid-offer, liquidity and other reserves adjustments reflect RBS's assessment of factors that market Fair value positions are adjusted to bid long positions or offer participants would consider in setting a price.
short positions levels, by marking individual cash positions directly to bid or offer or by taking bid-offer reserves calculated on Furthermore, on an ongoing basis, RBS assesses the a portfolio basis for derivatives exposures.
The bid-offer appropriateness of any model used.
To the extent that the price approach is based on current market spreads and standard determined by internal models does not represent the fair value market bucketing of risk.
of the instrument, for instance in highly stressed market conditions, RBS makes adjustments to the model valuation to calibrate to other available pricing sources.
280 Notes on the consolidated accounts 9 Financial instruments - valuation continued Funding valuation adjustment FVA Bid-offer adjustments for each risk factor including delta the FVA represents an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that a degree to which the price of an instrument changes in response market participant would make to incorporate funding costs and to a change in the price of the underlying, vega the degree to benefits that arise in relation to uncollateralised derivative which the price of an instrument changes in response to the exposures.
volatility in the price of the underlying, correlation the degree to which prices of different instruments move together are Funding levels are applied to estimated potential future determined by aggregating similar risk exposures arising on exposures, the modelling of which is consistent with the approach different products.
Additional basis bid-offer reserves are taken used in the calculation of CVA.
The counterparty contingent where these are charged in the market.
nature of the exposures is reflected in the calculation.
Bid-offer spreads vary by maturity and risk type to reflect different Amounts deferred on initial recognition spreads in the market.
For positions where there is no observable On initial recognition of financial assets and liabilities valued quote, the bid-offer spreads are widened in comparison to using valuation techniques incorporating information other than proxies to reflect reduced liquidity or observability.
Bid-offer observable market data, any difference between the transaction methodologies may also incorporate liquidity triggers whereby price and that derived from the valuation technique is deferred.
wider spreads are applied to risks above pre-defined thresholds.
Such amounts are recognised in profit or loss over the life of the transaction: when market data becomes observable: or when the As permitted by IFRS 13, netting is applied on a portfolio basis to transaction matures or is closed out as appropriate.
At 31 reflect the value at which RBS believes it could exit the portfolio, December 2017, net gains of 56 million 2016 - 72 million rather than the sum of exit costs for each of the portfolios were carried forward.
During the year, net gains of 64 million individual trades.
This is applied where the asset and liability 2016 - 27 million were deferred and 80 million positions are managed as a portfolio for risk and reporting 2016 - 48 million were recognised in the income statement.
Own credit Vanilla risk on exotic products is typically reserved as part of the RBS takes into account the effect of its own credit standing when overall portfolio based calculation e. g. delta and vega risk on valuing financial liabilities recorded at fair value in accordance exotic products are included within the delta and vega bid-offer with IFRS.
Own credit spread adjustments are made when calculations.
valuing issued debt held at fair value, including issued structured notes, and derivatives.
An own credit adjustment is applied to Product related risks such as correlation risk, attract specific bidpositions where it is believed that counterparties would consider offer reserves.
Additional reserves are provided for exotic RBS's creditworthiness when pricing trades.
products to ensure overall reserves match market close-out costs.
These market close-out costs inherently incorporate risk For issued debt this adjustment is based on debt issuance decay and cross-effects taking into account how changes in one spreads above average inter-bank rates at a range of tenors.
risk factor may affect other inputs rather than treating all risk Secondary senior debt issuance spreads are used in the factors independently that are unlikely to be adequately reflected calculation of the own credit adjustment applied to senior debt.
in a static hedge based on vanilla instruments.
Where there is limited bid-offer information for a product, the pricing approach The fair value of RBS's derivative financial liabilities is also and risk management strategy are taken into account when adjusted to reflect RBS's own credit risk through debit valuation assessing the reserve.
Expected gains are applied to estimated potential future negative exposures, the modelling of which is Reserves are also held in relation to fair value funding costs that consistent with the approach used in the calculation of CVA.
are not within the scope of FVA, potential losses arising from Expected gains are determined from market implied probabilities receivables where there is a counterparty dispute and certain of default and recovery levels.
FVA is considered the primary uncollateralised derivatives after the pricing impact of a adjustment applied to derivative liabilities.
The extent to which significant novation in 2017 was incorporated into transactions of DVA and FVA overlap is eliminated from DVA.
The own credit adjustment does not alter cash flows, is not used The discount rates applied to derivative cash flows in determining for performance management, is disregarded for regulatory fair value reflect any underlying collateral agreements.
capital reporting processes and will reverse over time provided Collateralised derivatives are generally discounted at the relevant the liability is not repaid at a premium or a discount.
OIS-related rates at an individual trade level.
Reserves are held to the extent that the discount rates applied do not reflect all of the terms of the collateral agreements.
281 Notes on the consolidated accounts 9 Financial instruments - valuation continued The own credit adjustments OCA recorded on held-for-trading HFT and designated as at fair value through profit or loss DFV debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities and derivative liabilities are set out below.
The cumulative adjustments below represent reductions increases to the balance sheet liability amounts.
Debt Securities in issue 3 Subordinated HFT DFV liabilities DFV Derivatives Total Cumulative own credit adjustment 2 m m m m m 2017 47 37 116 32 2016 34 6 196 81 237 Carrying values of underlying liabilities bn bn bn 2017 1.1 3.4 0.9 2016 1.6 4.6 1.0 Notes: 1 The OCA does not alter cash flows and is not used for performance management.
2 Includes wholesale and retail note issuances.
3 The reserve movement between periods will not equate to the reported profit or loss or other comprehensive income related to own credit.
RBS has early adopted the provisions within IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in respect of the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss from 1 January 2017.
The balance sheet reserve is stated by converting underlying currency balances at spot rates for each period, whereas the income statement includes intra-period foreign exchange sell-offs.
4 The cumulative adjustment for debt securities in issue is opposite to that for subordinated liabilities: debt securities in issue were issued relatively recently at wider than current spreads, whilst many of the subordinated liabilities were issued before the financial crisis at significantly tighter spreads.
Key points RBS five year CDS credit spreads tightened to 75 basis The cumulative OCA decrease during the year was mainly points at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 125 due to the tightening of RBS issuance spreads.
senior debt is determined by reference to secondary debt DVA in respect of derivative liabilities has reduced to nil issuance spreads, which tightened by 52 basis points at the following the tightening in spreads in 2017, such that five year level to 10 basis points at 31 December 2017 31 adjustments overlap with FVA and are thus eliminated from December 2016 62 basis points.
RBS subordinated debt spreads at the five year level tightened to 169 basis points at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 281 basis points.
Financial instruments: carried at fair value - valuation hierarchy The following tables show financial instruments carried at fair value on the Groups balance sheet by valuation hierarchy level 1, level 2 and level 3 and related level 3 sensitivities.
282 Notes on the consolidated accounts 9 Financial instruments: carried at fair value - valuation hierarchy continued Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 3 sensitivity 5 2016 bn bn bn bn Favourable m Unfavourable m Assets Loans and advances 61.5 0.6 62.1 50 50 Debt securities 3 53.8 9.2 0.8 63.8 70 20 - of which AFS 35.1 4.0 0.1 39.2 20 10 Equity shares 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.7 40 50 - of which AFS 0.1 0.3 0.4 30 40 Derivatives 244.2 2.7 246.9 200 200 53.9 315.1 4.5 373.5 360 320 Proportion 14.4% 84.4% 1.2% 100% Liabilities Customer accounts 62.0 0.4 62.4 10 20 Debt securities in issue 5.6 0.6 6.2 40 40 Short positions 19.7 2.4 22.1 Derivatives 234.4 2.0 236.4 120 120 Subordinated liabilities 1.0 1.0 19.7 305.4 3.0 328.1 170 180 Proportion 6.0% 93.1% 0.9% 100% Notes: 1 Level 1: valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets, for identical financial instruments.
Examples include G10 government securities, listed equity shares, certain exchange-traded derivatives and certain US agency securities.
Level 2: valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data.
Instruments in this category are valued using: a quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active: or b valuation techniques where all the inputs that have a significant effect on the valuations are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
Level 2 instruments include non-G10 government securities, most government agency securities, investment-grade corporate bonds, certain mortgage products, including CLOs, most bank loans, repos and reverse repos, less liquid listed equities, state and municipal obligations, most notes issued, and certain money market securities and loan commitments and most OTC derivatives.
Level 3: instruments valued using a valuation technique where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation, is not based on observable market data.
Level 3 instruments primarily include cash instruments which trade infrequently, certain syndicated and commercial mortgage loans, certain emerging markets instruments, unlisted equity shares, certain residual interests in securitisations, asset-backed products and less liquid debt securities, certain structured debt securities in issue, and OTC derivatives where valuation depends upon unobservable inputs such as certain credit and exotic derivatives.
No gain or loss is recognised on the initial recognition of a financial instrument valued using a technique incorporating significant unobservable data.
2 Transfers between levels are deemed to have occurred at the beginning of the quarter in which the instruments were transferred.
There were no significant transfers between level 1 and level 2.
3 For an analysis of debt securities by issuer, measurement classification and analysis of asset backed securities and derivatives by type of contract refer to Capital and risk management - Credit risk.
4 The determination of an instruments level cannot be made at a global product level as a single product type can be in more than one level.
For example, a single name corporate credit default swap could be in level 2 or level 3 depending on whether the reference counterpartys obligations are liquid or illiquid.
5 Sensitivity represents the favourable and unfavourable effect on the income statement or the statement of comprehensive income due to reasonably possible changes to valuations using reasonably possible alternative inputs in RBSs valuation techniques or models.
Level 3 sensitivities are calculated on a trade or low level portfolio basis and hence these aggregated figures do not reflect the correlation between some of the sensitivities.
In particular, for some portfolios, the sensitivities may be negatively correlated where a downward movement in one asset would produce an upward movement in another, but due to the additive presentation above, this correlation cannot be shown.
283 Notes on the consolidated accounts 9 Financial instruments: valuation techniques The table below shows a breakdown of valuation techniques and the ranges for those unobservable inputs used in valuation models and techniques that have a material impact on the valuation of level 3 financial instruments.
Level 3 bn Range Financial instruments Assets Liabilities Valuation technique Unobservable inputs Low High Loans and advances 0.2 Price-based Price 0% 100.53% Debt securities 1.2 Price-based Price 0 369.81 GBP Price-based Price 99.94% 101.84% Equity shares 0.2 Price-based Price 0.164 585,066 GBP Valuation Discount factor 9% 13% Valuation Fund NAV 80% 120% Customer accounts 0.2 DCF based on recoveries Correlation 29% 86.05% Interest rate delta 0.38% 2.61% Debt securities in issue 0.3 Price-based Price 56.77 JPY 148.68 EUR Valuation Fund NAV 0.202 977.24 GBP Derivatives 1.7 1.7 Credit 0.2 0.1 DCF based on recoveries Credit spreads 0.1 bps 500 bps Option pricing model Correlation 50% 80% Volatility 38% 80% Upfront points 0% 99% Recovery rate 10% 40% Interest and foreign exchange contracts 1.4 1.5 Option pricing model Correlation 75% 100% Volatility 0% 292% Equity 0.1 0.1 Option pricing model Correlation 57% 95% Forward 146% 189% Volatility 7% 11% Notes: 1 The table above excludes unobservable inputs where the impact on valuation is not significant.
Movements in the underlying input may have a favourable or unfavourable impact on the valuation depending on the particular terms of the contract and the exposure.
For example, an increase in the credit spread of a bond would be favourable for the issuer but unfavourable for the note holder.
Whilst RBS indicates where it considers that there are significant relationships between the inputs, there inter-relationships will be affected by macro economic factors including interest rates, foreign exchange rates or equity index levels.
2 Credit spreads and discount margins: credit spreads and margins express the return required over a benchmark rate or index to compensate for the credit risk associated with a cash instrument.
A higher credit spread would indicate that the underlying instrument has more credit risk associated with it.
Consequently, investors require a higher yield to compensate for the higher risk.
The discount rate comprises credit spread or margin plus the benchmark rate: it is used to value future cash flows.
3 Price and yield: There may be a range of prices used to value an instrument that may be a direct comparison of one instrument or portfolio with another or, movements in a more liquid instrument may be used to indicate the movement in the value of a less liquid instrument.
The comparison may also be indirect in that adjustments are made to the price to reflect differences between the pricing source and the instrument being valued, for example different maturity, credit quality, seniority or expected pay-outs.
Similarly to price, an instruments yield may be compared with other instruments yields either directly or indirectly.
4 Recovery rate: reflects market expectations about the return of principal for a debt instrument or other obligations after a credit event or on liquidation.
Recovery rates tend to move conversely to credit spreads.
5 Valuation: for private equity investments, risk may be measured by beta, estimated by looking at past prices of similar stocks and from valuation statements where valuations are usually derived from earnings measures such as EBITDA or net asset value.
6 Correlation: measures the degree by which two prices or other variables are observed to move together.
If they move in the same direction there is positive correlation: if they move in opposite directions there is negative correlation.
Correlations typically include relationships between: default probabilities of assets in a basket a group of separate assets, exchange rates, interest rates and other financial variables.
7 Volatility: a measure of the tendency of a price to change with time.
8 Interest rate delta: these ranges represent the low high marks on the relevant discounting curve.
9 Upfront points: where CDS contracts are standardised, the inherent spread of the trade may exceed the standard premium paid or received under the contract.
Upfront points will compensate for the difference between the standard premium and the actual premium at the start of the contract.
10 RBS does not have any material liabilities measured at fair value that are issued with an inseparable third party credit enhancement.
284 Notes on the consolidated accounts 9 Financial instruments - valuation continued Modelled products The Level 3 sensitivities on the previous page are calculated at a For modelled products the market convention is to quote these trade or low level portfolio basis.
They are not calculated on an trades through the model inputs or parameters as opposed to a overall portfolio basis and therefore do not reflect the likely cash price equivalent.
A mark-to-market is derived from the use potential uncertainty on the portfolio as a whole.
The figures are of the independent market inputs calculated using RBSs model.
aggregated and do not reflect the correlated nature of some of the sensitivities.
In particular, for some of the portfolios the The decision to classify a modelled instrument as Level 2 or 3 will sensitivities may be negatively correlated where a downwards be dependent upon the product model combination, the currency, movement in one asset would produce an upwards movement in the maturity, the observability and quality of input parameters and another, but due to the additive presentation of the above figures other factors.
All these must be assessed to classify the asset.
this correlation cannot be displayed.
The actual potential downside sensitivity of the total portfolio may be less than the If an input fails the observability or quality tests then the non-correlated sum of the additive figures as shown in the above instrument is considered to be in Level 3 unless the input can be table.
shown to have an insignificant effect on the overall valuation of the product.
Areas of judgment Whilst the business has simplified, the diverse range of products The majority of derivative instruments for example vanilla interest historically traded by RBS results in a wide range of instruments rate swaps, foreign exchange swaps and liquid single name that are classified into Level 3 of the hierarchy.
Whilst the credit derivatives are classified as Level 2 as they are vanilla majority of these instruments naturally fall into a particular level, products valued using observable inputs.
The valuation for some products an element of judgment is required.
The uncertainty on these is considered to be low and both input and majority of RBS financial instruments carried at fair value are output testing may be available.
classified as Level 2: inputs are observable either directly i. e. as a price or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Non-modelled products Non-modelled products are generally quoted on a price basis and Active and inactive markets can therefore be considered for each of the three levels.
This is A key input in the decision making process for the allocation of determined by the market activity, liquidity and valuation assets to a particular level is market activity.
In general, the uncertainty of the instruments which is in turn measured from the degree of valuation uncertainty depends on the degree of liquidity availability of independent data used by the IPV process to of an input.
allocate positions to IPV quality levels.
Where markets are liquid, little judgment is required.
However, The availability and quality of independent pricing information are when the information regarding the liquidity in a particular market considered during the classification process.
An assessment is is not clear, a judgment may need to be made.
This can be more made regarding the quality of the independent information.
For difficult as assessing the liquidity of a market is not always example, where consensus prices are used for non-modelled straightforward.
For an equity traded on an exchange, daily products, a key assessment of the quality of a price is the depth volumes of trading can be seen, but for an over-the-counter of the number of prices used to provide the consensus price.
If OTC derivative assessing the liquidity of the market with no the depth of contributors falls below a set hurdle rate, the central exchange is more difficult.
instrument is considered to be Level 3.
This hurdle rate is that used in the IPV process to determine the IPV quality rating.
A key related matter is where a market moves from liquid to However, where an instrument is generally considered to be illiquid or vice versa.
Where this change is considered to be illiquid, but regular quotes from market participants exist, these temporary, the classification is not changed.
For example, if there instruments may be classified as Level 2 depending on frequency is little market trading in a product on a reporting date but at the of quotes, other available pricing and whether the quotes are previous reporting date and during the intervening period the used as part of the IPV process or not.
market has been considered to be liquid, the instrument will continue to be classified in the same level in the hierarchy.
This is For some instruments with a wide number of available price to provide consistency so that transfers between levels are driven sources, there may be differing quality of available information by genuine changes in market liquidity and do not reflect short and there may be a wide range of prices from different sources.
Material movements between levels are In these situations the highest quality source is used to determine reviewed quarterly.
the classification of the asset.
For example, a tradable quote would be considered a better source than a consensus price.
The breadth and depth of the IPV data allows for a rules based quality assessment to be made of market activity, liquidity and pricing uncertainty, which assists with the process of allocation to an appropriate level.
Where suitable independent pricing information is not readily available, the quality assessment will result in the instrument being assessed as Level 3.
285 Notes on the consolidated accounts 9 Financial instruments: level 3 portfolios and sensitively Other considerations methodologies Whilst certain inputs used to calculate CVA, FVA and own credit adjustments are not based on observable market data, the Reasonably plausible alternative assumptions of unobservable uncertainty of the inputs is not considered to have a significant inputs are determined based on a specified target level of effect on the net valuation of the related derivative portfolios and certainty of 90%.
The assessments recognise different favourable issued debt.
The classification of the derivative portfolios and and unfavourable valuation movements where appropriate.
Each issued debt is not determined by the observability of these inputs unobservable input within a product is considered separately and and any related sensitivity does not form part of the Level 3 sensitivity is reported on an additive basis.
Alternative assumptions are determined with reference to all available evidence including consideration of the following: quality of independent pricing information taking into account consistency between different sources, variation over time, perceived tradability or otherwise of available quotes: consensus service dispersion ranges: volume of trading activity and market bias e. g. one-way inventory : day 1 profit or loss arising on new trades: number and nature of market participants: market conditions: modelling consistency in the market: size and nature of risk: length of holding of position: and market intelligence.
Level 3 The following table shows the movement in level 3 assets and liabilities in the year.
Net gains on other instruments of 9 million 2016 - 4 million losses were recorded in other operating income and interest income as appropriate in continuing operations.
There were no losses in discontinued operations.
2 Fair value through profit or loss comprises held-for-trading predominantly and designated at fair value through profit and loss.
286 Notes on the consolidated accounts 9 Financial instruments: fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value The following table shows the carrying value and fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost on the balance sheet.
Items where fair value approximates Carrying Fair value of hierarchy level carrying value value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2017 bn bn bn bn bn bn Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 98.3 Loans and advances to banks 1.0 10.5 10.5 9.1 1.4 Loans and advances to customers UK PBB - mortgages 136.6 136.6 136.6 - other 25.1 24.7 24.7 Ulster Bank RoI - mortgages 14.5 12.8 12.8 - other 5.0 5.0 5.0 Commercial Banking - commercial real estate 15.9 15.7 15.7 - other 81.1 80.2 0.1 80.1 Private Banking 13.5 13.4 13.4 RBS International 8.7 8.6 8.6 NatWest Markets 9.6 9.7 1.2 8.5 Central items & other 0.1 0.1 0.1 Total loans and advances to customers 310.1 306.8 1.3 305.5 Of which: Performing 303.9 300.8 1.3 299.5 Non-performing 6.2 6.0 6.0 Debt securities 7.8 7.9 4.3 1.5 2.1 Settlement balances 2.5 Financial liabilities Deposits by banks 4.5 25.9 26.0 22.4 3.6 Customer accounts 321.5 39.8 39.9 12.9 27.0 Debt securities in issue 26.0 27.3 22.2 5.1 Settlement balances 2.8 Notes in circulation 1 2.2 Subordinated liabilities 11.8 12.6 12.5 0.1 Note: 1 Included in Accruals and other liabilities.
287 Notes on the consolidated accounts 9 Financial instruments - fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value continued Items where fair value approximates Carrying Fair value of hierarchy level carrying value value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2016 bn bn bn bn bn bn Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 74.3 Loans and advances to banks 0.8 11.4 11.5 3.3 8.2 Loans and advances to customers UK PBB - mortgages 137.5 138.4 138.4 - other 15.2 14.7 14.7 Ulster Bank RoI - mortgages 14.4 12.3 12.3 - other 4.5 4.5 4.5 Commercial Banking - commercial real estate 16.6 16.4 16.4 - other 83.7 84.4 0.1 84.3 Private Banking 12.2 12.2 12.2 RBS International 8.5 8.3 8.3 NatWest Markets 13.1 12.7 0.8 11.9 Central items & other 2.1 2.1 2.1 Total loans and advances to customers 307.8 306.0 0.9 305.1 Of which: Performing 300.4 298.8 0.9 297.9 Non-performing 7.4 7.2 7.2 Debt securities 8.7 8.8 5.0 0.3 3.5 Settlement balances 5.5 Financial liabilities Deposits by banks 4.3 9.4 9.5 6.2 3.3 Customer accounts 308.4 35.1 35.2 10.9 24.3 Debt securities in issue 21.0 21.6 17.1 4.5 Settlement balances 3.6 Notes in circulation 1 2.0 Subordinated liabilities 18.5 18.5 18.4 0.1 Re-presented to reflect segment reorganisation.
Note: 1 Included in Accruals and other liabilities.
288 Notes on the consolidated accounts 9 Financial instruments: fair value of financial instruments not a Contractual cash flows are discounted using a market carried at fair value continued discount rate that incorporates the current spread for the borrower or where this is not observable, the spread for The fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset borrowers of a similar credit standing.
This method is used or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between for portfolios where counterparties have external ratings: market participants at the measurement date.
Quoted market institutional and corporate lending in NatWest Markets.
values are used where available: otherwise, fair values have been estimated based on discounted expected future cash flows b Expected cash flows unadjusted for credit losses are and other valuation techniques.
These techniques involve discounted at the current offer rate for the same or similar uncertainties and require assumptions and judgments covering products.
This approach is adopted for lending portfolios in prepayments, credit risk and discount rates.
Furthermore there is UK PBB, Ulster Bank RoI, Commercial Banking SME loans a wide range of potential valuation techniques.
Changes in these and Private Banking in order to reflect the homogeneous assumptions would significantly affect estimated fair values.
The nature of these portfolios.
fair values reported would not necessarily be realised in an immediate sale or settlement.
For certain portfolios where there are very few or no recent transactions, such as Ulster Bank RoIs portfolio of lifetime The assumptions and methodologies underlying the calculation of tracker mortgages, a bespoke approach is used.
fair values of financial instruments at the balance sheet date are as follows: Debt securities The majority of debt securities are valued using quoted prices in Short-term financial instruments active markets, or using quoted prices for similar assets in active For certain short-term financial instruments: cash and balances at markets.
Fair values of the rest are determined using discounted central banks, items in the course of collection from other banks, cash flow valuation techniques.
settlement balances, items in the course of transmission to other banks, customer demand deposits and notes in circulation, Deposits by banks and customer accounts carrying value is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Fair values of deposits are estimated using discounted cash flow valuation techniques.
Loans and advances to banks and customers In estimating the fair value of loans and advances to banks and Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities customers measured at amortised cost, RBSs loans are Fair values are determined using quoted prices for similar segregated into appropriate portfolios reflecting the liabilities where available or by reference to valuation techniques, characteristics of the constituent loans.
Two principal methods adjusting for own credit spreads where appropriate.
are used to estimate fair value: 10 Financial instruments - maturity analysis Remaining maturity The following table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments, based on contractual date of maturity.
2017 2016 Less than More than Less than More than 12 months 12 months Total 12 months 12 months Total m m m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 98,337 98,337 74,250 74,250 Loans and advances to banks 30,153 98 30,251 30,078 60 30,138 Loans and advances to customers 108,990 240,929 349,919 115,925 236,025 351,950 Debt securities 17,204 61,729 78,933 19,530 52,992 72,522 Equity shares 450 450 703 703 Settlement balances 2,517 2,517 5,526 5,526 Derivatives 32,372 128,471 160,843 61,719 185,262 246,981 Liabilities Deposits by banks 27,303 19,595 46,898 32,043 6,513 38,556 Customer accounts 394,587 3,449 398,036 377,328 3,640 380,968 Debt securities in issue 7,940 22,619 30,559 6,689 20,556 27,245 Settlement balances and short positions 4,938 26,433 31,371 5,010 20,712 25,722 Derivatives 32,212 122,294 154,506 60,878 175,597 236,475 Subordinated liabilities 2,383 10,339 12,722 1,062 18,357 19,419 289 Notes on the consolidated accounts 10 Financial instruments maturity analysis continued For example, if a structured note is automatically prepaid when Assets and liabilities by contractual cash flow maturity an equity index exceeds a certain level, the cash outflow will be The tables below show the contractual undiscounted cash flows included in the less than three months period, whatever the level receivable and payable, up to a period of 20 years, including of the index at the year end.
The settlement date of debt future receipts and payments of interest of financial assets and securities in issue, issued by certain securitisation vehicles liabilities by contractual maturity.
The balances in the following consolidated by RBS, depends on when cash flows are received tables do not agree directly with the consolidated balance sheet, from the securitised assets.
Where these assets are prepayable, as the tables include all cash flows relating to principal and future the timing of the cash outflow relating to securities assumes that coupon payments, presented on an undiscounted basis.
The each asset will be prepaid at the earliest possible date.
As the tables have been prepared on the following basis: repayments of assets and liabilities are linked, the repayment of assets in securitisations is shown on the earliest date that the Financial assets have been reflected in the time band of the asset can be prepaid, as this is the basis used for liabilities.
latest date on which they could be repaid, unless earlier repayment can be demanded by RBS.
Financial liabilities are The principal amounts of financial assets and liabilities that are included at the earliest date on which the counterparty can repayable after 20 years or where the counterparty has no right require repayment, regardless of whether or not such early to repayment of the principal are excluded from the table, as are repayment results in a penalty.
If the repayment of a financial interest payments after 20 years.
instrument is triggered by, or is subject to, specific criteria such Held-for-trading assets of 243.9 billion 2016 - 328.9 billion as market price hurdles being reached, the asset is included in and liabilities of 232.9 billion 2016 - 317.0 billion have been the time band that contains the latest date on which it can be excluded from the following tables.
repaid, regardless of early repayment.
The liability is included in the time band that contains the earliest possible date on which the conditions could be fulfilled, without considering the probability of the conditions being met.
RBS expects most guarantees it provides to expire unused.
2 RBS has given commitments to provide funds to customers under undrawn formal facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend subject to certain conditions being met by the counterparty.
RBS does not expect all facilities to be drawn, and some may lapse before drawdown.
11 Financial assets - impairments The following table shows the movement in the provision for impairment losses on loans and advances.
Individually Collectively assessed assessed Latent 2017 2016 m m m m m At 1 January 1,395 2,660 400 4,455 7,119 Currency translation and other adjustments 39 9 4 26 500 Disposals 5 5 2 Amounts written-off 453 757 1,210 3,695 Recoveries of amounts previously written-off 29 127 156 109 Losses releases to income statement 229 315 14 530 537 Unwind of discount recognised in interest income 24 62 86 113 At 31 December 1 1,132 2,292 390 3,814 4,455 Notes: 1 Includes nil relating to loans and advances to banks 2016 - nil.
2 The table above excludes impairments relating to securities.
2017 2016 2015 Impairment losses releases charged to the income statement m m m Loans and advances to customers 530 537 849 Loans and advances to banks 4 530 537 853 Securities 37 59 126 493 478 727 291 Notes on the consolidated accounts 11 Financial assets - impairments continued The following tables analyse impaired financial assets.
2017 2016 Carrying Carrying Cost Provision value Cost Provision value m m m m m m Loans and receivables Loans and advances to customers 1 7,423 3,424 3,999 8,865 4,055 4,810 Note: 1 Impairment provisions individually assessed on balances of 3,418 million 2016 - 4,186 million.
Carrying value 2017 2016 m m Available-for-sale securities Debt securities 2 33 Equity shares 20 23 Loans and receivables Debt securities 1 2 23 58 Financial and non-financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, obtained during the year by taking possession of collateral or calling on other credit enhancements, were 30 million 2016 - 30 million.
In general, RBS seeks to dispose of property and other assets not readily convertible into cash, obtained by taking possession of collateral, as rapidly as the market for the individual asset permits.
12 Derivatives Companies within RBS transact derivatives as principal either as For cash flow hedging relationships, the initial and ongoing a trading activity or to manage balance sheet foreign exchange, effectiveness is assessed by comparing movements in the fair interest rate and credit risk.
value of the expected highly probable forecast interest cash flows with movements in the fair value of the expected changes in cash RBS enters into fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and hedges flows from the hedging interest rate swap.
Hedge effectiveness is of net investments in foreign operations.
The majority of RBSs measured on a cumulative basis over a time period management interest rate hedges relate to the management of RBSs nonfeels appropriate.
The method of calculating hedge trading interest rate risk.
RBS manages this risk within approved ineffectiveness is the hypothetical derivative method.
Residual risk positions are hedged with derivatives principally interest rate swaps.
Suitable larger financial For fair value hedge relationships of interest rate risk, the hedged instruments are fair value hedged: the remaining exposure, items are typically large corporate fixed-rate loans, government where possible, is hedged by derivatives documented as cash securities, fixed rate finance leases, fixed rate medium-term flow hedges and qualifying for hedge accounting.
The majority of notes or preference shares classified as debt.
At 31 December RBSs fair value hedges involve interest rate swaps hedging the 2017, fixed rate financial assets of 36 billion 2016 - 29 billion interest rate risk in recognised financial assets and financial and fixed rate financial liabilities of 22 billion 2016 - 23 billion liabilities.
Cash flow hedges relate to exposures to the variability were hedged by interest rate swaps in fair value hedge in future interest payments and receipts on forecast transactions relationships.
and on recognised financial assets and financial liabilities.
RBS hedges its net investments in foreign operations with currency The initial and ongoing effectiveness of fair value hedge borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts.
relationships is assessed on a cumulative basis by comparing movements in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the For cash flow hedge relationships of interest rate risk, the hedged hedged risk with changes in the fair value of the hedging interest items are actual and forecast variable interest rate cash flows rate swap over a time period management feels is appropriate.
arising from financial assets and financial liabilities with interest rates linked to LIBOR, EURIBOR or the Bank of England Official Bank Rate.
The financial assets are customer loans and the financial liabilities are customer deposits and LIBOR linked medium-term notes and other issued securities.
At 31 December 2017 variable rate financial assets of 91 billion 2016 - 81 billion and variable rate financial liabilities of 69 billion 2016 - 55 billion were hedged in such cash flow hedge relationships.
292 Notes on the consolidated accounts 12 Derivatives continued 2017 2016 Notional Notional amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities bn m m bn m m Exchange rate contracts Spot, forwards and futures 1,900 19,283 19,172 2,271 35,817 33,986 Currency swaps 666 11,163 13,534 821 22,139 25,053 Options purchased 419 8,765 670 17,486 Options written 440 8,975 683 18,109 Interest rate contracts Interest rate swaps 8,058 99,065 91,025 11,523 139,004 127,151 Options purchased 1,162 21,733 1,518 31,457 Options written 1,032 21,021 1,181 31,298 Futures and forwards 1,764 147 114 2,403 63 36 Credit derivatives 38 531 558 42 682 557 Equity and commodity contracts 3 156 107 21 333 285 160,843 154,506 246,981 236,475 Included in the table above are derivatives held for hedging purposes as follows: 2017 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value hedging Interest rate contracts 904 2,211 1,365 2,612 Cash flow hedging Interest rate contracts 1,989 1,295 3,079 1,419 Exchange rate contacts 63 37 259 Net investment hedging Exchange rate contracts 11 28 86 26 2,967 3,571 4,789 4,057 Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in other operating income in continuing operations comprised: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Fair value hedging Losses gains on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 48 1,146 110 Gains losses on the hedging instruments 78 1,117 39 Fair value hedging ineffectiveness 30 29 71 Cash flow hedging ineffectiveness 9 29 23 39 48 Substantially all forecast receivable hedged cash flows occur within 5 years 2016 - 5 years and substantially all forecast payable cash flows occur within 10 years 2016 10 years : the income statement is impacted over the same periods.
Gross gains of 58 million 2016 - 115 million and gross losses of 12 million 2016 - 107 million were realised on the sale of available-for-sale securities in continuing operations.
There were no gross gains or losses in discontinued operations in 2017 or 2016.
The following table analyses available-for-sale debt securities and the related yield based on weighted averages by remaining maturity and issuer.
294 Notes on the consolidated accounts 14 Equity shares 2017 2016 Listed Unlisted Total Listed Unlisted Total m m m m m m Held-for-trading 7 22 29 106 60 166 Designated as at fair value through profit or loss 6 128 134 3 169 172 Available-for-sale 35 252 287 30 335 365 48 402 450 139 564 703 Available-for-sale Gross unrealised gains 20 47 67 13 48 61 Gross unrealised losses 8 8 8 8 20 39 59 13 40 53 Gross gains of 89 million 2016 - 73 million and gross losses of 1 million 2016 - 10 million were realised on the sale of availablefor-sale equity shares in continuing operations.
There were no gains or losses in discontinued operations.
Dividend income from available-for-sale equity shares was 13 million 2016 - 13 million in continuing operations and nil 2016 - nil in discontinued operations.
Unquoted equity investments whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are carried at cost and classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
Unquoted equity shares generated no material gains or losses in 2017 or 2016.
295 Notes on the consolidated accounts 15 Intangible assets continued The Group's goodwill acquired in business combinations is The impact of sensitivity to the more significant variables in each reviewed annually at 31 December for impairment.
assessment is presented in the tables on the following page.
Impairment testing involves the comparison of the carrying value of each cash-generating unit CGU with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amounts for all CGUs at 31 December 2017 The carrying values of the segments reflect the equity allocations were based on value in use, using management's latest five-year made by management which are consistent with the Groups revenue and cost forecasts.
The long-term growth rates have capital targets.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value been based on expected nominal growth of the CGUs.
Value in use is the present value of expected tax risk discount rates are based on those observed to be applied future cash flows from the CGU.
Fair value is the price that would to businesses regarded as peers of the CGUs.
be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants.
The annual review at 31 December 2017 indicated no impairment to goodwill.
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgmental areas: the preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that are The analysis of goodwill by reportable segment is shown in Note beyond the normal requirements of management reporting: the 37. assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the business: estimation of the fair value of CGUs: and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
The carrying value of goodwill and the amount by which it is exceeded by the recoverable amount are set out below by reportable segment, along with the key assumptions applied in calculating the recoverable amount and sensitivities to changes in those assumptions.
The recoverable amount of UK Personal & Business Banking, Commercial Banking and RBS International were 21.6 billion 2016 - 23.9 billion, 13.7 billion 2016 - 14.1 billion and 3.3 billion 2016 - 2.7 billion respectively.
Consequential impact of 1% Consequential impact of 5% Break Assumptions Recoverable adverse movement in adverse movement even Terminal Pre-tax amount exceeded Discount Terminal Forecast Forecast discount Goodwill growth rate discount rate carrying value rate growth rate Income cost rate 31 December 2017 bn % % bn bn bn bn bn % UK Personal & Business Banking 3.4 2.0 13.1 9.7 1.8 1.2 1.3 0.6 21.6 Commercial Banking 1.9 2.0 12.9 1.3 1.2 0.8 0.7 0.4 13.9 RBS International 0.3 2.0 11.0 0.6 0.4 0.3 0.1 12.8 31 December 2016 UK Personal & Business Banking 3.4 2.5 12.8 14.6 2.3 1.5 1.2 0.6 27.0 Commercial Banking 1.9 2.5 12.9 2.1 1.2 0.8 0.7 0.4 14.7 RBS International 0.3 2.5 10.9 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.1 11.7 Other intangible assets are reviewed for indicators of impairment.
In 2017 29 million 2016 - 159 million of previously capitalised software was impaired primarily as a result of software which is no longer expected to derive future economic benefit.
16 Property, plant and equipment Long Short Computers Operating Investment Freehold leasehold leasehold and other lease properties premises premises premises equipment assets Total 2017 m m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 1,095 2,736 152 1,247 2,467 1,313 9,010 Transfers to disposal groups 405 10 1 21 437 Currency translation and other adjustments 18 36 17 1 36 Reclassifications 109 109 Additions 8 691 5 66 148 199 1,117 Change in fair value of investment properties 14 14 Disposals and write-off of fully depreciated assets 14 80 14 218 208 447 981 At 31 December 1,093 3,015 133 985 2,369 1,064 8,659 Accumulated impairment, depreciation and amortisation At 1 January 1,177 72 799 1,784 588 4,420 Transfers to disposal groups 223 5 1 18 247 Currency translation and other adjustments 35 18 53 Reclassifications 57 57 Write down of property, plant and equipment 122 3 125 Disposals and write-off of fully depreciated assets 34 14 176 159 266 649 Charge for the year 88 5 64 161 143 461 At 31 December 1,152 58 629 1,753 465 4,057 Net book value at 31 December 1,093 1,863 75 356 616 599 4,602 296 Notes on the consolidated accounts 16 Property, plant and equipment continued Long Short Computers Operating Investment Freehold leasehold leasehold and other lease properties premises premises premises equipment assets Total 2016 m m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 915 2,559 177 1,259 2,305 1,556 8,771 Currency translation and other adjustments 140 91 5 73 108 25 442 Reclassifications 46 46 Additions 103 215 5 79 282 228 912 Change in fair value of investment properties 11 11 Disposals and write-off of fully depreciated assets 52 175 35 118 228 496 1,104 At 31 December 1,095 2,736 152 1,247 2,467 1,313 9,010 Accumulated impairment, depreciation and amortisation At 1 January 1,090 87 759 1,677 676 4,289 Currency translation and other adjustments 70 3 53 97 9 232 Reclassifications 9 9 Write down of property, plant and equipment 71 7 78 Disposals and write-off of fully depreciated assets 137 22 86 180 250 675 Charge for the year 74 4 82 183 153 496 At 31 December 1,177 72 799 1,784 588 4,420 Net book value at 31 December 1,095 1,559 80 448 683 725 4,590 Investment property valuations principally employ present value Valuations were carried out by qualified surveyors who are techniques that discount expected cash flows.
Expected cash members of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, or an flows reflect rental income, occupancy and residual market equivalent overseas body: property with a fair value of 201 values: valuations are sensitive to changes in these factors.
The million 2016 - 222 million was valued by independent valuers.
fair value measurement of non-specialised properties in locations where the market for such properties is active and transparent Rental income from investment properties was 84 million 2016 are categorised as level 2 - 2% 2016 - 2% : otherwise - 79 million.
Direct operating expenses of investment properties investment property fair value measurements are categorised as in continuing operations were 9 million 2016 - 16 million.
A 5% change in the most sensitive assumption, residual values, is 40 million.
17 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 2017 2016 m m Prepayments 392 350 Accrued income 378 412 Interests in associates 1 1,410 1,509 Pension schemes in net surplus refer to Note 4 392 276 Tax recoverable 27 71 Other assets 1,127 1,082 3,726 3,700 Note: 1 Interests in associates includes interest in Alawwal Bank 1,052 million 2016 - 1,083 million and Business Growth Fund 316 million 2016 - 256 million.
297 Notes on the consolidated accounts 18 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities of disposal groups a Profit loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 2017 2016 2015 m m m Citizens Interest receivable 1,433 Interest payable 144 Net interest income 1,289 Non-interest income 615 Total income 1,904 Operating expenses 1,181 Profit before impairment losses 723 Impairment losses 103 Operating profit before tax 620 Tax charge 212 Profit after tax 408 Provision for gain on disposal of subsidiary 10 Gain on disposal of subsidiary 1,147 Provision for loss on disposal of interest in associate 130 Gain on disposal of interest in associate 90 Profit from Citizens discontinued operation, net of tax 1,525 Other Profit from other discontinued operations, net of tax 16 Total profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 1,541 RBS sold the final tranche of its interest in Citizens Financial Group, Inc Citizens during October 2015.
Consequently, Citizens was classified as a disposal group at 31 December 2014 and presented as a discontinued operation until October 2015.
From 3 August 2015 until the final tranche was sold in October 2015, Citizens was an associated undertaking.
The gain on disposal in 2015 in relation to Citizens comprised 248 million on the derecognition of assets and liabilities, and 989 million in respect of reserves reclassified in accordance with IFRS.
There was no profit from discontinued operations attributable to non-controlling interests 2016 - nil: 2015 - 334 million.
b Operating cash flows attributable to discontinued operations Included within the Groups cash flows are the following amounts attributable to discontinued operations: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Net cash flows from operating activities 57 Net cash flows from investing activities 6 Net cash flows from financing activities 10 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 58 298 Notes on the consolidated accounts 18 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities of disposal groups continued c Assets and liabilities of disposal groups 2017 2016 m m Assets of disposal groups Loans and advances to banks 10 13 Property, plant and equipment 185 195 13 Liabilities of disposal groups Other liabilities 10 15 10 15 19 Short positions 2017 2016 m m Debt securities - Government 26,381 20,979 - Other issuers 2,145 1,095 Equity shares 1 3 28,527 22,077 Note: 1 All short positions are classified as held-for-trading.
20 Provisions for liabilities and charges Payment Other Residential Litigation protection customer mortgage backed and other Property insurance 1 redress securities 2 regulatory 3 and other 4 5 Total Provisions for liabilities and charges m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 1,253 1,105 6,752 1,918 1,808 12,836 Currency translation and other movements 4 541 31 35 533 Charge to income statement 175 228 714 280 1,003 2,400 Releases to income statement 54 50 156 209 469 Provisions utilised 375 413 3,632 1,370 687 6,477 At 31 December 2017 1,053 870 3,243 641 1,950 7,757 Notes: 1 To reflect the increased volume of complaints following the FCAs introduction of an August 2019 PPI timebar as outlined in FCA announcement CP17 3 and the introduction of new Plevin unfair commission complaint handling rules, RBS increased its provision for PPI by 175m in 2017 2016 - 601 million, 2015 - 600 million, 2014 - 650 million bringing the cumulative charge to 5.1 billion, of which 3.7 billion 74% in redress and 0.4 billion in administrative expenses had been paid by 31 December 2017.
Of the 5.1 billion cumulative charge, 4.6 billion relates to redress and 0.5 billion to administrative expenses.
The principal assumptions underlying RBSs provision in respect of PPI sales are: assessment of the total number of complaints that RBS will receive before 29 August 2019: the proportion of these that will result in redress: and the average cost of such redress.
The number of complaints has been estimated from an analysis of RBSs portfolio of PPI policies sold by vintage and by product.
Estimates of the percentage of policyholders that will lodge complaints the take up rate and of the number of these that will be upheld the uphold rate have been established based on recent experience, guidance in FCA policy statements and the expected rate of responses from proactive customer contact.
The average redress assumption is based on recent experience and FCA calculation rules.
The table below shows the sensitivity of the provision to changes in the principal assumptions all other assumptions remaining the same.
Sensitivity Change in Consequential change in Actual to Future assumption provision Assumptions date expected % m Customer initiated complaints 1 2,386k 429k - 5 - 30 Uphold rate 2 90% 94% - 1 - 6 Average redress 3 1,681 1,476 - 5 - 30 Processing costs per claim 4 160 142 - 20 - 3 Notes: 1 Claims received directly by RBS to date, including those received via CMCs and Plevin commission only.
Excluding those for proactive mailings and where no PPI policy exists.
2 Average uphold rate per customer initiated claims received directly by RBS to end of timebar for both PPI mis-sale and Plevin commission, excluding those for which no PPI policy exists.
3 Average redress for PPI mis-sale and Plevin commission pay-outs.
4 Processing costs per claim on a valid complaints basis, includes direct staff costs and associated overhead - excluding FOS fees.
299 Notes on the consolidated accounts 20 Provisions for liabilities and charges continued Interest that will be payable on successful complaints has been included in the provision as has the estimated cost to RBS of administering the redress process.
There are uncertainties as to the eventual cost of redress which will depend on actual complaint volumes, take up and uphold rates and average redress costs.
Assumptions related to these are inherently uncertain and the ultimate financial impact may be different from the amount provided.
We continue to monitor the position closely and refresh the underlying assumptions.
Background information in relation to PPI claims is given in Note 31.
2 In the US, RBS is subject to civil litigation and various investigations relating to its issuance and underwriting of US mortgage-backed securities RMBS.
An additional charge of US$650 million 492 million was taken in Q4 2017 in connection with these matters, resulting in a year to date charge of US$971 million 714 million.
Detailed descriptions of RBSs legal proceedings and discussion of the associated uncertainties are given in Note 31.
In July 2017, RBS reached a settlement with the Federal Housing Finance Agency FHFA as conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to resolve claims by FHFA in relation to RBS's issuance and underwriting of approximately US$32 billion 25 billion of RMBS in the US.
As part of the settlement, FHFA's outstanding litigation against RBS relating to those securities was withdrawn.
Under the settlement, RBS paid FHFA US$5.5 billion 4.2 billion, of which US$754 million 581 million was reimbursed to RBS under indemnification agreements with third parties.
The cost to RBS net of the indemnity mentioned above of US$4.75 billion 3.65 billion was largely covered by then-existing provisions but an incremental charge of US$196 million 151 million was recorded in Q2 2017 in relation to the settlement.
3 RBS is party to certain legal proceedings and regulatory investigations and continues to co-operate with a number of regulators.
All such matters are periodically reassessed with the assistance of external professional advisers, where appropriate, to determine the likelihood of RBS incurring a liability and to evaluate the extent to which a reliable estimate of any liability can be made.
Details of these investigations and a discussion of the nature of the associated uncertainties are given in Note 31.
4 RBS recognised a 750 million provision in 2016 as a consequence of the announcement that HM Treasury is seeking a revised package of remedies that would conclude its remaining State Aid commitments.
An additional charge of 50 million was taken in Q2 2017 following further revisions to the package, taking the total provision to 800 million.
5 The majority of property provisions relate to vacant leasehold property and comprise the present value of the shortfall between rentals payable and rentals receivable from sub-letting.
In addition to the 800 million provision taken as an estimate of the cost of completing RBS's State Aid divestment commitments as referred to in 4, other provisions include restructuring provisions of 482 million principally in relation to termination benefits.
21 Accruals and other liabilities 2017 2016 m m Notes in circulation 2,186 2,028 Current tax 227 336 Accruals 1,074 1,311 Deferred income 469 483 Other liabilities 2,436 2,833 6,392 6,991 300 Notes on the consolidated accounts 22 Deferred tax 2017 2016 m m Deferred tax asset 1,740 1,803 Deferred tax liability 583 662 Net deferred tax asset 1,157 1,141 Net deferred tax asset comprised: Fair Tax Accelerated value of AFS Cash losses capital Deferred financial financial flow Share carried Pension allowances Provisions gains instruments assets Intangibles hedging schemes forward Other Total m m m m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 857 238 344 132 21 100 4 253 23 1,332 59 1,749 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 1 59 3 4 1 52 Credit charge to income statement 39 149 25 22 1 24 143 13 317 51 226 Charge credit to other comprehensive income 240 9 193 424 Currency translation and other adjustments 5 33 3 1 2 1 3 35 19 10 At 1 January 2017 662 361 322 114 22 73 5 300 10 1,050 28 1,141 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 29 29 Charge credit to income statement 3 126 55 45 52 4 102 1 121 22 33 Charge credit to other comprehensive income 266 19 23 266 4 Currency translation and other adjustments 14 1 3 10 4 24 At 31 December 2017 393 192 266 53 30 92 5 136 9 939 2 1,157 Deferred tax assets in respect of unused tax losses are recognised if the losses can be used to offset probable future taxable profits after taking into account the expected reversal of other temporary differences.
Recognised deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses are analysed further below.
2017 2016 m m UK tax losses carried forward - The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 125 182 - National Westminster Bank Plc 541 605 - Ulster Bank Limited 14 14 Total 680 801 Overseas tax losses carried forward - Ulster Bank Ireland DAC 259 249 939 1,050 301 Notes on the consolidated accounts 22 Deferred tax continued Overseas tax losses UK tax losses Under UK tax rules, tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
Ulster Bank Ireland DAC A deferred tax asset of 259 million In periods from 1 April 2015, the Finance Act 2015 limits the has been recognised in respect of losses of 2,071 million of total offset of losses carried forward by UK banks to 50% of profits.
In tax losses of 8,596 million carried forward at 31 December periods from 1 April 2016, the Finance Act 2016 further limits the 2017.
The losses arose principally as a result of significant offset of losses carried forward by UK banks to 25% of profits.
impairment charges between 2008 and 2013 during challenging The main rate of UK Corporation Tax reduced from 20% to 19% economic conditions in the Republic of Ireland: subsequent from 1 April 2017 and will reduce to 17% from 1 April 2020. movements reflect : exchange differences.
Ulster Bank Ireland Under the Finance No 2 Act 2015, tax losses arising prior to 1 DAC returned to profitability during 2014 and expects the January 2016 are given credit in future periods at the main rate of deferred tax asset to be substantially consumed by future taxable UK corporation tax, excluding the Banking Surcharge rate 8% profits by the end of 2024. introduced by the Act.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2017 take into account the reduced rates in respect of Unrecognised deferred tax tax losses and non-banking temporary differences and where Deferred tax assets of 6,356 million 2016 - 7,940 million: 2015 appropriate, the banking surcharge inclusive rate in respect of - 6,349 million have not been recognised in respect of tax other banking temporary differences.
losses and other temporary differences carried forward of 30,049 million 2016 - 33,376 million: 2015 - 27,483 million in The Royal Bank of Scotland plc The Royal Bank of Scotland plc jurisdictions where doubt exists over the availability of future expects that the balance of recognised deferred tax asset at 31 taxable profits.
Of these losses and other temporary differences, December 2017 of 125 million in respect of tax losses 4,335 million expire within five years and 7,208 million amounting to c. 700 million will be substantially recovered by the thereafter.
The balance of tax losses and other temporary end of 2022.
Since 2012 RBS has reported mixed levels of differences carried forward has no expiry date.
taxable profits and losses because core banking profitability was offset by a series of restructuring plans as the group reshaped to Deferred tax liabilities of 255 million 2016 - 258 million: 2015 - meet commercial and regulatory demands.
In total, 10,247 256 million have not been recognised in respect of retained million of losses have not been recognised in the deferred tax earnings of overseas subsidiaries and held-over gains on the balance at 31 December 2017: such losses will be available to incorporation of overseas branches.
Retained earnings of offset 25% of future taxable profits in excess of those forecast in overseas subsidiaries are expected to be reinvested indefinitely the closing deferred tax asset.
or remitted to the UK free from further taxation.
No taxation is expected to arise in the foreseeable future in respect of held-over National Westminster Bank plc A deferred tax asset of 541 gains.
Dividends received from overseas are largely exempt from million has been recognised in respect of total losses of 3,092 UK tax.
The losses arose principally as a result of significant impairment and conduct charges between 2009 and 2012 during challenging economic conditions in the UK banking sector.
National Westminster Bank plc returned to tax profitability during 2015 and expects the deferred tax asset to be substantially consumed by future taxable profits by the end of 2024.
A reduction in annual profits by 120 million would extend the recovery of the deferred tax asset by one year.
302 Notes on the consolidated accounts 23 Subordinated liabilities 2017 2016 m m Dated loan capital 10,394 15,288 Undated loan capital 2,169 2,775 Preference shares 159 1,356 12,722 19,419 Certain preference shares issued by the company are classified as liabilities: these securities remain subject to the capital maintenance rules of the Companies Act 2006.
The following tables analyse the remaining contractual maturity of subordinated liabilities by the final redemption date and by the next call date.
2018 2019 2020-2022 2023-2027 Thereafter Perpetual Total 2017 - final redemption m m m m m m m Sterling 16 354 504 874 US dollar 441 63 1,704 4,037 517 1,183 7,945 Euro 1,926 145 271 1,037 301 215 3,895 Other 8 8 2,383 208 2,329 5,074 818 1,910 12,722 Currently 2018 2019 2020-2022 2023-2027 Thereafter Perpetual Total 2017 - call date m m m m m m m m Sterling 123 37 466 23 21 204 874 US dollar 15 1,043 63 1,705 4,041 1,078 7,945 Euro 2,084 1,044 271 147 300 49 3,895 Other 8 8 15 3,250 1,152 2,442 4,211 1,399 253 12,722 2017 2018 2019-2021 2022-2026 Thereafter Perpetual Total 2016 - final redemption m m m m m m m Sterling 17 369 576 962 US dollar 98 700 168 7,955 967 2,479 12,367 Euro 913 1,817 243 1,725 263 215 5,176 Other 34 872 8 914 1,062 2,517 780 10,552 1,230 3,278 19,419 Currently 2017 2018 2019-2021 2022-2026 Thereafter Perpetual Total 2016 - call date m m m m m m m m Sterling 15 68 113 407 140 22 197 962 US dollar 1,860 1,817 700 168 6,242 1,186 394 12,367 Euro 162 1,395 1,817 1,108 378 263 53 5,176 Other 8 906 914 2,045 4,186 2,630 1,683 6,760 1,471 644 19,419 303 Notes on the consolidated accounts 23 Subordinated liabilities continued Capital treatment 2017 2016 Redemptions m m m The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 200 million series 1 non cumulative convertible 0.01 preference shares 7.387% partial redemption Ineligible 15 US$ 1,000 million series 1 non cumulative convertible preference shares of US$ 0.01 9.118% partial redemption Ineligible 48 $156 million 7.65% Series F non-cumulative preference shares callable Ineligible 120 $242 million 7.25% Series H non-cumulative preference shares callable Ineligible 186 $751 million 5.75% Series L non-cumulative preference shares callable Ineligible 577 US$ 750 million 6.8% partial redemption Ineligible 360 US$ 1,285 million 5.90% Trust Preferred Tier 1 902 US$ 200 million 6.25% Trust Preferred Tier 1 140 US$ 1,800 million 6.08% Trust Preferred Tier 1 1,263 26 million 7.42% dated notes Tier 2 21 7 million 7.38% dated notes Tier 2 6 US$ 25 million floating rate notes partial redemption Tier 2 6 1,306 2,338 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 750 million 4.35% subordinated notes 2017 Tier 2 645 CHF124 million 9.375% subordinates notes March 2022 Tier 2 101 CAD420 million 10.50% subordinated notes March 2022 Tier 2 255 564 million 10.50% subordinated notes March 2022 Tier 2 489 AU$880 million 13.125% subordinated notes March 2022 Tier 2 548 US$ 2,132 million 9.50% subordinated notes March 2022 Tier 2 1,724 100 million floating rate subordinated notes 2017 Tier 2 90 51 million 2.35% 5 year UK Gilts yield undated subordinated notes callable December 2012 Ineligible 51 54 million 5.13% undated notes Ineligible 55 CAD474 million 5.37% undated notes Ineligible 283 1 billion 4.625% dated notes Ineligible 866 3,903 1,204 NatWest Plc US$ 300 million 8.6250% non-cumulative preference shares callable Tier 1 178 178 RBS NV and subsidiaries 15 million floating rate notes 2022 partial redemption Tier 2 2 250 million 4.70% notes 2019 partial redemption Tier 2 80 US$ 500 million 4.65% notes 2018 partial redemption Tier 2 244 326 NatWest Holdings Limited 20 million 11.75% perpetual tier two capital partial redemption Tier 2 9 38 million 11.375% perpetual tier two capital partial redemption Tier 2 6 15 Note: 1 There were no issuances in 2017 or 2016.
304 Notes on the consolidated accounts 24 Non-controlling interests Other RBS N. V. interests Total m m m At 1 January 2016 662 54 716 Currency translation and other adjustments 108 3 111 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 6 4 10 Equity withdrawn and disposals 43 1 42 At 1 January 2017 733 62 795 Currency translation and other adjustments 22 5 17 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 30 5 35 Dividends paid 20 5 25 Equity withdrawn and disposals 59 59 At 31 December 2017 706 57 763 25 Share capital Number of shares 2017 2016 2017 2016 Allotted, called up and fully paid m m 000s 000s Ordinary shares of 1 11,965 11,823 11,964,565 11,823,163 Non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 1 26,459 72,430 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of US$0.01 65 Non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 2,044 2,044 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 15 Non-cumulative preference shares of 1 54 54 Cumulative preference shares of 1 1 1 900 900 Note: 1 46 million shares with a total nominal value of 0.3 million were redeemed in September and December 2017.
2016 61.4 million shares with a total nominal value of 0.3 million were redeemed.
Number of Movement in allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares m shares - 000s At 1 January 2016 11,625 11,624,564 Shares issued 198 198,599 At 1 January 2017 11,823 11,823,163 Shares issued 142 141,402 At 31 December 2017 11,965 11,964,565 B shares and dividend access share From December 2009, HM Treasury owned 51 billion B shares Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 0.01 each and a dividend access share There is no authorised share capital under the companys DAS with a nominal value of 0.01. constitution.
At 31 December 2017, the directors had authority granted at the 2017 Annual General Meeting to issue up to The B shares carried no voting rights at general meetings of 1,184 million nominal of ordinary shares other than by preordinary shareholders and were convertible at any time at HM emption to existing shareholders.
Treasurys option into ordinary shares at the rate of ten B shares for each ordinary share.
In October 2015, all of the B shares were During 2017, the company allotted and issued the following new converted into ordinary shares of 1 each.
ordinary shares of 1 each: In March 2016, a final payment of 1,193 million was made to Number Subscription Gross HM Treasury to retire the DAS.
The terms for the removal of the Month of shares price per share proceeds DAS were provided by the DAS Retirement Agreement between April 33.4m 239.688p 80 million RBS and HM Treasury.
In line with the terms of the DAS June 29.0m 259.046p 75 million Retirement Agreement, upon the final payment, the DAS lost its September 56.6m 256.027p 145 million preferential rights and become a single B share, which was subsequently cancelled.
In addition, the company issued 22 million ordinary shares of 1 each in connection with employee share plans.
In October 2015, Preference shares the company allotted and issued 5.1 billion new ordinary shares Under IFRS certain of RBS's preference shares are classified as of 1 each to HM Treasury on conversion of 51 billion B shares.
debt and are included in subordinated liabilities on the balance sheet.
The company did not pay an ordinary dividend in 2017 or 2016.
Other securities Certain of RBS's subordinated securities in the legal form of debt are classified as equity under IFRS.
305 Notes on the consolidated accounts 25 Share capital continued In December 2017, the company redeemed in whole the Series These securities entitle the holders to interest which may be F, H, L and 1 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 and deferred at the sole discretion of the company.
Repayment of the Series 1 non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01. securities is at the sole discretion of the company on giving In September 2016, the company redeemed in whole the Series between 30 and 60 days notice.
R and T, non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01.
Non-cumulative preference shares In the context of macro-prudential policy discussions, the Board Non-cumulative preference shares entitle the holders thereof decided to partially neutralise any impact on CET1 capital of subject to the terms of issue to receive periodic non-cumulative coupon and dividend payments from 2013 onwards.
300 million cash dividends at specified fixed rates for each Series payable of new equity was issued during the course of 2017 and the out of distributable profits of the company.
Board has decided a further 300 million of new equity will be issued during the course of 2018 to again partially neutralise the The non-cumulative preference shares are redeemable at the CET1 impact of coupon and dividend payments.
option of the company, in whole or in part from time to time at the rates detailed in the table below plus dividends otherwise payable for the then current dividend period accrued to the date of redemption.
Number of shares Redemption Redemption Class of preference share in issue Interest rate date on or after price per share Debt equity 1 Non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 Series S 26.4 million 6.60% 30 June 2012 US$25 Equity Series U 10,130 floating 29 September 2017 US$100,000 Equity Non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 Series 1 1.25 million 5.50% 31 December 2009 1,000 Equity Series 2 784,989 5.25% 30 June 2010 1,000 Equity 3 month Series 3 9,429 LIBOR 2.33% 29 September 2017 50,000 Equity Non-cumulative preference shares of 1 3 month Series 1 54,442 LIBOR 2.33% 5 October 2012 1,000 Equity Note: 1 Those preference shares where RBS has an obligation to pay dividends are classified as debt: those where distributions are discretionary are classified as equity.
The conversion rights attaching to the convertible preference shares may result in RBS delivering a variable number of equity shares to preference shareholders: these convertible preference shares are treated as debt.
Holders of the non-cumulative preference shares are not entitled In the event that the non-cumulative convertible preference to receive notice of or attend general meetings of the company shares are not redeemed on or before the redemption date, the except if any resolution is proposed for adoption by the holder may convert them into ordinary shares in the company at shareholders of the company to vary or abrogate any of the rights the prevailing market price.
attaching to the non-cumulative preference shares or proposing the winding-up or liquidation of the company.
In any such case, Under existing arrangements, no redemption or purchase of any they are entitled to receive notice of and to attend the general non-cumulative preference shares may be made by the company meeting of shareholders at which such resolution is to be without the prior consent of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
proposed and are entitled to speak and vote on such resolution but not on any other resolution.
In addition, in the event that, On a winding-up or liquidation of the company, the holders of the prior to any general meeting of shareholders, the company has non-cumulative preference shares are entitled to receive, out of failed to pay in full the three most recent quarterly dividend any surplus assets available for distribution to the company's payments due on the non-cumulative dollar preference shares shareholders after payment of arrears of dividends on the other than Series U, the two most recent semi-annual dividend cumulative preference shares up to the date of repayment pari payments due on the non-cumulative convertible dollar passu with the cumulative preference shares and all other shares preference shares and the most recent dividend payments due of the company ranking pari passu with the non-cumulative on the non-cumulative euro preference shares, the nonpreference shares as regards participation in the surplus assets cumulative sterling preference shares, the Series U nonof the company, a liquidation distribution per share equal to the cumulative dollar preference shares and the non-cumulative applicable redemption price detailed in the table above, together convertible sterling preference shares, the holders shall be with an amount equal to dividends for the then current dividend entitled to receive notice of, attend, speak and vote at such period accrued to the date of payment, before any distribution or meeting on all matters together with the holders of the ordinary payment may be made to holders of the ordinary shares as shares.
In these circumstances only, the rights of the holders of regards participation in the surplus assets of the company.
the non-cumulative preference shares so to vote shall continue until the company shall have resumed the payment in full of the Except as described above, the holders of the non-cumulative dividends in arrears.
preference shares have no right to participate in the surplus assets of the company.
306 Notes on the consolidated accounts 26 Other equity Paid-in equity - comprises equity instruments issued by the Capital redemption reserve - under UK companies legislation, company other than those legally constituted as shares.
when shares are redeemed or purchased wholly or partly out of the company's profits, the amount by which the company's issued 2017 2016 share capital is diminished must be transferred to the capital m m redemption reserve.
The capital maintenance provisions of UK Additional Tier 1 notes 1 companies legislation apply to the capital redemption reserve as US$2.0 billion 7.5% notes callable August 2020 2 1,278 1,278 if it were part of the companys paid up share capital.
On 15 June US$1.15 billion 8% notes callable August 2025 2 734 734 2017, the Court of Session approved a reduction of RBSG plc US$2.65 billion 8.625% notes callable August 2,046 2,046 capital so that the amounts which stood to the credit of the capital 2021 3 redemption reserve were transferred to retained earnings.
EMTN notes US$564 million 6.99% capital securities - 275 Own shares held - at 31 December 2017, 16 million ordinary redeemed October 2017 shares of 1 each of the company 2016 - 39 million were held CAD321 million 6.666% notes - 156 by employee share trusts in respect of share awards and options redeemed October 2017 granted to employees.
During the year, the employee share Trust preferred issues: subordinated notes 4 trusts purchased 30 million ordinary shares and delivered 53 93 million 5.6457% 2047 - 93 million ordinary shares in satisfaction of the exercise of options redeemed June 2017 5 and the vesting of share awards under the employee share plans.
4,058 4,582 RBS optimises capital efficiency by maintaining reserves in Notes: subsidiaries, including regulated entities.
Certain preference 1 The coupons on these notes are non-cumulative and payable at the companys discretion.
In the event the Groups CET1 ratio falls below 7% any outstanding shares and subordinated debt are also included within regulatory notes will be converted into ordinary shares at a fixed price.
While taking the legal form of debt these notes are classified as equity under IFRS.
The remittance of reserves to the company or the 2 Issued in August 2015.
In the event of conversion, converted into ordinary shares redemption of shares or subordinated capital by regulated entities at a price of $3.606 nominal per 1 share.
In the event of conversion, converted into ordinary shares may be subject to maintaining the capital resources required by at a price of $2.284 nominal per 1 share.
4 Subordinated notes issued to limited partnerships that have in turn issued partnership preferred securities to RBS Capital Trust D that issued trust preferred securities to investors.
5 Preferred securities in issue - 93 million RBS Capital Trust D, fixed floating rate UK law prescribes that only the reserves of the company are non-cumulative trust preferred securities.
taken into account for the purpose of making distributions and in determining permissible applications of the share premium Merger reserve - the merger reserve comprises the premium on account.
shares issued to acquire NatWest, less goodwill amortisation charged under previous GAAP, and the premium arising on shares issued to acquire Aonach Mor Limited, less amounts realised through subsequent share redemptions by Aonach Mor Limited.
No share premium was recorded in the company financial statements through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act.
307 Notes on the consolidated accounts 27 Leases Operating lease Finance lease contracts and hire purchase agreements assets: Gross Present value Other Future Present future minimum amounts adjustments movements drawdowns value lease rentals Year in which receipt will occur m m m m m m 2017 Within 1 year 3,164 212 125 70 2,757 129 After 1 year but within 5 years 4,686 444 94 4,148 257 After 5 years 2,062 742 27 1,293 21 Total 9,912 1,398 246 70 8,198 407 2016 Within 1 year 3,174 230 54 27 2,863 139 After 1 year but within 5 years 5,002 518 113 68 4,303 296 After 5 years 2,715 951 26 - 1,738 25 Total 10,891 1,699 193 95 8,904 460 2017 2016 Nature of operating lease assets on the balance sheet m m Transportation 283 391 Cars and light commercial vehicles 45 56 Other 271 278 599 725 2017 2016 2015 m m m Amounts recognised as income and expense in continuing operations Finance leases - contingent rental rebate 34 76 81 Operating leases - minimum rentals payable 221 239 239 Finance lease contracts and hire purchase agreements Accumulated allowance for uncollectable minimum receivables 63 54 65 There were no amounts recognised as income and expense in discontinued operations 2016 - nil: 2015 - 75 million in relation to operating leases - minimum rentals payable.
Residual value exposures The table below gives details of the unguaranteed residual values included in the carrying value of finance lease receivables and operating lease assets refer to pages 296 and 297.
2017 2016 Year in which residual value will be recovered Year in which residual value will be recovered After 2 After 2 After 1 year years After 1 year years Within 1 but within but within After 5 Within 1 but within but within After 5 year 2 years 5 years years Total year 2 years 5 years years Total m m m m m m m m m m Operating leases - transportation 29 22 69 17 137 24 60 128 21 233 - cars and light commercial vehicles 5 7 7 19 5 5 12 22 - other 21 24 30 9 84 30 19 32 6 87 Finance lease contracts 88 20 72 27 207 43 27 46 26 142 Hire purchase agreements 38 2 1 41 24 25 2 51 181 75 179 53 488 126 136 220 53 535 Acting as a lessor, RBS provides asset finance to its customers.
It purchases plant, equipment and intellectual property, renting them to customers under lease arrangements that, depending on their terms, qualify as either operating or finance leases.
308 Notes on the consolidated accounts 28 Structured entities A structured entity SE is an entity that has been designed such RBS arranges securitisations to facilitate client transactions and that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding undertakes own asset securitisations to sell or to fund portfolios who controls the entity, for example, when any voting rights relate of financial assets.
RBS also acts as an underwriter and to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are depositor in securitisation transactions in both client and directed by means of contractual arrangements.
SEs are usually proprietary transactions.
established for a specific, limited purpose.
They do not carry out a business or trade and typically have no employees.
They take a RBS involvement in client securitisations takes a number of variety of legal forms - trusts, partnerships and companies - and forms.
It may: sponsor or administer a securitisation programme: fulfil many different functions.
As well as being a key element of provide liquidity facilities or programme-wide credit enhancement: securitisations, SEs are also used in fund management activities and purchase securities issued by the vehicle.
in order to segregate custodial duties from the provision of fund management advice.
Own asset securitisations In own-asset securitisations, the pool of assets held by the SE is Consolidated structured entities either originated by RBS, or in the case of whole loan Securitisations programmes purchased from third parties.
In a securitisation, assets, or interests in a pool of assets, are transferred generally to an SE which then issues liabilities to third The table below analyses the asset categories for those ownparty investors.
The majority of securitisations are supported asset securitisations where the transferred assets continue to be through liquidity facilities or other credit enhancements.
recorded on RBS balance sheet.
2017 2016 Debt securities in issue Debt securities in issue Held by third Held by Held by third Held by Assets parties RBS 1 Total Assets parties RBS 1 Total Asset type m m m m m m m m Mortgages - UK 1,475 1,774 1,774 - Irish 4,073 4,688 4,688 7,054 1,180 6,621 7,801 - US 301 301 301 4,073 4,688 4,688 8,830 1,481 8,395 9,876 Cash deposits 518 965 4,591 9,795 Note: 1 Debt securities retained by RBS may be pledged with central banks.
Commercial paper conduits RBS consolidates a number of asset-backed commercial paper ABCP conduits.
A conduit is an SE that issues commercial paper and uses the proceeds to purchase or fund a pool of assets.
The commercial paper is secured on the assets and is redeemed by further commercial paper issuance, repayment of assets or funding from liquidity facilities.
Commercial paper is typically short-dated, usually up to three months.
At 31 December 2017 assets held by the conduits were nil 2016 - 0.1 billion.
At 31 December 2016 the conduits were funded entirely by RBS.
Covered bond programme Certain loans and advances to customers have been assigned to bankruptcy remote limited liability partnerships to provide security for issues of debt securities by RBS.
RBS retains all of the risks and rewards of these loans.
The partnerships are consolidated, the loans retained on RBSs balance sheet and the related covered bonds included within debt securities in issue.
At 31 December 2017, 8,915 million of mortgages provided security for debt securities in issue of 6,307 million 2016: mortgages - 8,621 million, bonds - 3,935 million.
309 Notes on the consolidated accounts 28 Structured entities continued Unconsolidated structured entities RBSs interests in unconsolidated structured entities are analysed below.
2017 2016 Asset backed Investment Asset backed Investment securitisation funds securitisation funds vehicles and other Total vehicles and other Total m m m m m m Held-for-trading Loans and advances to customers 380 95 475 588 40 628 Debt securities 504 32 536 618 28 646 Equity shares 4 4 94 94 Derivative assets 660 117 777 318 77 395 Derivative liabilities 561 131 692 509 102 611 Total 983 117 1,100 1,015 137 1,152 Other than held-for-trading Loans and advances to customers 1,243 120 1,363 1,339 871 2,210 Debt securities 3,888 141 4,029 4,702 146 4,848 Total 5,131 261 5,392 6,041 1,017 7,058 Liquidity facilities loan commitments 2,117 455 2,572 1,397 757 2,154 Guarantees 229 5 234 55 6 61 Maximum exposure 8,460 838 9,298 8,508 1,921 10,425 Notes: 1 Income from interests in unconsolidated structured entities includes interest receivable, changes in fair value and other income less impairments.
2 A sponsored entity is a structured entity established by RBS where RBS provides liquidity and or credit enhancements or provides ongoing services to the entity.
RBS can act as sponsor for its own or for customers transactions.
3 In 2017, no assets were transferred into sponsored structured entities 2016 - nil which are not consolidated by RBS and for which RBS held no interest at 31 December 2017.
Income arising from sponsored entities where we hold no interest at year end was 11 million 2016 - 18 million.
29 Asset transfers Transfers that do not qualify for derecognition Under standard terms for repurchase transactions in the UK and Securities repurchase agreements and lending transactions US markets, the recipient of collateral has an unrestricted right to RBS enters into securities repurchase agreements and securities sell or repledge it, subject to returning equivalent securities on lending transactions under which it transfers securities in settlement of the transaction.
accordance with normal market practice.
Securities sold under repurchase transactions are not Generally, the agreements require additional collateral to be derecognised if RBS retains substantially all the risks and provided if the value of the securities falls below a predetermined rewards of ownership.
The fair value and carrying value of level.
securities transferred under such repurchase transactions included on the balance sheet, are set out below.
All of these securities could be sold or repledged by the holder.
2017 1 2016 Assets subject to securities repurchase agreements or security lending transactions m m Debt securities 23,781 18,107 Note: 1 Associated liabilities were 23,692 million 2016 - 17,975 million.
Assets pledged as collateral The Group pledges collateral with its counterparties in respect of derivative liabilities and bank and other borrowings.
Assets pledged against liabilities Liabilities secured by assets Loans and Loans and advances advances Deposits to banks to customers Securities Total by banks Derivatives Total m m m m m m m 2017 7,622 45,986 18,470 72,078 20,226 22,956 43,182 2016 7,360 29,654 20,152 57,166 5,514 26,443 31,957 310 Notes on the consolidated accounts 30 Capital resources RBS's regulatory capital resources in accordance with PRA definitions were as follows: PRA transitional basis 2017 2016 m m Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests Shareholders equity 48,330 48,609 Preference shares - equity 2,565 2,565 Other equity instruments 4,058 4,582 41,707 41,462 Regulatory adjustments and deductions Own credit 90 304 Defined benefit pension fund adjustment 287 208 Cash flow hedging reserve 227 1,030 Deferred tax assets 849 906 Prudential valuation adjustments 496 532 Goodwill and other intangible assets 6,543 6,480 Expected losses less impairments 1,286 1,371 Other regulatory adjustments 28 8 9,750 10,839 CET1 capital 31,957 30,623 Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital Eligible AT1 4,041 4,041 Qualifying instruments and related share premium subject to phase out 3,416 5,416 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 140 339 AT1 capital 7,597 9,796 Tier 1 capital 39,554 40,419 Qualifying Tier 2 capital Qualifying instruments and related share premium 6,501 7,066 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 1,876 4,818 Tier 2 capital 8,377 11,884 Total regulatory capital 47,931 52,303 A number of subsidiaries and sub-groups within RBS, principally It is RBS policy to maintain a strong capital base, to expand it as banking entities, are subject to various individual regulatory appropriate and to utilise it efficiently throughout its activities to capital requirements in the UK and overseas.
Furthermore, the optimise the return to shareholders while maintaining a prudent payment of dividends by subsidiaries and the ability of members relationship between the capital base and the underlying risks of of RBS to lend money to other members of RBS may be subject the business.
In carrying out this policy, RBS has regard to the to restrictions such as local regulatory or legal requirements, the supervisory requirements of the PRA.
The PRA uses capital availability of reserves and financial and operating performance.
ratios as a measure of capital adequacy in the UK banking sector, comparing a bank's capital resources with its riskweighted assets the assets and off-balance sheet exposures are weighted to reflect the inherent credit and other risks : by international agreement, the Pillar 1 capital ratios should be not less than 8% with a Common Equity Tier 1 component of not less than 4.5%.
RBS has complied with the PRAs capital requirements throughout the year.
311 Notes on the consolidated accounts 31 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments The amounts shown in the table below are intended only to provide an indication of the volume of business outstanding at 31 December 2017.
Although RBS is exposed to credit risk in the event of a customers failure to meet its obligations, the amounts shown do not, and are not intended to, provide any indication of RBS's expectation of future losses.
More than More than 1 year but 3 years but Less than less than less than Over 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years 2017 2016 m m m m m m Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 1,354 493 481 5,390 7,718 7,867 Other contingent liabilities 609 1,115 180 1,487 3,391 4,179 Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 60,079 22,884 36,511 5,467 124,941 138,645 Contingent liabilities and commitments 62,042 24,492 37,172 12,344 136,050 150,691 Note: 1 Includes liquidity facilities provided to RBS sponsored conduits.
Banking commitments and contingent obligations, which have Standby facilities and credit lines - under a loan commitment, been entered into on behalf of customers and for which there are RBS agrees to make funds available to a customer in the future.
corresponding obligations from customers, are not included in Loan commitments, which are usually for a specified term, may assets and liabilities.
RBS's maximum exposure to credit loss, in be unconditionally cancellable or may persist, provided all the event of its obligation crystallising and all counterclaims, conditions in the loan facility are satisfied or waived.
collateral or security proving valueless, is represented by the Commitments to lend include commercial standby facilities and contractual nominal amount of these instruments included in the credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits and table above.
These commitments and contingent obligations are unutilised overdraft facilities.
subject to RBS's normal credit approval processes.
Other commitments - these include documentary credits, which Guarantees - RBS gives guarantees on behalf of customers.
A are commercial letters of credit providing for payment by RBS to financial guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that a named beneficiary against presentation of specified RBS will meet a customer's specified obligations to third party if documents, forward asset purchases, forward deposits placed the customer fails to do so.
The maximum amount that RBS and undrawn note issuance and revolving underwriting facilities, could be required to pay under a guarantee is its principal and other short-term trade related transactions.
amount as in the table above.
RBS expects most guarantees to expire unused.
Other contingent liabilities - these include standby letters of credit, supporting customer debt issues and contingent liabilities relating to customer trading activities such as those arising from performance and customs bonds, warranties and indemnities.
Contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts The following table shows contractual obligations for future expenditure not provided for in the accounts at the year end.
2017 2016 m m Operating leases Minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable leases 1 - within 1 year 206 246 - after 1 year but within 5 years 651 786 - after 5 years 1,422 1,775 2,279 2,807 Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 18 21 Contracts to purchase goods or services 2 682 598 2,979 3,426 Notes: 1 Predominantly property leases.
2 Of which due within 1 year: 276 million 2016 - 231 million.
312 Notes on the consolidated accounts 31 Memorandum items continued While the outcome of these Matters is inherently uncertain, the Trustee and other fiduciary activities directors believe that, based on the information available to them, In its capacity as trustee or other fiduciary role, the Group may appropriate provisions have been made in respect of the Matters hold or place assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, companies, as at 31 December 2017 refer to Note 20. pension schemes and others.
The assets and their income are not included in the Group's financial statements.
The Group In many proceedings and investigations, it is not possible to earned fee income of 244 million 2016 - 251 million: 2015 - determine whether any loss is probable or to estimate reliably the 321 million from these activities.
amount of any loss, either as a direct consequence of the relevant proceedings and investigations or as a result of adverse The Financial Services Compensation Scheme impacts or restrictions on RBSs reputation, businesses and The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, the UK's operations.
Numerous legal and factual issues may need to be statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and services firms, pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its document production exercises and determination of important obligations.
The FSCS funds compensation for customers by factual matters, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal raising management expenses levies and compensation levies questions relevant to the proceedings in question, before a on the industry.
In relation to protected deposits, each depositliability can reasonably be estimated for any claim.
RBS cannot taking institution contributes towards these levies in proportion to predict if, how, or when such claims will be resolved or what the their share of total protected deposits on 31 December of the eventual settlement, damages, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, year preceding the scheme year which runs from 1 April to 31 may be, particularly for claims that are at an early stage in their March, subject to annual maxima set by the Prudential development or where claimants seek substantial or Regulation Authority.
In addition, the FSCS has the power to indeterminate damages.
raise levies on a firm that has ceased to participate in the scheme and is in the process of ceasing to be authorised for the costs In respect of certain matters described below, we have that it would have been liable to pay had the FSCS made a levy established a provision and in certain of those matters, we have in the financial year it ceased to be a participant in the scheme.
indicated that we have established a provision.
RBS generally does not disclose information about the establishment or The FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury to fund existence of a provision for a particular matter where disclosure compensation costs associated with the failure of Bradford & of the information can be expected to prejudice seriously RBSs Bingley, Heritable Bank, Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander, position in the matter.
Landsbanki Icesave and London Scottish Bank plc.
The industry repaid the remaining balance on the non-Bradford and Bingley There are situations where RBS may pursue an approach that in loans during the period.
The Bradford and Bingley loan is interest some instances leads to a settlement agreement.
This may occur bearing with the reference rate being the higher of 12 month in order to avoid the expense, management distraction or LIBOR plus 111 basis points or the relevant gilt rate for the reputational implications of continuing to contest liability, or in equivalent cost of borrowing from HMT.
The FSCS and HM order to take account of the risks inherent in defending claims or Treasury have agreed that the period of these loans will reflect investigations even for those matters for which RBS believes it the expected timetable for recoveries from the estate of Bradford has credible defences and should prevail on the merits.
The total interest element levied on the industry in the uncertainties inherent in all such matters affect the amount and 2017 18 scheme year was 202 million 337 million in the timing of any potential outflows for both matters with respect to 2016 17 scheme year.
which provisions have been established and other contingent liabilities.
RBS Group has accrued 11.6 million for its share of estimated FSCS levies.
The future outflow of resources in respect of any matter may ultimately prove to be substantially greater than or less than the Litigation, investigations and reviews aggregate provision that RBS has recognised.
Where and as far The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc the company or RBSG as liability cannot be reasonably estimated, no provision has and certain members of the Group are party to legal proceedings been recognised.
and the subject of investigation and other regulatory and governmental action Matters in the United Kingdom UK, the Other than those discussed below, no member of the Group is or United States US, the European Union EU and other has been involved in governmental, legal or regulatory jurisdictions.
proceedings including those which are pending or threatened that are expected to be material, individually or in aggregate.
RBS recognises a provision for a liability in relation to these RBS expects that in future periods additional provisions, Matters when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits settlement amounts, and customer redress payments will be will be required to settle an obligation resulting from past events, necessary, in amounts that are expected to be substantial in and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the some instances.
313 Notes on the consolidated accounts In May 2015, following a trial, the United States District Court for Litigation, investigations and reviews continued For a discussion of certain risks associated with the Groups the Southern District of New York issued a written decision in litigation, investigations and reviews, see the Risk Factor relating favour of FHFA, finding, as relevant to RBS, that the offering to legal, regulatory and governmental actions and investigations documents for four Nomura-issued RMBS for which RBS set out on page 372.
Securities Inc. served as an underwriter contained materially misleading statements about the mortgage loans that backed the Litigation securitisations.
On 28 September UK 2008 rights issue shareholder litigation 2017, the courts judgment against Nomura and RBS Securities Between March and July 2013, claims were issued in the High Inc. was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Court of Justice of England and Wales by sets of current and Second Circuit.
former shareholders, against RBSG and in one of those claims, also against certain former individual officers and directors RBS Securities Inc. estimates that its net exposure under the alleging that untrue and misleading statements and or improper courts judgment is approximately US$318 million, which consists omissions, in breach of the Financial Services and Markets Act of the difference between the amount of the judgment against 2000, were made in connection with the rights issue announced RBS Securities Inc. US$636 million and the estimated market by RBS on 22 April 2008.
These and other similar threatened value of the four RMBS that FHFA would return to RBS claims were consolidated by the Court via a Group Litigation Securities Inc. pursuant to the judgment, plus the costs and Order.
Since then, further High Court claims have been issued attorneys fees that will be due to FHFA if the judgment is upheld.
against RBS under the Group Litigation Order.
Prior to the The estimated net exposure in this matter is covered by an settlement described below, the aggregate value of the shares existing provision.
The judgment is stayed pending defendants subscribed for at 200 pence per share by all of the then claimant request for review by the United States Supreme Court, though shareholders was approximately 4 billion.
post-judgment interest on the judgment amount will accrue while that request and any further review is pending.
RBS Securities In December 2016 RBS concluded full and final settlements with Inc. intends to pursue a contractual claim for indemnification four of the five shareholder groups representing 78 per cent of against Nomura with respect to any losses it suffers as a result of the claims by value.
Further full and final settlements, without any this matter.
admission of liability, were reached and RBS has now concluded the action with over 98 per cent of the claimants.
RBS companies are also defendants in a purported RMBS class action entitled New Jersey Carpenters Health Fund v. Novastar The aggregate settlement figure available to claimants is 900 Mortgage Inc. et al.
which remains pending in the United States million, for which a previously established provision is in place, District Court for the Southern District of New York.
RBS has and is subject to validation of claims.
settled this matter for US$55.3 million, which has been paid into escrow pending court approval of the settlement.
The Court directed that any claimant choosing not to enter the settlement should, by 28 July 2017, issue an application to In addition to the above, the remaining RMBS lawsuits against restore the proceedings.
No such application was made.
RBS companies consist of cases filed by the Federal Home Loan Banks of Boston and Seattle and the Federal Deposit Insurance Residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS litigation in the Corporation that together involve the issuance of less than US$1 US billion of RMBS issued primarily from 2005 to 2007.
RBS companies have been named as defendants in their various roles as issuer, depositor and or underwriter in a number of As at 31 December 2017, the total aggregate of provisions in claims in the US that relate to the securitisation and securities relation to certain of the RMBS litigation matters described underwriting businesses.
These cases include actions by immediately above and RMBS and other securitised products individual purchasers of securities and a purported class action investigations set out under Investigations and reviews on page suit.
The duration and outcome of these investigations and litigation matters remain uncertain, In general, plaintiffs in these actions claim that certain disclosures including in respect of whether settlements for all or any of such made in connection with the relevant offerings of RMBS matters may be reached.
contained materially false or misleading statements and or omissions regarding the underwriting standards pursuant to RBS continues to caution that, in connection with RMBS litigation which the mortgage loans underlying the securities were issued.
matters and RMBS investigations taken as a whole, further substantial provisions and costs may be recognised and, RBS Securities Inc. remains a defendant in a lawsuit relating to depending on the final outcomes, other adverse consequences RMBS issued by Nomura Holding America Inc. Nomura and may occur.
subsidiaries, filed by the US Federal Housing Finance Agency FHFA as conservator for the Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac.
314 Notes on the consolidated accounts The action alleges that the defendants breached English and Litigation, investigations and reviews continued London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR and other rates litigation European competition law as well as asserting common law Certain members of the Group have been named as defendants claims of fraud under US law.
The FDIC previously asserted in a number of class actions and individual claims filed in the US many of the same US law USD LIBOR-related claims against with respect to the setting of LIBOR and certain other benchmark RBS and others in a lawsuit pending in the United States District interest rates.
The complaints are substantially similar and allege Court for the Southern District of New York, though most of the that certain members of the Group and other panel banks claims in that case have been dismissed as a result of a series of individually and collectively violated various federal laws, rulings by that court.
RBSs defence to the High Court claim was including the US commodities and antitrust laws, and state filed on 24 November 2017. statutory and common law, as well as contracts, by manipulating LIBOR and prices of LIBOR-based derivatives in various markets Certain members of the Group have also been named as through various means.
defendants in two class actions relating to JPY LIBOR and Euroyen TIBOR, both pending before the same judge in the Most of the USD LIBOR-related actions in which RBS companies United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
are defendants, including all purported class actions relating to In the first case, relating to Euroyen TIBOR futures contracts, the USD LIBOR, were transferred to a coordinated proceeding in the court dismissed plaintiffs antitrust claims in March 2014, but United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
declined to dismiss their claims under the Commodity Exchange Act for price manipulation, which are proceeding in the discovery In the coordinated proceeding, consolidated class action phase.
In the second case, relating to other derivatives allegedly complaints were filed on behalf of 1 exchange-based purchaser tied to JPY LIBOR and Euroyen TIBOR, the court dismissed the plaintiffs, 2 over-the-counter purchaser plaintiffs, and 3 case on 10 March 2017 on the ground that the plaintiffs lack corporate debt purchaser plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs have commenced an appeal of that decision.
related actions naming RBS as a defendant, including purported Certain members of the Group have also been named as class actions on behalf of lenders and mortgage borrowers, were defendants in class actions relating to i Euribor, ii Swiss Franc also made part of the coordinated proceeding.
LIBOR iii Pound sterling LIBOR, iv the Singapore Interbank Offered Rate and Singapore Swap Offer Rate, and v the In a series of orders issued in 2013 and 2014, the district court Australian Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate, all of which are overseeing the coordinated USD proceeding dismissed class pending before other judges in the United States District Court for plaintiffs' antitrust claims and claims under RICO Racketeer the Southern District of New York.
On 21 February 2017, the Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, but declined to court in the action relating to Euribor dismissed all claims alleged dismiss a certain Commodity Exchange Act claims on behalf of against RBS for lack of personal jurisdiction.
On 18 August 2017, persons who transacted in Eurodollar futures contracts and the court in the action relating to the Singapore Interbank Offered options on futures contracts on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Rate and Singapore Swap Offer Rate dismissed all claims on the theory that defendants' alleged persistent suppression of against RBS for lack of personal jurisdiction: however, the court USD LIBOR caused loss to plaintiffs, and b certain contract allowed the plaintiffs to replead their complaint, and defendants and unjust enrichment claims on behalf of over-the-counter renewed motion to dismiss the amended complaint is pending.
purchaser plaintiffs who transacted directly with a defendant.
On On 25 September 2017, the court in the action relating to Swiss 23 May 2016, the district courts dismissal of plaintiffs antitrust Franc LIBOR dismissed all claims against all defendants on claims was vacated by the United States Court of Appeals for the various grounds: however, the court held that it has personal Second Circuit, which held that plaintiffs have adequately pled jurisdiction over RBS and allowed the plaintiffs to replead their antitrust injury and an antitrust conspiracy, but remanded to the complaint, and defendants renewed motion to dismiss the lower court for further consideration on the question of whether amended complaint is pending.
The other matters described in plaintiffs possess the requisite antitrust standing to proceed with this paragraph relating to Pound Sterling LIBOR and the antitrust claims.
Australian Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate are subject to motions to dismiss that are currently pending.
In a decision issued in December 2016, the district court held that it lacks personal jurisdiction over RBS with respect to certain Details of UK litigation claims in relation to the sale of interest claims asserted in the coordinated proceeding.
Following that rate hedging products IRHPs involving LIBOR-related decision, RBS has been dismissed from each of the USD LIBORallegations are set out under Interest rate hedging products related class actions in the coordinated proceeding, subject to litigation on page 317.
Details of LIBOR investigations involving appeal, although certain non-class cases on behalf of particular RBS are set out under Investigations and reviews on page 320. plaintiffs remain pending.
On 10 July 2017, the US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC, on behalf of 39 failed US banks, served a claim in the High Court of Justice of England and Wales against RBS, other LIBOR panel banks and the British Bankers Association, alleging collusion with respect to the setting of USD LIBOR.
315 Notes on the consolidated accounts On 12 July 2017, Alpari US LLC Alpari filed a class action Litigation, investigations and reviews continued ISDAFIX antitrust litigation complaint against RBS companies in the United States District Beginning in September 2014, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Court for the Southern District of New York.
The complaint RBS plc and a number of other financial institutions were alleges that RBS breached contracts with Alpari and other named as defendants in several purported class action counterparties by rejecting FX orders placed over electronic complaints subsequently consolidated into one complaint in the trading platforms through the application of a function referred to United States District Court for the Southern District of New York as Last Look, and that the rejected orders were later filled at alleging manipulation of USD ISDAFIX rates.
In 2015, RBS plc prices less favourable to putative class members.
The complaint reached an agreement to settle this matter for US$50 million, and contains claims for breach of contract and unjust enrichment.
that settlement received preliminary approval from the Court in RBS has filed a motion to compel arbitration of Alparis claims or, May 2016.
The settlement amount has been paid into escrow in the alternative, to dismiss those claims for improper venue.
pending the final court approval of the settlement.
In September 2015, certain members of the Group, as well as a FX antitrust litigation number of other financial institutions, were named as defendants In 2015, Group companies settled a consolidated antitrust class in two class actions filed in Ontario and Quebec on behalf of action the consolidated action, pending in the United States persons in Canada who entered into foreign exchange District Court for the Southern District of New York, asserting transactions or who invested in funds that entered into foreign claims on behalf of persons who entered into a over-the-counter exchange transactions, alleging that the defendants violated the foreign exchange FX spot transactions, forwards, swaps, Canadian Competition Act by conspiring to manipulate the prices futures, options or other FX transactions the trading or settlement of currency trades.
RBS settled the matters for approximately of which is related in any way to FX rates, or b exchange-traded CAD 13 million.
The settlement amount has been paid and the FX instruments.
Following the Courts preliminary approval of the settlement has received final court approval.
settlement in December 2015, RBS paid the total settlement amount US$255 million into escrow pending final court approval Certain other foreign exchange transaction related claims have of the settlement.
been or may be threatened against RBS in other jurisdictions.
RBS cannot predict whether any of these claims will be pursued, On 24 March 2017, the court dismissed a second FX-related but expects that several may.
antitrust class action, holding that the alleged class of consumers and end-user businesses lacked standing to pursue antitrust US Treasury securities antitrust litigation claims.
The plaintiffs in that case have since filed an amended Beginning in July 2015, numerous class action antitrust complaint.
The defendants made a renewed motion to dismiss complaints were filed in US federal courts against a number of the complaint but the court denied that motion on 3 August 2017. primary dealers of US Treasury securities, including RBS As a result, the discovery phase has commenced.
RBS and the Securities Inc..
The consolidated amended complaint for these other defendants are seeking reconsideration of the courts matters, pending in the United States District Court for the decision regarding standing or, in the alternative, permission to Southern District of New York, alleges that RBS Securities Inc. take an immediate appeal to the United States Court of Appeals and the other defendants rigged the US Treasury securities for the Second Circuit.
auction bidding process to deflate prices at which they bought such securities and colluded to increase the prices at which they A third FX-related class action, asserting Employee Retirement sold such securities to plaintiffs.
Income Security Act claims on behalf of employee benefit plans that engaged in FX transactions, including claims based on The complaint asserts claims under the US antitrust laws on alleged non-collusive FX-related conduct, was dismissed in behalf of persons who transacted in US Treasury securities or September 2016 on the ground that the plaintiffs failed to plead derivatives based on such instruments, including futures and that the defendants had ERISA-based fiduciary duties to the options.
The defendants anticipate filing a motion to dismiss the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs appeal of this dismissal remains pending.
operative complaint in this matter.
Beginning in September 2016, several additional class action Swaps antitrust litigation complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the Beginning in November 2015, RBS plc and other members of the Southern District of New York asserting claims on behalf of Group, as well as a number of other interest rate swap dealers, indirect purchasers of FX instruments.
were named as defendants in a number of class action antitrust complaints filed in the United States District Court for the The plaintiffs define indirect purchasers as persons who were Southern District of New York and the United States District indirectly affected by FX instruments that others entered into Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
The complaints, filed on directly with defendant banks or on exchanges.
The consolidated behalf of persons who entered into interest rate swaps with the amended complaint for these matters alleges that certain RBS defendants, allege that the defendants violated the US antitrust companies and other defendant banks caused damages to the laws by restraining competition in the market for interest rate indirect purchasers by conspiring to restrain trade in the FX spot swaps through various means and thereby caused inflated bidmarket.
The plaintiffs have asserted claims under federal and ask spreads for interest rate swaps, to the alleged detriment of state antitrust laws.
RBS and the other defendants have filed a the plaintiff class.
motion to dismiss, which remains pending.
316 Notes on the consolidated accounts Thornburg adversary proceeding Litigation, investigations and reviews continued In addition, two complaints containing similar allegations of RBS Securities Inc. and certain other RBS companies, as well as collusion were filed in United States District Court for the several other financial institutions, are defendants in an Southern District of New York on behalf of TeraExchange and adversary proceeding filed in the US bankruptcy court in Javelin, who allege that they would have successfully established Maryland by the trustee for TMST, Inc. formerly known as exchange-like trading of interest rate swaps if the defendant Thornburg Mortgage, Inc..
The trustee seeks recovery of dealers had not unlawfully conspired to prevent that from transfers made under certain restructuring agreements as, happening through boycotts and other means, in violation of the among other things, avoidable fraudulent and preferential U. S. antitrust laws.
In June 2016, all of these matters were conveyances and transfers.
In September 2014, the Court largely transferred to the United States District Court for the Southern denied the defendants' motion to dismiss this matter and, as a District of New York for coordinated or consolidated pretrial result, discovery is ongoing.
Interest rate hedging products litigation In July 2017, the Court overseeing the above matters dismissed RBS is dealing with a large number of active litigation claims in all claims against RBS companies relating to the 2008 - 2012 relation to the sale of interest rate hedging products IRHPs.
In time period, but declined to dismiss certain antitrust and unjust general claimants allege that the relevant interest rate hedging enrichment claims covering the 2013 - 2016 time period.
products were mis-sold to them, with some also alleging RBS Discovery is ongoing.
made misrepresentations in relation to LIBOR.
Claims have been brought by customers who were considered under the UK On 8 June 2017, TeraExchange filed another complaint against Financial Conduct Authority FCA redress programme, as well RBS and others in the United States District Court for the as customers who were outside of the scope of that programme, Southern District of New York, this time relating to credit default which was closed to new entrants on 31 March 2015.
RBS swaps instead of interest rate swaps.
TeraExchange alleges it encouraged those customers that were eligible to seek redress would have established exchange-like trading of credit default under the FCA redress programme to participate in that swap if the defendant dealers had not engaged in an unlawful programme.
RBS remains exposed to potential claims from antitrust conspiracy.
RBS has filed a motion to dismiss the customers who were either ineligible to be considered for redress complaint in this matter.
or who are dissatisfied with their redress offers.
Madoff Property Alliance Group PAG v The Royal Bank of Scotland plc In December 2010, Irving Picard, as trustee for the bankruptcy was the leading case before the English High Court involving estates of Bernard L. Madoff and Bernard L. Madoff Investment both IRHP mis-selling and LIBOR misconduct allegations.
filed a clawback claim against The Royal Bank of amount claimed was 34.8 million and the trial ended in October Scotland N. V. RBS N. V. in the New York bankruptcy court.
In December 2016 the Court dismissed all of PAGs claims.
PAG appealed that decision, and the appeal hearing closed on 8 In the operative complaint, filed in August 2012, the trustee seeks February 2018.
The decision subject to to recover US$75.8 million in redemptions that RBS N. V. the appeal by PAG may have significance to other similar allegedly received from certain Madoff feeder funds and LIBOR-related cases currently pending in the English courts, US$162.1 million that RBS N. V. allegedly received from its swap some of which involve substantial amounts.
counterparties at a time when RBS N. V. allegedly knew or should have known of Madoffs possible fraud.
The trustee The case of London Bridge Holdings Ltd and others v RBS plc alleges that those transfers were preferences or fraudulent remains stayed pending the outcome of the PAG appeal.
The conveyances under the US bankruptcy code and New York law sum claimed in that case is 446.7 million.
and he asserts the purported right to claw them back for the benefit of Madoffs estate.
In addition to claims alleging that IRHPs were mis-sold, RBS has received a number of claims involving allegations that it breached RBS N. V. made a motion to dismiss in this case on the ground a legal duty of care in its conduct of the FCA redress programme.
that many of the transfers at issue were extraterritorial to the These claims have been brought by customers who are United States and therefore not subject to the fraudulent dissatisfied with redress offers made to them through the FCA conveyance statute upon which the trustees claim is based, but redress programme.
The claims followed a preliminary decision the bankruptcy court denied that motion in November 2016.
RBS against another UK bank.
RBS has since been successful in N. V. sought leave to appeal, but this was denied on 3 October opposing an application by a customer to amend its pleadings to 2017.
A further claim by the trustee against RBS N. V. for include similar claims against RBS, on the basis that the bank clawback of an additional US$21.8 million, was filed in October does not owe a legal duty of care to customers in carrying out the 2011.
With respect to that claim, the bankruptcy court granted FCA review.
An appeal of that decision was dismissed in July RBS N. V. s motion to dismiss on extraterritorial grounds, and the 2017 and permission to further appeal was refused by the UK trustee has commenced an appeal of that decision.
317 Notes on the consolidated accounts Anti-Terrorism Act litigation against RBS N. V. Litigation, investigations and reviews continued Tax dispute RBS N. V. and certain other financial institutions HSBC, HMRC issued a tax assessment in 2012 against RBS for Barclays, Standard Chartered, Credit Suisse, Bank Saderat, and approximately 86 million regarding a value-added-tax VAT Commerzbank are defendants in an action first commenced in matter in relation to the trading of European Union Allowances the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New EUAs by an RBS joint venture subsidiary in 2009.
RBS has York in November 2014 by a number of US nationals or their commenced legal proceedings before the First-tier Tribunal estates, survivors, or heirs, most of whom are or were US Tax, a specialist tax tribunal, challenging the assessment the military personnel, who were killed or injured in more than 90 Tax Dispute.
In the event that the assessment is upheld, attacks in Iraq between 2004 and 2011. interest and costs would be payable, and a penalty of up to 100 The attacks were allegedly perpetrated by Hezbollah and certain per cent of the VAT held to have been legitimately denied by Iraqi terror cells allegedly funded by the Islamic Republic of Iran.
HMRC could also be levied.
Separately, RBS is a named According to the plaintiffs allegations, RBS N. V. and the other defendant in proceedings before the High Court brought in 2015 defendants are liable for damages arising from the attacks by ten companies all in liquidation the Liquidated Companies because they allegedly conspired with Iran and certain Iranian and their respective liquidators together, the Claimants.
The banks to assist Iran in transferring money to Hezbollah and the Liquidated Companies previously traded in EUAs in 2009 and are Iraqi terror cells, in violation of the US Anti-Terrorism Act, by alleged to be defaulting traders within or otherwise connected to agreeing to engage in stripping of transactions initiated by the the EUA supply chains forming the subject of the Tax Dispute.
Iranian banks so that the Iranian nexus to the transactions would The Claimants are claiming approximately 80 million plus not be detected.
Since commencing this matter, the plaintiffs interest and costs by alleging that RBS dishonestly assisted the have amended the complaint twice.
The second amended directors of the Liquidated Companies in the breach of their complaint is subject to a motion to dismiss that defendants filed in statutory duties and or knowingly participated in the carrying on September 2016. of the business of the Liquidated Companies with intent to defraud creditors.
The trial in that matter is currently scheduled to In November 2016, additional plaintiffs commenced a second start in June 2018. action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois against the same defendants including RBS N. V., as Weiss v. National Westminster Bank Plc NatWest well as Deutsche Bank.
The allegations were substantially similar NatWest is defending a lawsuit filed by a number of US nationals to the allegations contained in the complaint described above.
or their estates, survivors, or heirs who were victims of terrorist The plaintiffs were a number of US military personnel or their attacks in Israel.
The plaintiffs allege that NatWest is liable for estates, survivors, or heirs who were killed or injured in 21 damages arising from those attacks pursuant to the US Antiattacks in Iraq between 2006 and 2011.
In April 2017, this case Terrorism Act because NatWest previously maintained bank was transferred to the United States District Court for the Eastern accounts and transferred funds for the Palestine Relief & District of New York.
On 3 October 2017, the plaintiffs in this Development Fund, an organisation which plaintiffs allege second case, instead of responding to defendants motion to solicited funds for Hamas, the alleged perpetrator of the attacks.
dismiss, voluntarily dismissed their claims without prejudice to refiling at a later date.
In March 2013, the trial court the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York granted summary judgment in On 9 November 2017, a third action was commenced by an favour of NatWest on the issue of scienter, but in September additional group of plaintiffs in the United States District Court for 2014, that summary judgment ruling was vacated by the United the Southern District of New York, against the same defendants States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
The appeals court as the November 2016 action including RBS N. V., as well as returned the case to the trial court for consideration of NatWest's RBS plc.
The allegations are substantially similar to the other asserted grounds for summary judgment and, if necessary, allegations contained in the complaints described above and for trial.
In March 2016, the trial court denied a motion by concern 55 attacks in Iraq between 2003 and 2011.
The NatWest to dismiss the case in which NatWest had argued that defendants anticipate filing a motion to dismiss the claims in this the court lacked personal jurisdiction over NatWest.
since asserted other grounds for summary judgment that the trial court has not previously ruled upon.
On 5 October 2017, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York dismissed claims against NatWest with respect to two terrorist attacks, but denied NatWests summary judgment motion with respect to claims arising from 16 other attacks.
No trial date has been set.
318 Notes on the consolidated accounts The duration, timing for resolution and outcome of these Litigation, investigations and reviews continued Investigations and reviews investigations and RMBS litigation matters remain uncertain, RBSs businesses and financial condition can be affected by the including in respect of whether settlements for all or any of such actions of various governmental and regulatory authorities in the matters may be reached.
Further substantial provisions and costs UK, the US, the EU and elsewhere.
RBS has engaged, and will may be recognised and, depending on the final outcome, other continue to engage, in discussions with relevant governmental adverse consequences may occur as described above and in the and regulatory authorities, including in the UK, the US, the EU Risk Factor relating to legal, regulatory and governmental actions and elsewhere, on an ongoing and regular basis, and in response and investigations set out on page 372. to informal and formal inquiries or investigations, regarding operational, systems and control evaluations and issues including In December 2017, RBS Financial Products Inc. agreed to pay those related to compliance with applicable laws and regulations, US$125 million to settle the RMBS investigation of the California including consumer protection, business conduct, Attorney General.
Payment has been made from a previously competition anti-trust, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and established provision.
Ongoing investigations into the same or sanctions regimes.
similar issues by certain other state attorneys general are at various stages.
RBS is in advanced discussions with the New The NatWest Markets segment in particular has been providing York Attorney General to resolve its investigation, although there is no certainty that any settlement will be reached.
information regarding a variety of matters, including, for example, the setting of benchmark rates and related derivatives trading, On 26 October 2017, the United States Attorney for the District of conduct in the foreign exchange market, and various issues Connecticut USAO announced that it had entered into a Nonrelating to the issuance, underwriting, and sales and trading of Prosecution Agreement NPA with RBS Securities Inc. in fixed-income securities, including structured products and connection with alleged misrepresentations to counterparties government securities.
relating to secondary trading in various forms of asset-backed securities.
The NPA, which recognises RBS Securities Inc. s Any matters discussed or identified during such discussions and timely self-reporting and cooperation, required RBS Securities inquiries may result in, among other things, further inquiry or Inc. to pay a penalty of US$35 million, reimburse customers at investigation, other action being taken by governmental and least US$9.1 million, and continue to cooperate with the regulatory authorities, increased costs being incurred by RBS, investigation.
remediation of systems and controls, public or private censure, restriction of RBSs business activities and or fines.
Any of the These amounts were covered by provisions existing at the time of events or circumstances mentioned in this paragraph or below settlement.
As part of the NPA, the USAO has agreed not to file could have a material adverse effect on RBS, its business, criminal charges against RBS Securities Inc. relating to certain authorisations and licences, reputation, results of operations or conduct and information described in the NPA if RBS Securities the price of securities issued by it.
Inc. complies with the NPA during its one-year term.
In March and December 2015, two former RBS Securities Inc. traders RBS is co-operating fully with the investigations and reviews entered guilty pleas in the United States District Court for the described below.
District of Connecticut, each to one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud while employed at RBS Securities Inc. RMBS and other securitised products investigations In the US, RBS is involved in reviews, investigations and US mortgages - loan repurchase matters proceedings both formal and informal by federal and state RBSs NatWest Markets business in North America was a governmental law enforcement and other agencies and selfpurchaser of non-agency residential mortgages in the secondary regulatory organisations, including the US Department of Justice market, and an issuer and underwriter of non-agency RMBS.
DOJ and several state attorneys general, including those mentioned below, relating to, among other things, issuance, In issuing RMBS, NatWest Markets in some circumstances made underwriting and trading in RMBS and other mortgage-backed representations and warranties regarding the characteristics of securities and collateralised debt obligations CDOs.
As a result, NatWest Markets may be, or ongoing matters include, among others, active investigations by may have been, contractually required to repurchase such loans the DOJ, relating primarily to due diligence on and disclosure or indemnify certain parties against losses for certain breaches of related to loans purchased for, or otherwise included in, such representations and warranties.
Depending on the extent to securitisations and related disclosures.
which such loan repurchase related claims are pursued against and not rebutted by NatWest Markets on timeliness or other As at 31 December 2017, the total aggregate of provisions in grounds, the aggregate potential impact on RBS, if any, may be relation to certain of the RMBS investigations and RMBS litigation material.
matters set out under Litigation on page 314 was 3.2 billion US$4.4 billion.
RBS continues to cooperate with the DOJ and with certain state attorneys general in their investigations of RMBS matters.
319 Notes on the consolidated accounts Litigation, investigations and reviews continued other designated market activities the FX Order.
In the FX LIBOR and other trading rates Order, which is publicly available and will remain in effect until From February 2013 to December 2016, RBS entered into terminated by the Federal Reserve, RBS plc and RBS Securities settlements with various governmental authorities in relation to Inc. agreed to take certain remedial actions with respect to FX investigations into submissions, communications and procedures activities and certain other designated market activities, including around the setting of LIBOR and other interest rates and interest the creation of an enhanced written internal controls and rate trading, which, among other things, required RBS to pay compliance program, an improved compliance risk management significant penalties.
As part of these resolutions, RBS made program, and an enhanced internal audit program.
RBS plc and certain undertakings regarding benchmark interest rates, RBS Securities Inc. are obligated to implement and comply with including the undertakings contained in its February 2013 these programs as approved by the Federal Reserve, and are resolution with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission also required to conduct, on an annual basis, a review of CFTC.
applicable compliance policies and procedures and a riskfocused sampling of key controls.
RBS continues to co-operate with investigations and requests for information by various other governmental and regulatory RBS is co-operating with investigations and responding to authorities, including in the UK, US and APAC.
inquiries from other governmental and regulatory including competition authorities on similar issues relating to failings in its On 3 February 2017, it was announced that RBS and the CFTC FX business within its NatWest Markets segment.
The timing and entered into a civil settlement resolving the CFTCs investigation amount of financial penalties with respect to any further of ISDAFIX and related trading activities.
As part of the settlements and related litigation risks and collateral settlement, RBS has paid a penalty of US$85 million and agreed consequences remain uncertain and may well be material.
FCA review of RBSs treatment of SMEs Foreign exchange related investigations In November 2013, a report by Lawrence Tomlinson, In November 2014, RBS plc reached a settlement with the FCA entrepreneur in residence at the UK Governments Department and the CFTC in relation to investigations into failings in RBSGs for Business Innovation and Skills, was published Tomlinson FX businesses within its NatWest Markets segment.
The Tomlinson Report was critical of RBSs treatment of agreed to pay penalties of 217 million to the FCA and US$290 SMEs.
million to the CFTC to resolve the investigations.
The fines were paid in November 2014.
The Tomlinson Report was passed to the PRA and FCA.
Shortly thereafter, the FCA appointed an independent Skilled Person In May 2015, RBS plc announced that it had reached settlements under section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act to with the DOJ and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve review the allegations in the Tomlinson Report.
The Skilled System Federal Reserve in relation to investigations into its FX Persons review was focused on RBSs UK small and medium business within its NatWest Markets segment.
RBS plc paid a sized business customers with credit exposures of up to 20 penalty of US$274 million to the Federal Reserve and agreed to million whose relationship was managed within RBSs Global pay a penalty of US$395 million to the DOJ to resolve the Restructuring Group or within similar units within RBSs investigations.
Corporate Banking Division that were focused on customers in financial difficulties.
In the period 2008 to 2013 RBS was one of As part of its plea agreement with the DOJ, RBS plc pled guilty in the leading providers of credit to the UK SME sector.
the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut to a one-count information charging an antitrust conspiracy.
RBS plc Separately, in November 2013, RBS instructed the law firm admitted that it knowingly, through one of its euro US dollar Clifford Chance to conduct an independent review of the principal currency traders, joined and participated in a conspiracy to allegation made in the Tomlinson Report: RBS was alleged to be eliminate competition in the purchase and sale of the euro US culpable of systematic and institutional behaviour in artificially dollar currency pair exchanged in the FX spot market.
distressing otherwise viable businesses and, through that, putting businesses into insolvency.
Clifford Chance published its report The charged conspiracy occurred between as early as December on 17 April 2014 and, while it made certain recommendations to 2007 to at least April 2010.
On 5 January 2017, the United States enhance customer experience and transparency of pricing, it District Court for the District of Connecticut imposed a sentence concluded that there was no evidence to support the principal on RBS plc consisting of the US$395 million criminal fine allegation.
previously agreed with the DOJ and a term of probation, which among other things, prohibits RBS plc from committing another crime in violation of US law or engaging in the FX trading practices that form the basis for the charged crime and requires RBS plc to implement a compliance program designed to prevent and detect the unlawful conduct at issue and to strengthen its compliance and internal controls as required by other regulators including the FCA and the CFTC.
A violation of the terms of probation could lead to the imposition of additional penalties.
Subsequent to the sentencing, RBS plc paid the criminal fine, which had been covered by an existing provision.
RBS plc and RBS Securities Inc. have also entered into a cease and desist order with the Federal Reserve relating to FX and 320 Notes on the consolidated accounts Litigation, investigations and reviews continued The court decided in favour of KPMG, finding that 1 KPMG is A separate independent review of the principal allegation, led by not a body amenable to judicial review in respect of its role as Mason Hayes & Curran, Solicitors, was conducted in the Skilled Person in this matter: and 2 that there was no unfairness Republic of Ireland.
The report was published in December 2014 by the other bank in the procedure adopted.
and found no evidence to support the principal allegation.
The claimant has been granted permission to appeal that The Skilled Person review focused on the allegations made in the decision, and the appeal hearing is expected to take place on 23 Tomlinson Report and certain observations made by Sir Andrew and 24 May 2018.
Large in his 2013 Independent Lending Review, and was broader in scope than the reviews undertaken by Clifford Chance and The majority of the claims that name RBS as an interested party Mason, Hayes & Curran which are referred to above.
The Skilled have been discontinued but there are still several cases which Person delivered the draft findings from its review to the FCA in remain stayed pending the outcome of the appeal in the other March 2016.
RBS was then given the opportunity to consider and banks case.
If the appeal court finds that a section 166- respond to those draft findings before the Skilled Person appointed Skilled Person is susceptible to judicial review, these delivered its final report to the FCA during September 2016. remaining claims against RBS may then proceed to full hearing to assess the fairness of KPMGs role in the redress programme in In November 2016, the FCA published an update on its review.
If deemed unfair, this could have a response, RBS announced redress steps for SME customers in consequential impact on the reasonableness of the methodology the UK and the Republic of Ireland that were in GRG between applied to reviewed and settled IRHP files generally.
These steps were i an automatic refund of remains some uncertainty, it is not practicable reliably to estimate certain complex fees: and ii a new complaints process, the impact of this matter, if any, on RBS which may be material.
overseen by an Independent Third Party.
They were developed with the involvement of the FCA, which agreed that they were Investment advice review appropriate steps for RBS to take.
In February 2013, the FSA announced the results of a mystery shopping review it undertook into the investment advice offered RBS estimates the costs associated with the complaints review by banks and building societies to retail clients.
As a result of that process and the automatic refund of complex fees to be review the FSA announced that firms involved were cooperative approximately 400 million, which was recognised as a provision and agreed to take immediate action.
RBS was one of the firms in 2016.
This includes operational costs together with the cost of involved.
refunded complex fees and the additional estimated redress costs arising from the complaints process.
Of the 400 million The action required included a review of the training provided to provision, 150 million had been utilised by 31 December 2017. advisers, considering whether changes were necessary to both advice processes and controls for new business, and undertaking On 23 October 2017, the FCA published an interim report a past business review to identify any historic poor advice and incorporating a summary of the Skilled Persons report which where breaches of regulatory requirements are identified, to put stated that, further to the general investigation announced in this right for customers.
November 2016, the FCA had decided to carry out a more focused investigation.
The FCA published its final summary of the Subsequent to the FSA announcing the results of its mystery Skilled Persons report on 28 November 2017.
The UK House of shopping review, the FCA required RBS to carry out a past Commons Treasury Select Committee, seeking to rely on business review and customer contact exercise on a sample of Parliamentary powers, published the full version of the Skilled historic customers that received investment advice on certain Persons report on 20 February 2018. lump sum products through the UK Financial Planning channel of the UK Personal & Business Banking UK PBB segment of RBS, Interest rate hedging products IRHP redress programme which includes RBS plc and NatWest, during the period from From 2013, RBS and other banks undertook a redress exercise March 2012 until December 2012. and past business review in relation to the sale of interest rate This review was conducted under section 166 of the Financial hedging products to some small and medium sized businesses Services and Markets Act, under which a Skilled Person was classified as retail clients or private customers under FSA rules.
appointed to carry out the exercise.
Redress has been paid to This exercise was scrutinised by an independent reviewer, certain customers in this sample group.
KPMG appointed as a Skilled Person under section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act, and overseen by the FCA.
RBS provisions in relation to the above redress exercises total 1.47 billion for these matters, virtually all of which had been utilised at 31 December 2017.
Judicial Review of Skilled Persons role in IRHP review RBS has been named as an interested party in a number of claims for judicial review of KPMGs decisions as Skilled Person in RBSs previously disclosed IRHP redress programme.
This follows a similar claim from a customer of another UK bank, also against KPMG.
All of these claims were stayed pending the outcome of the other banks case.
The trial in that case was heard in January 2016.
321 Notes on the consolidated accounts payment card transactions with MasterCard and Maestro Litigation, investigations and reviews continued Following discussions with the FCA after issue of the draft branded consumer credit and debit cards in the EEA are in section 166 report, RBS agreed with the FCA that it would carry breach of competition law.
out a wider review remediation exercise relating to certain investment, insurance and pension sales from 1 January 2011 to Separately, in April 2013, the EC announced it was opening a 1 April 2015.
The project regarding review remediation of sales new investigation into interchange fees payable in respect of between 1 January 2011 and 1 April 2015 was due to finish at the payments made in the EEA by MasterCard cardholders from nonend of 2017 but this deadline is being extended with completion EEA countries.
On 3 August 2017, the EC announced it had also anticipated by the end of Q1 2018.
This is to allow completion of sent Visa a Supplementary Statement of Objections.
The EC outstanding remediation activity that was impacted by customer investigations are ongoing.
responses, and to receive information from third party providers, in addition to concluding small cohorts of work that were In June 2015, a regulation on interchange fees for card payments postponed until the additional scope was agreed.
The regulation requires the capping of both cross-border and domestic MIF rates for debit and credit In addition, discussions are ongoing with FCA with regard to consumer cards.
extending the scope of the review remediation exercise to include the period from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010, with a The regulation also sets out other reforms including to the formal decision expected during Q1 2018.
It is not currently Honour All Cards Rule which require merchants to accept all anticipated that any extension of scope will require an additional cards with the same level of MIF but not cards with different MIF provision to be taken.
In addition, RBS agreed with the FCA that it would carry out a In May 2015, the Competition & Markets Authority CMA remediation exercise, for a specific customer segment who were announced that it had closed the investigations into domestic sold a particular structured product, in response to concerns interchange fees on the grounds of administrative priorities.
raised by the FCA with regard to a the target market for the product and b how the product may have been described to Whilst there are no recent developments on the above to report, customers by certain advisers.
Redress has been paid to certain there remains uncertainty around the outcomes of the ongoing customers who took out the structured product.
EC investigation, and the impact of the regulation, and they may have a material adverse effect on the structure and operation of RBS provisions in relation to investment advice total 201 million four party card payment schemes in general and, therefore, on to date for these matters, of which 102 million had been utilised RBSs business in this sector.
Payment Protection Insurance PPI Since 2011, RBS has been implementing the FCAs policy Packaged accounts statement for the handling of complaints about the mis-selling of As a result of an uplift in packaged current account complaints, PPI Policy Statement 10 12.
RBS proactively put in place dedicated resources in 2013 to investigate and resolve complaints on an individual basis.
RBS In August 2017, the FCAs new rules and guidance on PPI has made gross provisions totalling 409 million to date for this complaints handling Policy Statement 17 3 came into force.
Policy Statement introduced new so called Plevin rules, under The FCA conducted a thematic review of packaged bank which customers may be eligible for redress if the bank earned a accounts across the UK from October 2014 to April 2016, the high level of commission from the sale of PPI, but did not results of which were published in October 2016.
RBS continues disclose this detail at the point of sale.
The Policy Statement also to take into consideration and, where relevant, address the introduced a two year PPI deadline, due to expire in August findings from this review.
2019, before which new PPI complaints must be made.
RBS is implementing the Policy Statement.
FCA investigation into RBS plcs compliance with the Money RBS has made provisions totalling 5.1 billion to date for PPI Laundering Regulations 2007 On 21 July 2017, the FCA notified RBS that it was undertaking an claims, including an additional provision of 175 million in 2017.
Of the 5.1 billion cumulative provision, 4.1 billion had been investigation into RBS plcs compliance with the Money utilised by 31 December 2017.
Laundering Regulations 2007 in relation to certain customers.
Following amendment to the scope of the investigation, there are currently three areas under review: 1 compliance with Money Laundering Regulations in respect of Money Service Business customers: 2 compliance with the Terrorism Act 2000 in relation to sanctions screening: and 3 the Suspicious Transactions regime in relation to the events surrounding a particular customer.
The investigations in all three areas are assessing both criminal and civil culpability.
RBS is cooperating with the investigations.
Multilateral interchange fees In September 2014, the Court of Justice upheld earlier decisions by the EU Commission and the General Court that MasterCards multilateral interchange fee MIF arrangements for cross border 322 Notes on the consolidated accounts Some uncertainty remains around the financial impact of the Litigation, investigations and reviews continued UK retail banking remedies once implemented and so it is not practicable reliably to In November 2014, the CMA announced its decision to proceed estimate the potential impact on RBS.
However, at this stage, this with a market investigation reference MIR into retail banking, impact is not expected to be material.
which would cover personal current account PCA and SME banking.
On 9 August 2016, the CMA published its final report.
FCA Asset Management Market Study The CMA concluded that there are a number of competition In November 2015, the FCA announced that a market study concerns in the provision of PCAs, business current accounts would be undertaken into asset management.
In November 2016, and SME lending, particularly around low levels of customers the FCA published the interim report which indicated that price searching and switching, resulting in banks not being put under competition is weak and expressed concerns around the lack of enough competitive pressure, and new products and new banks transparency on the objectives, and appropriate benchmarks, for not attracting customers quickly enough.
The final report set out reporting fund performance.
On 28 June 2017, the FCA remedies to address these concerns.
These included remedies published the final report which was broadly in line with the making it easier for customers to compare products, ensure interim report and sets out an extensive package of remedies customers benefit from technological advantages around open which include providing further protection to investors and driving banking, improve the current account switching service and competitive pressure on asset managers.
provide PCA overdraft customers with greater control over their charges along with additional measures targeted at SME Some uncertainty remains around the financial impact of the customers.
remedies once implemented and so it is not practicable reliably to estimate the potential impact on RBS.
However, at this stage, this On 2 February 2017 the CMA published the Retail Banking impact is not expected to be material.
Market Investigation Order 2017 the Order, which is the primary legal framework setting out the obligations for the FCA Mortgages Market Study implementation of the majority of remedies, including an In December 2016, the FCA launched a market study into the implementation deadline for each.
The FCA is expected to publish an interim report in Spring 2018 with the final report expected in Q4 Other remedies are to be delivered via undertakings signed by 2018.
Bacs and recommendations to be taken forward by other regulators including the FCA.
At this stage, as there is considerable uncertainty around the outcome of this market study, it is not practicable reliably to On 19 December 2017 the CMA published directions for RBS estimate the aggregate impact, if any, on RBS which may be and four other banks, which set out revised implementation dates material.
for the delivery of certain obligations relating to open banking under the Order.
On 29 January 2018 the CMA published FCA Strategic Review of Retail Banking Models separate directions for RBS, which set out revised On 11 May 2017 the FCA announced a two phase strategic implementation dates for the delivery of certain obligations review of retail banking models.
The FCA will use the review to requiring PCA overdraft alerts to be sent to customers under the understand how these models operate, including how free if in Order.
credit banking is paid for and the impact of changes such as increased use of digital channels and reduced branch usage.
At this stage there remains uncertainty around the financial impact of the remedies once implemented, and so it is not Phase 1 will allow the FCA to enhance its understanding of practicable to estimate the potential impact on RBS, which may existing models and how these impact competition and conduct.
Phase 2 will evaluate the impacts of economic, technological, social and regulatory factors on these models.
A project update is FCA Investment and Corporate Banking Market Study expected in Q2 2018 outlining the FCAs preliminary conclusions In February 2015, the FCA launched a market study into from Phase 1. investment and corporate banking.
In October 2016 the FCA At this early stage, as there is considerable uncertainty around published its final report.
It found that whilst many clients feel well the outcome of this review, it is not practicable reliably to served by primary capital market services there were some areas estimate the aggregate impact, if any, on RBS, which in due where improvements could be made to encourage competition, course may be material.
It set out a package of remedies, including prohibiting the use of restrictive contractual clauses and ending league table misrepresentation by asking league table providers to review their recognition criteria.
The prohibition on restrictive contractual clauses took effect from 3 January 2018.
323 Notes on the consolidated accounts Furthermore, RBS continues to work closely with the regulators in Litigation, investigations and reviews continued Governance and risk management consent order its efforts to fulfil its obligations under the Governance Order, In July 2011, RBS agreed with the Board of Governors of the which will remain in effect until terminated by the regulators.
Federal Reserve System, the New York State Banking Department, the Connecticut Department of Banking, and the RBS may be subject to formal and informal supervisory actions Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to and may be required by its US banking supervisors to take enter into a consent Cease and Desist Order Governance Order further actions and implement additional remedial measures with which is publicly available to address deficiencies related to respect to these and additional matters.
RBSs activities in the governance, risk management and compliance systems and US may be subject to significant limitations and or conditions.
controls in the US branches of RBS plc and RBS N. V. branches the US Branches.
US dollar processing consent order In December 2013 RBS and RBS plc agreed a settlement with In the Governance Order, RBS agreed to create the following the Federal Reserve, the New York State Department of written plans or programmes: Financial Services DFS, and the Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC with respect to RBS plcs historical compliance Key points with US economic sanction regulations outside the US.
As part of a plan to strengthen board and senior management oversight of the settlement, RBS and RBS plc entered into a consent Cease the corporate governance, management, risk management, and and Desist Order with the Federal Reserve US Dollar operations of RBSs US operations on an enterprise-wide and Processing Order, which remains in effect until terminated by the business line basis: Federal Reserve.
The US Dollar Processing Order which is an enterprise-wide risk management programme for RBSs US publicly available indicated, among other things, that RBS and RBS plc lacked adequate risk management and legal review operations: policies and procedures to ensure that activities conducted a plan to oversee compliance by RBSs US operations with all outside the US comply with applicable OFAC regulations.
applicable US laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory guidance: a Bank Secrecy Act anti-money laundering compliance programme for the US Branches on a consolidated basis: RBS agreed to create an OFAC compliance programme to a plan to improve the US Branches compliance with all ensure compliance with OFAC regulations by RBSs global applicable provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and its rules and business lines outside the US, and to adopt, implement, and regulations as well as the requirements of Regulation K of the comply with the programme.
Prior to and in connection with the Federal Reserve: US Dollar Processing Order, RBS has made investments in a customer due diligence programme designed to ensure technology, hired and trained personnel, and revised compliance, reasonably the identification and timely, accurate, and complete risk management, and other policies and procedures.
reporting by the US Branches of all known or suspected violations of law or suspicious transactions to law enforcement Under the US Dollar Processing Order as part of the OFAC and supervisory authorities, as required by applicable suspicious compliance programme RBS was required to appoint an activity reporting laws and regulations: and independent consultant to conduct an annual review of OFAC a plan designed to enhance the US Branches compliance with compliance policies and procedures and their implementation Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC requirements.
and an appropriate risk-focused sampling of US dollar payments.
RBS appointed the independent consultant and their reports were The Governance Order identified specific items to be addressed, submitted to the authorities in June 2015.
The independent considered, and included in each proposed plan or programme.
consultant review examined a significant number of sanctions RBS also agreed in the Governance Order to adopt and alerts and no reportable issues were identified.
implement the plans and programmes after approval by the Pursuant to the US Dollar Processing Order, the authorities regulators, to comply fully with the plans and programmes requested a second annual review to be conducted by an thereafter, and to submit to the regulators periodic written independent consultant.
The second review was conducted by progress reports regarding compliance with the Governance the independent consultant and reports were submitted to the Order.
In line with the first review, and following examination of a significant number of sanctions alerts, RBS has created, submitted, and adopted plans and or the independent consultant did not identify any reportable issues.
programmes to address each of the areas identified above.
In The authorities have requested a third annual review to be connection with RBSs efforts to implement these plans and conducted and independent consultant reports are expected to programmes, it has, among other things, made investments in be issued during Q1 2018.
In addition, pursuant to requirements technology, hired and trained additional personnel, and revised of the US Dollar Processing Order, RBS has provided the compliance, risk management, and other policies and procedures required written submissions, including quarterly updates, in a for RBSs US operations.
RBS continues to test the effectiveness timely manner, and RBS continues to participate in a constructive of the remediation efforts it has undertaken to ensure they are dialogue with the authorities.
sustainable and meet regulators' expectations.
324 Notes on the consolidated accounts Litigation, investigations and reviews continued Regulator requests concerning certain historic Russian US Swiss tax programme transactions In August 2013, the DOJ announced a programme for Swiss Media coverage in 2017 highlighted an alleged money laundering banks the Programme which provides Swiss banks with an scheme involving Russian entities between 2010 and 2014. opportunity to obtain resolution, through non-prosecution Allegedly certain European banks, including RBS and 16 other agreements or non-target letters, of the DOJs investigations of UK based financial institutions, and certain US banks, were the role that Swiss banks played in concealing the assets of US involved in processing certain transactions associated with this tax payers in offshore accounts US related accounts.
RBS has responded to requests for information from the December 2013, Coutts & Co Ltd. a member of the Group FCA, PRA and regulators in other jurisdictions.
incorporated in Switzerland, notified the DOJ that it intended to participate in the Programme.
Review and investigation of treatment of tracker mortgage customers in Ulster Bank Ireland DAC formerly Ulster Bank As required by the Programme, Coutts & Co Ltd. subsequently Ireland Limited conducted a review of its US related accounts and presented the In December 2015, the Central Bank of Ireland CBI announced results of the review to the DOJ.
In December 2015, Coutts & Co that it had written to a number of lenders requiring them to put in Ltd. entered into a non-prosecution agreement the NPA in place a robust plan and framework to review the treatment of which Coutts & Co Ltd. paid a US$78.5 million penalty and customers who have been sold mortgages with a tracker interest acknowledged responsibility for certain conduct set forth in a rate or with a tracker interest rate entitlement.
The CBI stated that statement of facts accompanying the agreement.
Under the NPA, the intended purpose of the review was to identify any cases which has a term of four years, Coutts & Co Ltd. is required, where customers contractual rights under the terms of their among other things, to provide certain information, cooperate mortgage agreements were not fully honoured, or where lenders did not fully comply with various regulatory requirements and with DOJs investigations, and commit no U. S. federal offences.
If Coutts & Co Ltd. abides by the NPA, the DOJ will not prosecute it standards regarding disclosure and transparency for customers.
for certain tax-related and monetary transaction offences in The CBI has required Ulster Bank Ireland DAC UBI DAC, a connection with US related accounts.
member of RBS, incorporated in the Republic of Ireland, to participate in this review and UBI DAC is co-operating with the Enforcement proceedings and investigations in relation to Coutts CBI in this regard.
UBI DAC submitted its phase 2 report to the & Co Ltd CBI on 31 March 2017, identifying impacted customers.
The The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority FINMA has redress and compensation phase phase 3 commenced in Q4 been taking enforcement proceedings against Coutts & Co Ltd, a 2017. member of RBS incorporated in Switzerland, with regard to certain client accounts held with Coutts & Co Ltd relating to RBS has made provisions totalling 298 million 248 million to allegations in connection with the Malaysian sovereign wealth date for this matter, including an additional provision of 87 fund 1MDB.
On 2 February 2017, FINMA announced that Coutts million 76 million in 2017.
Of the 298 million 248 million & Co Ltd had breached money laundering regulations by failing to cumulative provision, 75 million 64 million had been utilised carry out adequate background checks into business by 31 December 2017. relationships and transactions associated with 1MDB.
FINMA accordingly required Coutts & Co Ltd to disgorge profits of CHF Separately, in April 2016, the CBI notified UBI DAC that it was 6.5 million.
FINMA is currently investigating three individuals in also commencing an investigation under its Administrative connection with 1MDB.
Sanctions Procedure into suspected breaches of the Consumer Protection Code 2006 during the period 4 August 2006 to 30 In addition, Coutts & Co Ltd is cooperating with investigations June 2008 in relation to certain customers who switched from and enquiries from authorities in other jurisdictions in relation to tracker mortgages to fixed rate mortgages.
This investigation is the same subject matter.
In this context, the Monetary Authority ongoing and UBI DAC continues to co-operate with the CBI.
of Singapore MAS s supervisory examination of Coutts & Co Ltds Singapore branch revealed breaches of anti-money As part of an internal review of the wider retail and commercial loan portfolios extending from the tracker mortgage examination laundering requirements.
MAS imposed on Coutts & Co Ltd financial penalties amounting to SGD 2.4 million in December programme, UBI DAC identified further legacy business issues.
A 2016. programme is ongoing to identify and remediate impacted customers and a charge of 101 million 89 million has been The outcomes of other proceedings, investigations and enquiries recognised in 2017 based on expected remediation and project are uncertain but may include financial consequences and or costs in relation to these items.
325 Notes on the consolidated accounts 32 Net cash flow from operating activities 2017 2016 2015 m m m Operating profit loss before tax - continuing operations 2,239 4,082 2,703 Profit before tax - discontinued operations 1,766 Decrease increase in prepayments and accrued income 1 42 410 Interest on subordinated liabilities 572 845 875 Decrease in income accruals 236 444 1,075 Impairment losses releases 493 478 624 Loans and advances written-off net of recoveries 1,054 3,586 8,789 Unwind of discount on impairment losses 86 113 144 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 75 18 91 Profit on sale of subsidiaries and associates 155 22 1,135 Profit loss on sale of securities 226 71 4 Charge for defined benefit pension schemes 309 267 523 Pension schemes curtailments or settlements gain loss 66 1 65 Cash contribution to defined benefit pension schemes 627 4,786 1,060 Other provisions charged net of releases 1,931 7,216 4,566 Other provisions utilised 6,477 2,699 2,202 Depreciation and amortisation 808 778 1,180 Loss on redemption of own debt 7 126 263 Loss on reclassification to disposal groups 273 Write down of goodwill and other intangible assets 29 159 1,332 Elimination of foreign exchange differences 426 6,518 1,501 Other non-cash items 21 619 599 Net cash outflow from trading activities 2,886 11,892 7,598 Decrease increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 2,466 12,960 58,766 Increase decrease in securities 1,319 16,741 13,149 Increase decrease in other assets 221 1,195 2,808 Decrease in derivative assets 86,138 15,562 91,311 Changes in operating assets 87,064 20,538 166,034 Increase decrease in deposits by banks and customers 25,449 10,418 43,597 Increase decrease in debt securities in issue 3,326 3,967 20,580 Decrease increase in other liabilities 381 422 4,465 Decrease in derivative liabilities 81,969 18,258 94,951 Increase decrease in settlement balances and short positions 8,658 104 2,782 Changes in operating liabilities 44,917 12,125 157,445 Income taxes paid 520 171 73 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 38,741 3,650 918 33 Analysis of the net investment in business interests and intangible assets 2017 2016 2015 Acquisitions and disposals m m m Fair value given for businesses acquired 131 87 59 Net outflow of cash in respect of acquisitions 131 87 59 Net assets liabilities sold 177 400 2,041 Non-cash consideration 15 5 Profit on disposal 155 22 1,135 Net cash and cash equivalents disposed 55 1,959 Net inflow outflow of cash in respect of disposals 317 328 1,053 Dividends received from associates 1 9 11 Cash expenditure on intangible assets 384 480 614 Net outflow inflow 199 886 391 Note: 1 Includes cash proceeds of 1,628 million in 2015 relating to the disposal of the controlling interest in Citizens.
326 Notes on the consolidated accounts 34 Interest received and paid 2017 2016 2015 m m m Interest received 10,946 11,321 11,788 Interest paid 2,300 2,638 3,598 8,646 8,683 8,190 35 Analysis of changes in financing during the year Share capital, share premium, paid-in equity and merger reserve Subordinated liabilities 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 m m m m m m At 1 January 52,979 50,577 45,935 19,419 19,847 22,905 Issue of ordinary shares 306 300 307 Issue of Additional Tier 1 capital notes 2,046 2,012 Redemption of paid-in equity 720 110 150 Redemption of subordinated liabilities 5,747 3,606 3,047 Net cash outflow inflow from financing 414 2,236 2,169 5,747 3,606 3,047 Transfer to retained earnings 25,789 Conversion of B shares 4,590 Ordinary shares issued in respect of employee share schemes 71 166 225 Redemption of debt preference shares 748 Redemption of equity preference shares 1 Transfer of merger reserve to retained earnings 2,341 Other adjustments including foreign exchange 196 950 3,178 11 At 31 December 27,791 52,979 50,577 12,722 19,419 19,847 36 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 2015 m m m At 1 January - cash 88,414 94,832 92,060 - cash equivalents 10,156 8,760 15,844 98,570 103,592 107,904 Net cash outflow 24,035 5,022 4,312 At 31 December 122,605 98,570 103,592 Comprising: Cash and balances at central banks 98,337 74,250 79,404 Treasury bills and debt securities 427 387 1,578 Loans and advances to banks 23,841 23,933 22,610 Cash and cash equivalents 122,605 98,570 103,592 Note: 1 Includes cash collateral posted with bank counterparties in respect of derivative liabilities of 6,883 million 2016 - 6,661 million: 2015 - 11,031 million.
Certain members of RBS are required by law or regulation to maintain balances with the central banks in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
These balances are set out below.
2017 2016 2015 Bank of England 0.6bn 0.5bn 0.5bn fide Nederlandsche Bank 0.1bn 0.4bn 0.3bn 327 Notes on the consolidated accounts 37 Segmental analysis Reportable operating segments a Reportable segments The directors manage RBS primarily by class of business and Following the changes detailed the reportable operating present the segmental analysis on that basis.
This includes the segments are as follows: review of net interest income for each class of business - interest Personal & Business Banking PBB comprises two reportable receivable and payable for all reportable segments is therefore segments: UK Personal & Business Banking UK PBB and presented net.
Segments charge market prices for services rendered between each other: funding charges between Ulster Bank RoI.
UK PBB serves individuals and mass affluent segments are determined by RBS Treasury, having regard to customers in the UK together with small businesses generally up commercial demands.
The segment performance measure is to 2 million turnover.
UK PBB includes Ulster Bank customers operating profit loss.
Ulster Bank RoI serves individuals and businesses in the Republic of Ireland RoI.
Segmental reorganisation and business transfers RBS continues to deliver on its plan to build a strong, simple and Commercial & Private Banking CPB comprises two reportable fair bank for both customers and shareholders.
To support this, segments: Commercial Banking and Private Banking.
and in preparation for the UK ring-fencing regime, the previously Commercial Banking serves commercial and corporate reported operating segments were realigned in Q4 2017 and a customers in the UK and Western Europe.
Private Banking number of business transfers completed.
serves UK connected high net worth individuals.
Segmental reorganisation The previously reported operating segments are now realigned RBS International RBSI serves retail, commercial, corporate and comparatives have been re-presented as follows: and financial institution customers in Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of The former Williams & Glyn reportable operating segment Man and Gibraltar and financial institution customers in has been integrated into the UK PBB reportable segment: Luxembourg and London.
The former Capital Resolution reportable operating segment has been integrated into the NatWest Markets reportable NatWest Markets offers corporate and institutional customers segment, with the exception of the costs in relation to the global market access, providing them with trading, risk RMBS claims, which have been transferred to the Central & management and financing solutions through its trading and sales operations in London, Singapore and Stamford and sales other items reportable segment: offices in Dublin, Hong Kong and Tokyo.
The RBSI reportable operating segment is no longer presented within the CPB franchise.
Central items & other includes corporate functions, such as RBS Business transfers treasury, finance, risk management, compliance, legal, On 1 October 2017 the following changes were made to RBSs communications and human resources.
Central functions businesses, which impacts its financial reporting but where manages RBS capital resources and RBS-wide regulatory comparatives have not been re-presented: projects and provides services to the reportable segments.
Shipping and other activities, which were formerly in Capital Balances in relation to legacy litigation issues and the Resolution, were transferred from the NatWest Markets international private banking business are included in Central reportable segment to the Commercial Banking reportable items in the relevant periods.
UK PBB Collective Investment Funds CIFL business was Allocation of central balance sheet items transferred to the Private Banking reportable segment in RBS allocates all central costs relating to Services and Functions order to better serve customers.
to the business using appropriate drivers, these are reported as The RBS International RBSI reportable operating segment indirect costs in the segmental income statements.
Assets and was aligned to the legal entity The Royal Bank of Scotland risk-weighted assets held centrally, mainly relating to RBS International Holdings Limited.
This predominantly involved Treasury, are allocated to the business using appropriate drivers.
transfers from Private Banking, and Services and Functions within Central items & other in preparation for the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime.
Commercial Banking whole business securitisations and relevant financial institutions RFI were transferred to NatWest Markets during December 2017.
RFIs are prohibited from being within the ring-fence due to their nature and exposure to global financial markets.
The move is in preparation for the implementation of the UK ringfencing regime.
UK USA Europe RoW Total 2017 m m m m m Total revenue 15,011 192 655 205 16,063 Net interest income 8,611 4 346 34 8,987 Net fees and commissions 2,192 97 113 53 2,455 Income from trading activities 570 83 24 5 634 Other operating income 806 22 121 108 1,057 Total income 12,179 198 556 200 13,133 Operating profit loss before tax 3,230 580 485 74 2,239 Total assets 662,314 38,485 34,280 2,977 738,056 Of which total assets held for sale 182 10 3 195 Total liabilities 626,103 36,564 25,171 1,125 688,963 Of which total liabilities held for sale 10 10 Net assets attributable to equity owners and non-controlling interests 36,211 1,921 9,109 1,852 49,093 Contingent liabilities and commitments 128,127 78 7,823 22 136,050 Cost to acquire property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1,479 1 11 10 1,501 2016 Total revenue 14,606 264 738 337 15,945 Net interest income 8,243 82 302 81 8,708 Net fees and commissions 2,287 9 175 64 2,535 Income from trading activities 790 159 18 7 974 Other operating income 261 40 9 143 373 Total income 11,581 210 504 295 12,590 Operating loss profit before tax 2,214 1,652 266 50 4,082 Total assets 715,685 44,447 32,142 6,382 798,656 Of which total assets held for sale 13 13 Total liabilities 675,089 44,513 26,311 3,339 749,252 Of which total liabilities held for sale 15 15 Net assets attributable to equity owners and non-controlling interests 40,596 66 5,831 3,043 49,404 Contingent liabilities and commitments 141,963 639 8,038 51 150,691 Cost to acquire property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1,323 3 54 12 1,392 2015 Total revenue 14,724 315 1,247 604 16,890 Net interest income 7,947 162 407 251 8,767 Net fees and commissions 2,377 139 334 83 2,933 Income from trading activities 942 44 85 11 1,060 Other operating income 102 118 34 145 163 Total income 11,368 227 860 468 12,923 Operating loss profit before tax 87 2,723 261 154 2,703 Total assets 673,409 77,514 42,133 22,352 815,408 Of which total assets held for sale 15 1,251 2,220 3,486 Total liabilities 630,818 75,971 34,942 19,530 761,261 Of which total liabilities held for sale 16 418 2,546 2,980 Net assets attributable to equity owners and non-controlling interests 42,591 1,543 7,191 2,822 54,147 Contingent liabilities and commitments 127,781 9,729 14,961 1,281 153,752 Cost to acquire property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1,331 70 36 33 1,470 331 Notes on the consolidated accounts 38 Directors' and key management remuneration 2017 2016 Directors' remuneration 000 000 Non-executive directors emoluments 1,747 1,466 Chairman and executive directors emoluments 5,299 5,801 7,046 7,267 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive plans and share option plans 1,225 993 8,271 8,260 No directors accrued benefits under defined benefit schemes or money purchase schemes during 2017 and 2016.
The executive directors may participate in the company's long-term incentive plans, executive share option and sharesave schemes and details of their interests in the company's shares arising from their participation are given in the Directors' remuneration report.
Details of the remuneration received by each director is also given in the Directors' remuneration report.
Compensation of key management The aggregate remuneration of directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows: 2017 2016 000 000 Short-term benefits 19,019 20,350 Post-employment benefits 434 471 Share-based payments 3,558 2,606 23,011 23,427 Key management comprises members of the Executive Committee.
39 Transactions with directors and key management a At 31 December 2017, amounts outstanding in relation to transaction, arrangements and agreements entered into by authorised institutions in the Group, as defined in UK legislation, were 24,376 in respect of loans to six persons who were directors of the company at any time during the financial period.
b For the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, key management comprise directors of the company and members of the Executive Committee.
The captions in the Group's primary financial statements include the following amounts attributable, in aggregate, to key management: 2017 2016 000 000 Loans and advances to customers 3,942 4,127 Customer accounts 23,619 17,045 Key management have banking relationships with Group entities which are entered into in the normal course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with other persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
These transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
332 Notes on the consolidated accounts 40 Related parties UK Government Associates Transactions with associates have given rise to the following: On 1 December 2008, the UK Government through HM Treasury became the ultimate controlling party of The Royal Bank of 2017 2016 Scotland Group plc.
The UK Government's shareholding is m m managed by UK Financial Investments Limited, a company Loans and advances 130 150 wholly owned by the UK Government.
As a result, the UK Customer deposits 111 64 Government and UK Government controlled bodies became related parties of the Group.
During 2015, all of the B shares held Total income 28 30 by the UK Government were converted into ordinary shares of 1 Operating expenses 23 8 each see Note 25.
Other related parties The Group enters into transactions with many of these bodies on a In their roles as providers of finance, RBS companies provide an arms length basis.
Transactions include the payment of: taxes development and other types of capital support to principally UK corporation tax see Note 6 and value added tax: businesses.
These investments are made in the normal national insurance contributions: local authority rates: and course of business and on arm's length terms.
In some regulatory fees and levies including the bank levy see Note 3 instances, the investment may extend to ownership or control and FSCS levies see Note 31 together with banking over 20% or more of the voting rights of the investee transactions such as loans and deposits undertaken in the company.
However, these investments are not considered to normal course of banker-customer relationships.
give rise to transactions of a materiality requiring disclosure under IAS 24.
Bank of England facilities b RBS recharges The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension The Group may participate in a number of schemes operated by Fund with the cost of administration services incurred by it.
the Bank of England in the normal course of business.
The amounts involved are not material to the Group.
c In accordance with IAS 24, transactions or balances between Members of the Group that are UK authorised institutions are RBS entities that have been eliminated on consolidation are required to maintain non-interest bearing cash ratio deposits not reported.
with the Bank of England amounting to 0.18% of their average d The captions in the primary financial statements of the parent eligible liabilities in excess of 600 million.
They also have company include amounts attributable to subsidiaries.
These access to Bank of England reserve accounts: sterling current amounts have been disclosed in aggregate in the relevant accounts that earn interest at the Bank of England Rate.
notes to the financial statements.
41 Post balance sheet events There have been no other significant events between 31 December 2017 and the date of approval of these accounts which would require a change to or additional disclosure in the accounts.
333 Parent company financial statements and notes Balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Note m m Assets Investments in Group undertakings 7 47,559 44,608 Loans due from subsidiaries 24,983 28,964 Debt securities 6 104 398 Derivatives with subsidiaries 163 373 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 53 70 Total assets 3 72,862 74,413 Liabilities Deposits due to subsidiaries 944 Debt securities in issue 9,202 6,832 Derivatives with subsidiaries 284 260 Provisions, accruals and other liabilities 438 992 Subordinated liabilities 8 7,977 10,668 Total liabilities 3 17,901 19,696 Owners equity 54,961 54,717 Total liabilities and equity 72,862 74,413 Owners equity includes a total comprehensive profit for the year, dealt with in the accounts of the parent company, of 1,118 million 2016 - 5,255 million loss: 2015 - 1,950 million loss.
Refer to Note 2 on the parent company accounts.
The accompanying notes on pages 337 to 356 form an integral part of these financial statements.
SC45551 334 Parent company financial statements and notes Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2015 m m m Called-up share capital At 1 January 11,823 11,625 6,877 Ordinary shares issued 142 198 159 Conversion of B shares 1 4,590 Preference shares redeemed 2 1 At 31 December 11,965 11,823 11,625 Paid-in equity At 1 January 4,478 2,438 431 Additional Tier 1 capital notes 3 2,040 2,007 Redeemed reclassified 4 431 At 31 December 4,047 4,478 2,438 Share premium account At 1 January 25,693 25,425 25,052 Ordinary shares issued 235 268 373 Capital reduction 5 25,789 Redemption of debt preference shares 2 748 At 31 December 887 25,693 25,425 Merger reserve At 1 January 2,341 Transfer on impairment of investment in RBS plc 2,341 At 31 December Cash flow hedging reserve At 1 January 186 32 Amount recognised in equity 157 243 44 Amount transferred from equity to earnings 47 54 4 Tax 38 35 8 At 31 December 20 186 32 Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 4,542 4,542 9,131 Conversion of B shares 1 4,590 Capital reduction 5 4,542 Preference shares redeemed 2 1 At 31 December 4,542 4,542 Retained earnings At 1 January 7,995 16,252 17,483 Profit loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and other equity owners 1,284 5,409 1,982 Equity preference dividends paid 234 260 297 Dividend access share dividend 1,193 Paid-in equity dividends paid, net of tax 390 235 79 Capital reduction 5 30,331 Redemption of debt preference shares 2 748 Redemption of equity preference shares 2 1,160 1,214 Transfer on impairment of investment in RBS plc 2,341 Reclassification of paid-in equity 196 At 31 December 38,042 7,995 16,252 Owners equity at 31 December 54,961 54,717 60,314 Notes: 1 In October 2015, all B shares were converted into ordinary shares of 1 each.
2 During 2017, non-cumulative US dollar preference shares recorded as debt were redeemed at their original issue price of US$1.1 billion.
The nominal value of 0.3 million 2015 - 1.0 million was transferred from share capital to capital redemption reserve and ordinary owners equity was reduced by 0.4 billion 2015 - 0.2 billion in respect of the movement in exchange rates since issue.
3 AT1 capital notes totalling 2.0 billion issued in August 2016 2015 - 2.0 billion.
4 Paid-in equity reclassified to liabilities as a result of the call of US$564 million and CAD321 million EMTN notes in August 2017 redeemed in October 2017.
5 On 15 June 2017, the Court of Session approved a reduction of RBSG plc capital so that the amounts which stood to the credit of share premium account and capital redemption reserve were transferred to retained earnings.
335 Parent company financial statements and notes Cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2015 Note m m m Operating profit loss before tax 1,471 5,416 1,805 Write-back write-down of investment in subsidiaries 562 6,106 2,827 Gain on redemption of investment in Group undertakings 298 Interest on subordinated liabilities 497 509 486 Elimination of foreign exchange differences 713 1,506 265 Other non-cash items 472 1,247 142 Changes in operating assets and liabilities 4,688 6,540 1,503 Income taxes paid received 64 140 175 Net cash flows from operating activities 10 4,973 3,026 3,593 Sale and maturity of securities 264 794 934 Purchase of securities 1,067 Investment in subsidiaries 2,461 50 Disposal of subsidiaries and associates 119 1,744 Net cash flows from investing activities 2,078 2,538 183 Issue of ordinary shares 306 300 307 Issue of Additional Tier 1 capital notes 2,040 2,007 Redemption of equity preference shares 1,160 1,214 Redemption of subordinated liabilities 1,665 425 1,745 Dividends paid 583 495 376 Dividends access share 1,193 Interest on subordinated liabilities 514 512 497 Redemption of paid-in equity 627 Redemption of debt preference shares 748 Net cash flows from financing activities 3,831 1,445 1,518 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 14 122 9 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 950 1,811 1,901 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,195 3,006 1,105 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 13 245 1,195 3,006 The accompanying notes on pages 337 to 356 form an integral part of these financial statements.
336 Parent company financial statements and notes 1 Presentation of accounts The accounts are prepared on a going concern basis refer to the Report of the directors, page 112 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee of the IASB as adopted by the European Union together IFRS.
The company's financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and are presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The company is incorporated in the UK and registered in Scotland.
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and certain issued securities are stated at fair value.
Recognised financial assets and financial liabilities in fair value hedges are adjusted for changes in fair value in respect of the risk that is hedged.
The accounting policies that are applicable to the company are included in RBS accounting polices which are set out on pages 251 to 263 of the consolidated financial statements, except that it has no policy regarding Basis of consolidation and that the companys investments in its subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment.
Critical accounting policies and sources of estimation uncertainty The reported results of the company are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial statements.
The judgements and assumptions involved in the companys accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are those involved in assessing the impairment, if any, in its investments in subsidiaries.
At each reporting date, the company assesses whether there is any indication that its investment in a subsidiary is impaired.
If any such indication exists, the company undertakes an impairment test by comparing the carrying value of the investment in the subsidiary with its estimated recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an investment in a subsidiary is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgments: the choice of appropriate discount and growth rates: and the estimation of fair value.
Accounting developments International Financial Reporting Standards A number of IFRSs and amendments to IFRS were in issue at 31 December 2017 that would affect the Company from 1 January 2018 or later.
Effective 1 January 2018 - IFRS 9 In July 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with an effective date of 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 replaces the current financial instruments standard IAS 39, setting out new accounting requirements in a number of areas.
The principle features of IFRS 9 are disclosed in the RBS accounting policies.
The impact on the company is as follows: Transition The classification and measurement and impairment requirements will be applied retrospectively by adjusting the opening balance sheet at the date of initial application, with no requirement to restate comparative periods.
In summary, on 1 January 2018, the estimated post tax increase in equity is not more than 0.2 billion.
There will be no restatement of accounts prior to 2018.
The Group has opted to early adopt the IFRS 9 amendment on negative compensation with effect from 1 January 2018: this is expected to be endorsed for use in the EU in early 2018.
337 Parent company financial statements and notes 2 Profit dealt with in the accounts of the company As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the primary financial statements of the company do not include an income statement or a statement of comprehensive income.
Condensed information is set out below.
2017 2016 2015 Income statement m m m Dividends received from subsidiaries 663 44 Net interest income from subsidiaries 918 942 964 Other net interest income, non-interest income and operating expenses 9 915 14 Write-back write-down of investments in subsidiaries see Note 7 562 6,106 2,827 Operating profit loss before tax 1,471 5,416 1,805 Tax charge credit 187 7 177 Profit loss for the year 1,284 5,409 1,982 2017 2016 2015 Statement of comprehensive income m m m Profit loss for the year 1,284 5,409 1,982 Cash flow hedges 204 189 40 Tax 38 35 8 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 1,118 5,255 1,950 Attributable to: Preference shareholders 234 260 297 Paid-in equity holders 390 235 79 Dividend access share 1,193 Ordinary shareholders 494 6,943 2,326 1,118 5,255 1,950 The company did not pay an ordinary dividend in 2017, 2016 or 2015.
3 Financial instruments - classification The following table shows the company's financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instruments in IAS 39.
2017 2016 m m Assets Investment in Group undertakings 47,559 44,608 Loans and advances to banks 1 - loans and receivables 14,503 28,867 Loans and advances to customers 1 - loans and receivables 10,480 97 Debt securities - loans and receivables 104 398 Derivatives 1 - held-for-trading 27 12 - hedging 136 361 163 373 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets - non-financial assets 53 70 72,862 74,413 Liabilities Deposits by banks 2 - amortised cost 944 Debt securities in issue - amortised cost 9,122 6,745 - designated as at fair value through profit or loss 80 87 9,202 6,832 Derivatives 2 - held-for-trading 71 67 - hedging 213 193 284 260 Provisions, accruals and other liabilities - non-financial liabilities 438 992 Subordinated liabilities - amortised cost 7,977 10,668 17,901 19,696 Owners equity 54,961 54,717 72,862 74,413 Notes: 1 Due from subsidiaries.
338 Parent company financial statements and notes 4 Financial instruments - fair value The following table shows the carrying value and fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost on the balance sheet.
2017 2016 Carrying Carrying value Fair value value Fair value bn bn bn bn Financial assets Loans and advances due from subsidiaries 1 25.0 25.4 28.9 29.7 Debt securities 2 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.7 Financial liabilities Deposits due to subsidiaries 3 0.9 1.0 Debt securities in issue 2 9.1 9.8 6.7 6.9 Subordinated liabilities 2 8.0 8.8 10.7 10.9 Notes: 1 Fair value hierarchy: level 2 - 11.3 billion 2016 - 26.9 billion and level 3 - 14.1 billion 2016 - 2.8 billion.
5 Financial instruments - maturity analysis Remaining maturity The following table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments, based on contractual date of maturity.
2017 2016 Less than More than Total Less than More than Total 12 months 12 months 12 months 12 months m m m m m m Assets Loans and advances due from subsidiaries 19,340 5,643 24,983 17,386 11,578 28,964 Debt securities 104 104 10 388 398 Derivatives with subsidiaries 25 138 163 23 350 373 Liabilities Deposits due to subsidiaries 944 944 Debt securities in issue 88 9,114 9,202 821 6,011 6,832 Derivatives with subsidiaries 70 214 284 66 194 260 Subordinated liabilities 320 7,657 7,977 77 10,591 10,668 Financial liabilities: contractual maturity The following table shows undiscounted cash flows payable up to 20 years from the balance sheet date, including future interest payments.
0-3 months 3-12 months 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-10 years 10-20 years 2017 m m m m m m Amounts due to subsidiaries Debt securities in issue 116 286 1,828 2,715 6,052 Subordinated liabilities 60 649 876 876 7,193 2,080 176 935 2,704 3,591 13,245 2,080 2016 Amounts due to subsidiaries 969 Debt securities in issue 497 643 1,882 339 5,141 Subordinated liabilities 115 550 1,505 1,211 8,757 2,221 612 2,162 3,387 1,550 13,898 2,221 For further information on the timing of cash flows to settle financial liabilities, refer to Note 10 on the consolidated accounts.
339 Parent company financial statements and notes 6 Debt securities Debt securities comprise the partial repurchase of preferred securities issued by the trusts referred to in Note 26 on the consolidated accounts.
7 Investments in Group undertakings Investments in Group undertakings are carried at cost less impairment.
Movements during the year were as follows: 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 44,608 52,129 Currency translation and other adjustments 31 Additions 2,461 Disposals 72 1,446 Write back impairment of investments 562 6,106 At 31 December 47,559 44,608 In 2017 additions principally relate to the acquisition of the Royal Bank of Scotland International Holdings Limited from The Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS plc.
The write-back in 2017 relates to the partial reversal of the companys investment in RFS Holdings B. V..
The majority of the impairment charge for 2016 relates to the companys investment in RBS plc.
At 31 December 2017, the amount by which it exceeded its carrying value based on its value in use was 0.8 billion.
The key assumptions applied in assessing the carrying value of the companys investment in RBS plc are terminal growth rate of underlying business, the pre-tax discount rate, income and costs of future periods.
The underlying sensitivities in connection to the Groups reportable segments are disclosed in Note 15 on the consolidated accounts.
The following sensitivities reduce the available headroom of 0.8 billion 2016: 2.9 billion and result in a deficit indicating potential impairment.
Remaining headroom potential impairment 2017 2016 bn bn 1% adverse movement Discount Rate 4.8 3.4 1% adverse movement Terminal Growth Rate 1.4 5% adverse movement in Costs 0.8 1.2 5% adverse movement in Income 1.8 0.4 The principal subsidiary undertakings of the company are shown below.
Their capital consists of ordinary and preference shares which are unlisted with the exception of certain preference shares issued by NatWest.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and RFS Holdings B. V. are directly owned by the company, and all other subsidiary undertakings are owned either by the company, or directly, or indirectly through intermediate holding companies.
All of these subsidiaries are included in RBS's consolidated financial statements and have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
Country of incorporation and Nature of business principal area of operation Group interest The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Banking Great Britain 100% National Westminster Bank Plc 1 BankingGreat Britain100% Coutts & Company 2 Private banking Great Britain 100% RBS Securities Inc.
Broker dealer US 100% Ulster Bank Limited Banking Northern Ireland 100% Ulster Bank Ireland Designated Activity Company Banking Republic of Ireland 100% The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited Financial Institution Jersey 100% Notes: 1 The company does not hold any of the preference shares in issue.
2 Coutts & Company is incorporated with unlimited liability.
Its registered office is 440 Strand, London WC2R 0QS.
For full information on all related undertakings, refer to Note 15 to the parent company financial statements.
340 Parent company financial statements and notes 8 Subordinated liabilities 2017 2016 m m Dated loan capital 7,213 8,830 Undated loan capital 763 836 Preference shares 1 1,002 7,977 10,668 Certain preference shares issued by the company are classified as liabilities: these securities remain subject to the capital maintenance rules of the Companies Act 2006.
Capital 2017 2016 Dated loan capital treatment m m US$350 million 4.70% dated notes 2018 1 Ineligible 265 290 US$2250 million 6.13% dated notes 2022 1 Tier 2 1,665 1,826 US$750 million 6.80% dated notes 2042 callable quarterly 1,2 Ineligible 609 US$650 million 6.425% dated notes 2043 callable January 2034 1,2 Ineligible 479 525 400 million 5.65% dated notes 2047 callable June 2017 2 Ineligible 413 US$2000 million 6.00% dated notes 2023 Tier 2 1,470 1,612 US$1000 million 6.10% dated notes 2023 Tier 2 737 811 1,000 million 3.63% dated notes 2024 callable March 2019 Tier 2 907 875 US$2250 million 5.13% dated notes 2024 Tier 2 1,690 1,869 7,213 8,830 Notes: 1 On-lent to The Royal Bank of Scotland plc on a subordinated basis.
2 The call is on the underlying security in the partnership, rather than the internal issued debt.
Capital 2017 2016 Undated loan capital treatment m m US$106 million floating rate notes callable semi-annually Ineligible 79 87 US$762 million 7.648% notes callable September 2031 1 Ineligible 571 625 US$150 million 8.00% notes callable October 2093 Tier 2 113 124 763 836 Note: 1 The company can satisfy interest payment obligations by issuing sufficient ordinary shares to appointed Trustees to enable them, on selling these shares, to settle the interest payment.
Capital 2017 2016 Preference shares 1 treatment m m US$156 million 7.65% series F non-cumulative preference shares of US$ 0.01 callable Ineligible 127 US$242 million 7.25% series H non-cumulative preference shares of US$ 0.01 callable Ineligible 197 US$751 million 5.75% series L non-cumulative preference shares of US$ 0.01 callable Ineligible 609 200 million 7.387% series 1 non-cumulative convertible 0.01 preference shares callable, partial redemption Ineligible 14 US$ 1,000 million 9.118% series 1 non-cumulative convertible preference shares of US$ 0.01 callable, partial redemption Ineligible 54 0.5 million 11% and 0.4 million 5.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 not callable Ineligible 1 1 1 1,002 Note: 1 Further details of the contractual terms of the preference shares are given in Note 25 on the consolidated accounts.
9 Share capital Details of the companys share capital are set out in Note 25 on the consolidated accounts.
341 Parent company financial statements and notes 10 Net cash flow from operating activities 2017 2016 2015 m m m Operating profit loss before tax 1,471 5,416 1,805 Interest on subordinated liabilities 497 509 486 Increase decrease in income accruals 10 140 Profit on disposal of investments in subsidiaries 47 Write-back write-down of investment in subsidiaries 562 6,106 2,827 Gain on redemption of investment in Group undertakings 298 Other provisions charged net of releases 25 Elimination of foreign exchange differences 713 1,506 265 Other provisions utilised 773 Gain loss on redemption of own debt 239 Other non-cash items 562 1,237 282 Net cash inflow from trading activities 221 3,654 1,915 Decrease increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 1 3,031 8,359 4,274 Increase in securities 2 Increase decrease in other assets 64 65 192 Increase in derivative assets 1 210 156 38 Changes in operating assets 3,177 8,580 4,426 Decrease increase in deposits by banks and customers 2 944 37 295 Increase decrease in debt securities in issue 2,370 1,772 2,461 Increase decrease in other liabilities 61 36 202 Increase decrease in derivative liabilities 2 24 195 35 Changes in operating liabilities 1,511 2,040 2,923 Income taxes received paid 64 140 175 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 4,973 3,026 3,593 Notes: 1 Due from subsidiaries.
2 Due to subsidiaries 11 Interest received and paid 2017 2016 2015 m m m Interest received 999 1,066 1,103 Interest paid 777 743 744 222 323 359 342 Parent company financial statements and notes 12 Analysis of changes in financing during the year Share capital, share premium, paid-in equity and merger reserve Subordinated liabilities 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 m m m m m m At 1 January 41,994 39,488 34,701 10,668 9,366 10,708 Issue of ordinary shares 306 300 307 Issue of Additional Tier 1 capital notes 2,040 2,007 Redemption of paid-in equity 627 Redemption of subordinated liabilities 1,665 425 1,745 Net cash outflow inflow from financing 321 2,340 2,314 1,665 425 1,745 Transfer to retained earnings 25,789 Conversion of B shares 4,590 Ordinary shares issued in respect of employee share schemes 71 166 225 Redemption of equity preference shares 1 Transfer on impairment of investment in RBS plc 2,341 Redemption of debt preference shares 748 Other adjustments including foreign exchange 196 1,026 1,727 403 At 31 December 16,899 41,994 39,488 7,977 10,668 9,366 13 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 2015 m m m At 1 January - cash equivalents 1,195 3,006 1,105 Net cash outflow inflow 950 1,811 1,901 At 31 December 245 1,195 3,006 Comprises loans and advances to banks 14 Directors and key management remuneration Directors remuneration is disclosed in Note 38 on the consolidated accounts.
The directors had no other reportable related party transactions or balances with the company.
343 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings RBS legal entities and activities at 31 December 2017 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the companys related undertakings and the accounting treatment for each are listed below.
All undertakings are wholly-owned by the company or subsidiaries of the company and are consolidated by reason of contractual control Section 1162 2 CA 2006, unless otherwise indicated.
Group interest refers to ordinary shares of equal values and voting rights unless further analysis is provided in the notes.
Activities are classified in accordance with Annex I to the Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV and the definitions in Article 4 of the Capital Requirements Regulation.
All other requirements of the Capital Requirements country-by-country Reporting Regulations 2013 will be published on the RBS Groups website.
The following table details active related undertakings incorporated in the UK which are 100% owned by the Group and fully consolidated for accounting purposes.
Activity Reg Entity name 2 Acc 3 Address Notes 280 Bishopsgate Finance Ltd INV FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Adam & Company Group PLC BF FC 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Adam & Company Investment Management Ltd BF FC 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Adam & Company PLC CI FC 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Caledonian Sleepers Rail Leasing Ltd BF FC 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England Care Homes 1 Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Care Homes 2 Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Care Homes 3 Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Care Homes Holdings Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Churchill Management Ltd BF FC 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England Coutts & Company BF FC 440 Strand, London, WC2R 0QS, England Coutts Finance Company BF FC 440 Strand, London, WC2R 0QS, England Desertlands Entertainment Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Digi Ventures Ltd OTH FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Distant Planet Productions Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Esme Loans Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Euro Sales Finance Plc BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England G L Trains Ltd BF FC 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England Gatehouse Way Developments Ltd INV PC 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England Heartlands Central Ltd BF fide 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Helena Productions Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England KUC Public Houses Ltd BF fide 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England KUC Properties Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Land Options West Ltd INV fide 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Leckhampton Finance Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard & Ulster Ltd BF FC 11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast, BT1 5HD, Northern Ireland Lombard Business Finance Ltd BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Lombard Business Leasing Ltd BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Lombard Charterhire Ltd BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Lombard Corporate Finance 10 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Corporate Finance 11 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Corporate Finance 13 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Corporate Finance 14 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Corporate Finance 15 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Corporate Finance 6 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Corporate Finance 7 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Corporate Finance December 1 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Corporate Finance December 3 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Corporate Finance June 2 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Discount Ltd BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Lombard Finance Ltd BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Lombard Industrial Leasing Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Initial Leasing Ltd BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Lombard Lease Finance Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Leasing Company Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Lombard Leasing Contracts Ltd BF FC 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England For notes for this table refer to page 356 344 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued Activity Reg Entity name 2 Acc 3 Address Notes Lombard Lessors Ltd BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Lombard Maritime Ltd BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Lombard North Central Leasing Ltd BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Lombard North Central PLC BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Lombard Property Facilities Ltd BF FC 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England Lombard Technology Services Ltd BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Nanny McPhee Productions Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England National Westminster Bank Plc CI FC 135 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England National Westminster Home Loans Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England National Westminster Properties No.
1 Ltd SC FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England NatWest Capital Finance Ltd BF FC 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England NatWest Corporate Investments BF fide 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England NatWest Holdings Ltd INV FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England NatWest Machinery Leasing Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England NatWest Property Investments Ltd INV FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England NatWest Ventures Investments Ltd BF fide 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Nevis Derivatives No.
3 LLP BF FC 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England Northern Isles Ferries Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England P of A Productions Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Patalex II Productions Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Patalex III Productions Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Patalex IV Productions Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Patalex Productions Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Patalex V Productions Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Pittville Leasing Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Premier Audit Company Ltd BF fide 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Premier Place Finance Ltd INV FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Price Productions Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Priority Sites Investments Ltd BF fide 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Priority Sites Ltd INV FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Property Venture Partners Ltd INV FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland R. B.
Capital Leasing Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England R. B.
Equipment Leasing Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England R. B.
Leasing April Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England R. B.
Leasing December Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England R. B.
Leasing March Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England R. B.
Leasing September Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England R. B.
Leasing Company Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland R. B. Quadrangle Leasing Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England R. B. S. Special Investments Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RB Investments 2 Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RB Investments 3 Ltd OTH FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RBDC Administrator Ltd SC FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland RBOS UK Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RBS AA Holdings UK Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RBS Asset Finance Europe Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England RBS Asset Management ACD Ltd BF FC 440 Strand, London, WC2R 0QS, England RBS Asset Management Holdings BF FC 440 Strand, London, WC2R 0QS, England RBS Asset Management Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RBS Collective Investment Funds Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland RBS Equities Holdings UK Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RBS HG UK Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RBS Investment Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland RBS Investments Holdings UK Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RBS Invoice Finance Holdings Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England For notes for this table refer to page 356 345 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued Activity Reg Entity name 2 Acc 3 Address Notes RBS Invoice Finance Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RBS Management Services UK Ltd SC FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RBS Mezzanine Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland RBS Property Developments Ltd INV FC 36 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 2YB, Scotland RBS Property Ventures Investments Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland RBS Secured Funding LLP BF FC 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England RBS SME Investments Ltd BF FC 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England RBSG Collective Investments Holdings Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland RBSG International Holdings Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland RBSM Capital Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland RBSSAF 11 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England RBSSAF 12 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England RBSSAF 2 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England RBSSAF 25 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England RBSSAF 4 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England RBSSAF 6 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England RBSSAF 7 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England RBSSAF 8 Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Riossi Ltd BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England RoboScot Equity Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland RoboScot Ventures Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Royal Bank Investments Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Royal Bank Invoice Finance Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Royal Bank Leasing Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Royal Bank of Scotland Industrial Leasing Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Royal Bank Ventures Investments Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Royal Scot Leasing Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland RoyScot Financial Services Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RoyScot Trust plc BF FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Safetosign Ltd SC FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Sandford Leasing Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England SIG 1 Holdings Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland SIG Number 2 Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Springwell Street Developments No 1 Ltd INV FC 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Style Financial Services Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland The One Account Ltd BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Independent BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Financial Services Ltd The Royal Bank of Scotland Invoice Discounting BF FC 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Ltd The Royal Bank of Scotland plc CI FC 36 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 2YB, Scotland Theobald Film Productions LLP BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Total Capital Finance Ltd BF fide 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England Ulster Bank Commercial Services NI Ltd BF FC 11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast, BT1 5UB, Northern Ireland Ulster Bank Ltd CI FC 11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast, BT1 5UB, Northern Ireland Ulster Bank Pension Trustees Ltd TR FC 11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast, BT1 5UB, Northern Ireland Voyager Leasing Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England Walton Lake Developments Ltd INV fide 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England West Register Hotels Number 1 Ltd INV fide 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland West Register Hotels Number 3 Ltd INV fide 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland West Register Land Ltd INV FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland West Register Project Developments Ltd INV FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland West Register Property Investments Ltd BF fide 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland West Register Realisations Ltd INV fide 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland West Register Hotels Holdings Ltd BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Winchcombe Finance Ltd BF FC The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, GL50 1PX, England For notes for this table refer to page 356 346 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued The following table details active related undertakings incorporated outside the UK which are 100% owned by the Group and fully consolidated for accounting purposes.
Reg Country 1 Entity name Activity 2 Acc 3 Address Notes RBS Alternative Investments Australia BF FC Level 22, 88 Phillip Street, Sydney, NSW, 2000 Australia Pty Ltd Australia RBS Group Australia Pty Ltd BF FC Level 22, 88 Phillip Street, Sydney, NSW, 2000 RBS Holdings III Australia Pty Australia BF FC Level 22, 88 Phillip Street, Sydney, NSW, 2000 Ltd RBS Nominees Australia Pty Australia BF FC Level 22, 88 Phillip Street, Sydney, NSW, 2000 Ltd Trident Corporate Services Bahamas Ltd, Suite 200B, 2nd Floor, Bahamas CTB Ltd BF FC Centre of Commerce, One Bay Street, PO Box N-3944, Nassau, JE4 8ND Bermuda R. B.
Leasing BDA One Ltd BF FC 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM12 Clarendon House, Two Church Street, Suite 104, Reid Street, Bermuda KEB Investors, L. P. BF FC 5 Hamilton, HM 11 Brazil RBS Assessoria Ltda SC FC Rua Boa Vista, Sao Paulo, SP 01014-907 British Virgin Hudson Trust Company Limited, Third Floor, Geneva Place, Road Action Corporate Services Ltd BF FC Islands Town, Tortola, VG1110 British Virgin Hudson Trust Company Limited, Third Floor, Geneva Place, Road Minster Corporate Services Ltd BF FC Islands Town, Tortola, VG1110 Cayman Estera Trust Cayman Limited, PO Box 1350, Clifton House, 75 Coutts & Co Cayman Ltd BF FC Islands Fort Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1108 Cayman Coutts General Partner Maples Corporate Services Limited, P. O.
Box 309, 121 South BF FC Islands Cayman V Ltd Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104 Cayman Estera Trust Cayman Limited, PO Box 1350, Clifton House, 75 Redlion Investments Ltd OTH FC Islands Fort Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1108 Cayman Estera Trust Cayman Limited, PO Box 1350, Clifton House, 75 Redshield Holdings Ltd BF FC Islands Fort Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1108 Cayman Estera Trust Cayman Limited, PO Box 1350, Clifton House, 75 Royhaven Secretaries Ltd BF FC Islands Fort Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1108 Airside Properties ASP Denmark Denmark BF FC c o Visma Services, Lyskaer 3 CD, Herlev, 104 40 AS Denmark Airside Properties Denmark AS BF FC c o Visma Services, Lyskaer 3 CD, Herlev, 104 40 Denmark Kastrup Commuter K S BF FC c o Visma Services, Lyskaer 3 CD, Herlev, 104 40 Denmark Kastrup Hangar 5 K S BF FC c o Visma Services, Lyskaer 3 CD, Herlev, 104 40 Denmark Kastrup V & L Building K S BF FC c o Visma Services, Lyskaer 3 CD, Herlev, 104 40 c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Artul Kiinteistt Oy BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Fab Ekens Formanshagen 4 BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Forssa Liikekiinteistt Oy BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Kiinteist Oy Pennalan Johtotie 2 BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Espoon Entresse II BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Espoon Niittysillantie 5 BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Helsingin Mechelininkatu 1 BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Helsingin Osmontie 34 BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Helsingin Panuntie 11 BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Helsingin Panuntie 6 BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Iisalmen Kihlavirta BF FC Helsinki Finland Koy Jmsn Keskushovi BF FC Sdra esplanaden, 12 c o Nordisk Renting Oy, FI-00130, Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Kokkolan Kaarlenportti Fab BF FC Helsinki Koy Kouvolan Oikeus ja c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland BF FC Poliisitalo Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Lohjan Huonekalutalo BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Millennium BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Nummelan Portti BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Nuolialan pivkoti BF FC Helsinki For notes for this table refer to page 356 347 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued Reg Country 1 Entity name Activity 2 Acc 3 Address Notes c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Pivlisentie 1-6 BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Peltolantie 27 BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Raision Kihlakulma BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Ravattulan Kauppakeskus BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Tapiolan Louhi BF FC Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Koy Vapaalan Service-Center BF fide Helsinki c o Nordisk Renting OY, Etelesplanadi 12, Box 14044, FI-00130, Finland Nordisk Renting OY BF FC Helsinki RBS Deutschland Holdings Germany BF FC Junghofstrasse 22, Frankfurt am Main, D-60311 GmbH Gibraltar RBS Gibraltar Ltd CI FC 1 Corral Road, JE4 8ND Alsecure Life Insurance PCC Guernsey BF FC 3rd Floor, Dixcart House, Sir William Place, St Peter Port, GY1 1GX 5 Ltd Guernsey Alsecure US PCC Ltd BF fide 3rd Floor, Dixcart House, Sir William Place, St Peter Port, GY1 1GX 5 Lothbury Insurance Company PO Box 230, Heritage Hall, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, GY1 Guernsey BF FC Ltd 4JH Guernsey Morar ICC Insurance Ltd BF fide PO Box 384, The Albany, South Esplanade, St Peter Port, GY1 4NF RBS Employment Guernsey Guernsey SC FC 1 Le Marchant Street, St. Peter Port, GY1 1LF Ltd RBS Asia Financial Services Hong Kong BF FC 7 F, Lincoln House, Taikoo Place, 979 King's Road, Quarry Bay Ltd Hong Kong RBS Asia Futures Ltd BF FC 7 F, Lincoln House, Taikoo Place, 979 King's Road, Quarry Bay RBS Nominees Hong Kong Hong Kong BF FC 7 F, Lincoln House, Taikoo Place, 979 King's Road, Quarry Bay Ltd Hong Kong RBS Securities Japan Ltd BF FC Level 54, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queen's Road East RBS Prime Services India 414, Empire Complex South Wing, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower India BF FC Private Ltd Parel, Mumbai, 400 013 RBS Services India Private India SC FC DLF Cyber City, Tower C, DLF Phase III, Haryana, 122 002 Ltd Isle of Man Isle of Man Bank Ltd BF FC 2 Athol Street, Douglas, IM99 1AN Isle of Man Lombard Manx Leasing Ltd BF FC Royal Bank House, 2 Victoria Street, Douglas, IM1 2LN Isle of Man Lombard Manx Ltd BF FC Royal Bank House, 2 Victoria Street, Douglas, IM1 2LN Italy Fondo Sallustio BF fide Via Vittorio Alfieri 1, Conegliano, 31015 Jersey C. J. Fiduciaries Ltd BF FC Royal Bank House, 71 Bath Street, St Helier, JE4 8PJ Jersey Keep SPV Ltd BF fide La Motte Chambers, St. Helier, JE1 1BJ 5 Jersey Lombard Finance CI Ltd BF FC Royal Bank House, 71 Bath Street, St Helier, JE4 8PJ The Royal Bank of Scotland Jersey BF FC Royal Bank House, 71 Bath Street, St Helier, JE4 8PJ International Holdings Ltd The Royal Bank of Scotland Jersey CI FC Royal Bank House, 71 Bath Street, St Helier, JE4 8PJ International Ltd RBS European Investments Luxembourg BF FC 46 Avenue J. F. Kennedy, Luxembourg-Kirchberg, L-1855 5 SARL Mauritius RBS Asia Mauritius Ltd BF FC 10th Floor, Raffles Tower, 19 Cybercity, Ebene, M20 Netherlands AA Merchant Banking B. V. BF PC Gustav Mahlerlaan 350, Amsterdam, 1082 ME 5 Alternative Investment Fund Netherlands BF fide Gustav Mahlerlaan 350, Amsterdam, 1082 ME 5 B. V. Netherlands FI Equity Partners B. V. BF FC Gustav Mahlerlaan 350, Amsterdam, 1082 ME 5 National Westminster Netherlands BF FC 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland, UK International Holdings B. V. RBS AA Holdings Netherlands BF FC Gustav Mahlerlaan 350, Amsterdam, 1082 ME Netherlands B. V. Netherlands RBS Asia Holdings B. V. BF FC Gustav Mahlerlaan 350, Amsterdam, 1082 ME 5 Netherlands RBS Holdings N. V. BF FC Gustav Mahlerlaan 350, Amsterdam, 1082 ME 5 Netherlands RBS Hollandsche N. V. CI FC Gustav Mahlerlaan 350, Amsterdam, 1082 ME 5 RBS Netherlands Holdings Netherlands BF FC Gustav Mahlerlaan 350, Amsterdam, 1082 ME B. V. RBS Nominees Netherlands Netherlands BF FC Gustav Mahlerlaan 350, Amsterdam, 1082 ME 5 B. V. RBS Participations Netherlands BF FC Gustav Mahlerlaan 350, Amsterdam, 1082 ME 5 Netherlands B. V. The Royal Bank of Scotland Netherlands CI FC Gustav Mahlerlaan 350, Amsterdam, 1082 ME 5 N. V. c o Nordisk Renting AS, 9 Estaje, Klingenberggata 7, NO-0161, Norway BD Lagerhus AS BF FC Oslo For notes for this table refer to page 356 348 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued Reg Country 1 Entity name Activity 2 Acc 3 Address Notes Eiendomsselskapet Apteno Lar c o Nordisk Renting AS, 9 Estaje, Klingenberggata 7, NO-0161, Norway BF FC AS Oslo c o Nordisk Renting AS, 9 Estaje, Klingenberggata 7, NO-0161, Norway Hatros 1 AS BF FC Oslo c o Nordisk Renting AS, 9 Estaje, Klingenberggata 7, NO-0161, Norway Nordisk Renting AS BF FC Oslo c o Nordisk Renting AS, 9 Estaje, Klingenberggata 7, NO-0161, Norway Ringdalveien 20 AS BF FC Oslo Poland RBS Bank Polska S. A. CI FC Wisniowy Business Park, ul 1-go Sierpnia 8a, Warsaw 02-134 RBS Polish Financial Advisory Poland BF FC Wisniowy Business Park, ul 1-go Sierpnia 8a, Warsaw 02-134 Services sp.
z o. o. RoI Easycash Ireland Ltd BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 First Active Insurances RoI BF fide Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Services Ltd First Active Investments No.
4 RoI BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Ltd RoI First Active Ltd BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 RoI Hume Street Nominees Ltd BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Lombard Ireland Group RoI BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Holdings Unlimited Company RoI Lombard Ireland Ltd BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 RoI Norgay Property Ltd BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 RBS Asset Management RoI BF FC Guild House, Guild Street, IFSC, D01 K2C5, Dublin 1 Dublin Ltd RoI RBS Investments Ireland Ltd BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 5 RoI RBS Nominees Ireland Ltd BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 5 The RBS Group Ireland RoI Retirement Savings Trustee TR FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Ltd Ulster Bank Ireland Holdings RoI INV FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Unlimited Company Ulster Bank Commercial RoI BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Services Ltd Ulster Bank Dublin Trust RoI TR fide Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Company Unlimited Company Ulster Bank Holdings ROI RoI BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Ltd Ulster Bank Ireland RoI CI FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Designated Activity Company Ulster Bank Pension Trustees RoI TR FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 RI Ltd RoI Walter Property Ltd BF FC Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 The Royal Bank of Scotland Singapore Asia Merchant Bank BF FC One Raffles Quay, #23-10 South Tower, Singapore, 48583 Singapore Ltd Sweden Airside Properties AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Arkivborgen KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Backsmedjan KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Bil Fastigheter i Sverige AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Bilfastighet i Tby AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Braheberget KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Brdmagasinet KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Eurohill 4 KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Fastighet Kallebck 2:4 i Sweden BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Gteborg AB Fastighets AB Fljten i Sweden BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Norrkping Fastighets AB Sweden BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Hammarbyvagnen Sweden Fastighets AB Kabisten 1 BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Fastighets AB Stockmakaren BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Fastighets AB Xalam BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Fastighets Aktiebolaget Sweden BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sambiblioteket Fastighetsbolaget Holma i Sweden BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Hr AB Sweden Forskningshjden KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Frvaltningsbolaget Dalkyrkan Sweden BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm KB For notes for this table refer to page 356 349 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued Reg Country 1 Entity name Activity 2 Acc 3 Address Notes Frvaltningsbolaget Predio 3 Sweden BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm KB Sweden Gredelinen KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Grinnhagen KB BF PC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Horrsta 4:38 KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden IR Fastighets AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden IR IndustriRenting AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Kallebck Institutfastigheter Sweden BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm AB Sweden KB Eurohill BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden KB IR Gamlestaden BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden KB Lagermannen BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden KB Likriktaren BF fide c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Lkten 1 KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden LerumsKrysset KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Limstagrden KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Mjlgen KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Mons AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Mons Investment AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Nordisk Renting AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Nordisk Renting Kapital AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Nordisk Specialinvest AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Nordiska Strategifastigheter Sweden BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Holding AB Sweden Pyrrhula 6,7 AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden SFK Kommunfastigheter AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Sjklockan KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Skinnarngen KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Solbnken KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Strand European Holdings AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Svenskt Fastighetskapital AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Svenskt Energikapital AB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Svenskt Fastighetskapital Sweden BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Holding AB Sweden Tingsbrogrden KB BF FC c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Sweden Tygverkstaden 1 KB BF fide c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Stockholm Switzerland Alcover A. G. BF FC Baarerstrasse 98, 6302 Zug, CH-6300 5 Switzerland Coutts & Co Ltd BF FC Lerchenstrasse 18, Zurich, CH 8022 Coutts & Co Trustees Suisse Switzerland BF FC c o Regus Rue du Rhne Srl, Geneva, CH-1204 S. A. RBS Services Switzerland Switzerland SC FC Lerchenstrasse 18, Zurich, CH 8022 Ltd USA Candlelight Acquisition LLC BF FC 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 Financial Asset Securities USA BF PC 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 Corp. Greenwich Capital USA BF PC 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 Derivatives, Inc. NatWest Group Holdings USA BF FC 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 Corporation Random Properties USA INV PC 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 Acquisition Corp. III Random Properties USA INV fide 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 Acquisition Corp. IV USA RBS Acceptance Inc. CI FC 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 USA RBS Americas Property Corp. SC FC 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 USA RBS Commercial Funding Inc. BF FC 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 USA RBS Equity Corporation BF FC 340 Madison Avenue, New York, 10173 USA RBS Financial Products Inc. BF FC 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 USA RBS Holdings USA Inc. BF FC 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 USA RBS Securities Inc. BF FC 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19808 Corporation Trust Centre, 1209 Orange St, Wilmington, Delaware, USA RBS WCS Holding Company BF FC 5 fide 19808 For notes for this table refer to page 356 350 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued The following table details active related undertakings incorporated in the UK where the Group ownership is less than 100%.
Reg Group Accounting Entity name Acc 3 Int % Address Notes Activity 2 Treatment 4 Union Plaza 6th Floor, 1 Union Wynd, Aberdeen, Aspire Oil Services Ltd BF EAA FC 27 AB10 1DQ, Scotland St John's House, 5 South Parade, Summertown, Oxford, Ballymore London Arena Ltd BF IA fide 45 6 Oxfordshire, OX2 7JL, England BGF Group Ltd BF EAA PC 24 13-15 York Buildings, London, WC2N 6JU, England 27-29 Lumley Avenue, Skegness, Lincolnshire, PE25 2AT, CFN Packaging Group Ltd BF IA fide 25 England 140 Staniforth Road, Darnall, Sheffield, South Yorkshire, Cloud Electronics Holdings Ltd BF IA PC 20 S9 3HF, England 4 Biggar Road Industrial Estate, Cleland, Motherwell, Coneworx Ltd BF IA fide 40 ML1 5PB, Scotland Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, GWNW City Developments Ltd BF EAJV FC 50 Buckinghamshire, HP12 3NR, England Sycamore Road, Eastwood Trading Estate, Rotherham, Hamsard 3120 Ltd BF IA FC 40 7 South Yorkshire, S65 1EN, England Higher Broughton GP Ltd BF EAA PC 51 Floor 3, 1 St Ann Street, Manchester, M2 7LR, England Cornwall Buildings, 45-51 Newhall Street, Birmingham, Higher Broughton Partnership LP BF EAA FC 51 West Midlands, B3 3QR, England Isobel AssetCo Ltd BF FC FC 75 40 Berkeley Square, London, W1J 5AL, England Isobel EquityCo Ltd BF FC FC 75 40 Berkeley Square, London, W1J 5AL, England Isobel Finance HoldCo No2 Ltd BF FC FC 0 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England Isobel HoldCo Ltd BF FC FC 75 40 Berkeley Square, London, W1J 5AL, England Isobel Intermediate HoldCo Ltd BF FC fide 75 40 Berkeley Square, London, W1J 5AL, England Isobel Loan Capital Ltd BF FC FC 75 40 Berkeley Square, London, W1J 5AL, England Isobel Mezzanine Borrower Ltd BF FC FC 75 40 Berkeley Square, London, W1J 5AL, England Jaguar Cars Finance Ltd BF FC FC 50 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England JCB Finance Leasing Ltd BF FC FC 75 The Mill, High Street, Rocester, ST14 5JW, England JCB Finance Ltd BF FC FC 75 The Mill, High Street, Rocester, ST14 5JW, England Land Options East Ltd BF EAJV FC 50 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Landpower Leasing Ltd BF FC FC 75 The Mill, High Street, Rocester, ST14 5JW, England London Rail Leasing Ltd BF EAJV PC 50 99 Queen Victoria Street, London, EC4V 4EH, England Lyalvale Express Ltd, Express Estate, Fisherwick, Nr Lyalvale Property Ltd INV IA FC 31 Whittington, Lichfield, WS13 8XA, England Abercorn House, 79 Renfrew Road, Paisley, Renfrewshire, Pollokshields Developments Ltd INV IA fide 49 PA3 4DA, Scotland Terminal House, Station Approach, Shepperton, Middlesex, Prestige Walker Ltd OTH IA FC 30 TW17 8AS, England RBS Covered Bonds LM Ltd BF IA FC 20 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England RBS Covered Bonds LLP BF FC fide 73 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8BP, England c o SFM Corporate Services Ltd, 35 Great St Helens, RBS Secured Funding LM Ltd BF FC FC 20 8 London, EC3A 6AP, England RBS Sempra Commodities LLP BF FC FC 51 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland Howe Moss Drive, Kirkhill Industrial Estate, Dyce, Uniconn Ltd OTH IA FC 30 Aberdeen, AB21 0GL, Scotland Wealdland Ltd OTH EAA FC 29 10 Norwich Street, London, EC4A 1BD, England The following table details active related undertakings incorporated outside the UK where the Group ownership is less than 100%.
Activity Accounting Reg Group Entity name 2 treatment 4 Acc 3 Int % Address Notes Country 1 Boundary Hall, Cricket Square, 171 Elgin Cayman CITIC Capital China BF IA FC 33 Avenue, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1- Islands Mezzanine Fund Ltd 1104 Boundary Hall, Cricket Square, 171 Elgin Cayman Lunar Funding VIII Ltd BF FC FC 0 Avenue, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1- Islands 1104 Floor 9th, SOHO Century Plaza, 1501 Century China Galaxy Futures Company Ltd BF EAA FC 17 Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai Cyprus Pharos Estates Ltd OTH EAA fide 49 24 Demostheni Severi, 1st Floor, Nicosia, 1080 c o Gentoo Fund Services Ltd, Mill Court, La Guernsey MSE Holdings Ltd INV IA FC 37 7 Charrotiere, St Peter Port, GY1 3GG Italy Eris Finance S. R. L. BF IA FC 45 Via Vittorio Alfieri 1, Conegliano, 31015 Italy Maja Finance S. R. L. BF FC fide 0 Via Vittorio Alfieri 1, Conegliano, 31015 Whiteley Chambers, Don Street, St Helier, JE4 Jersey Spring Allies Jersey Ltd BF IA FC 49 9WG For notes for this table refer to page 356 351 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued Activity Accounting Reg Group Entity name 2 treatment 4 Acc 3 Int % Address Notes Country 1 Nightingale Securities 2017-1 Jersey BF FC fide 0 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE4 9WG Ltd Solar Energy Capital Europe 46 Avenue J. F. Kennedy, LuxembourgLuxembourg BF EAJV FC 33 SARL Kirchberg, L-1855 German Public Sector fide entree 99 -197, 1101HE, Amsterdam Netherlands BF EAJV FC 50 Finance B. V. Zuidoost Netherlands Herge Holding B. V. BF IA FC 63 Verlengde Poolseweg 16, 4818 CL, Breda 9 Herikerbergweg 238, Luna Arena, 1101 CM, Netherlands RFS Holdings B. V. BF FC FC 98 Amsterdam Zuidoost Tulip Asset Purchase Netherlands BF FC FC 0 Claude Debussylaan 24, Amsterdam, 1082 MD Company B. V. Winiowy Management sp.
z Poland SC EAA FC 25 Ilzecka 26 Street, Warsaw, 02-135 o. o. Celtic Residential Irish RoI Mortgage Securitisation No BF FC fide 0 5 Harbourmaster Place, Dublin 1 14 DAC Celtic Residential Irish RoI Mortgage Securitisation No BF FC FC 0 5 Harbourmaster Place, Dublin 1 15 DAC Cesium Structured Funding RoI BF FC FC 0 5 Harbourmaster Place, Dublin 1 Ltd The Drive4Growth Company c o Denis Crowley & Co, Chartered Accountants, RoI OTH IA FC 20 Ltd Unit 6 Riverside Grove, Riverstick, Cork Saudi Arabia Alawwal Bank CI EAA FC 40 Al-Dhabab Street, Riyadh, 11431 Frvaltningsbolaget c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Sweden BF FC FC 51 Klverbacken Skola KB Stockholm c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Sweden Optimus KB BF FC PC 51 Stockholm c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Sweden Stora Kvarnen KB BF FC FC 51 Stockholm 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Delaware, fide USA Sempra Energy Trading LLC BF FC fide 51 19808 Thames Asset Global USA BF FC fide 0 114 West 47th Street, New York, 10036 Securitization No.
The following table details active related undertakings which are 100% owned by the Group but are not consolidated for accounting purposes 8.
Accounting Reg Country 1 Entity name Activity 2 treatment 4 Acc 3 Address Notes RBS International Employees' Jersey BF NC FC PO Box 6, 23-25 Broad Street, St Helier, JE4 8ND Pension Trustees Ltd RBS Retirement And Death PO Box 236, First Island House, Peter Street, St Helier, Jersey BF NC FC 11 Provision Company Ltd JE4 8SG USA RBS Capital LP B BF NC fide 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19801 12 USA RBS Capital LP II BF NC fide 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, fide 19801 12 100, Suite 102, White Clay Center, Newark, New Castle USA RBS Capital Trust B BF NC fide 12 County, Delaware, fide 19711 100, Suite 102, White Clay Center, Newark, New Castle USA RBS Capital Trust II BF NC fide 12 County, Delaware, fide 19711 2711 Centerville, Road Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, USA RBSG Capital Corporation BF NC FC 12 fide 19808 Bellevue Parkway, Suite 210, Wilmington, Delaware, fide USA West Granite Homes Inc. INV NC FC 11 19809 The following tables detail related undertakings that are not active.
Actively being dissolved Reg Group Accounting Country 1 Entity name treatment 4 Acc 3 Int % Address Notes Maples Corporate Services Limited, P. O.
Box 309, Cayman Equator Investments Cayman FC FC 100 121 South Church Street, George Town, Grand Islands Ltd Cayman, KY1-1104 The Royal Bank of Scotland Level 25F, Azia Center, 1233 Lu Jia Zui Ring Road, China FC FC 98 5 China Co. Ltd Shanghai, 200120 West Register Prime Holding Germany FC FC 100 Emil-Riedl-Weg 6, Pullach i. Isartal, D-82049 GmbH i. L. Arran Cards Loan Note Issuer Jersey FC fide 0 44 Esplanade, St Helier, JE49WG No.
1 Ltd Arran Cards Loan Note Issuer Jersey FC FC 0 47 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 0BD No.
2 Ltd Foundation Commercial Property Royal Bank House, 71 Bath Street, St Helier, JE4 Jersey EAJV FC 50 Ltd 8PJ For notes for this table refer to page 356 352 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued Reg Group Accounting Country 1 Entity name treatment 4 Acc 3 Int % Address Notes Royal Bank House, 71 Bath Street, St Helier, JE4 Jersey Mulcaster Street Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 8PJ The Royal Bank of Scotland Level 9, Menara Maxis, Kuala Lumpur City Centre, Malaysia FC FC 100 BERHAD Kuala Lumpur, 50088 Netherlands Exfin Capital B. V. FC FC 0 Amsteldijk 166, Amsterdam, 1082 MD Netherlands RBSG Holdings N. V. FC FC 100 Kaya Flambayan 9, Curacao, Netherlands Antilles Antilles Celtic Residential Irish Mortgage RoI FC FC 0 Riverside One, Sir John Rogersons Quay, Dublin 2 Securitisation No 09 plc Celtic Residential Irish Mortgage RoI FC FC 0 5 Harbourmaster Place, Dublin 1 Securitisation No 10 plc Celtic Residential Irish Mortgage RoI FC FC 0 5 Harbourmaster Place, Dublin 1 Securitisation No 11 plc Celtic Residential Irish Mortgage RoI FC fide 0 5 Harbourmaster Place, Dublin 1 Securitisation No 12 DAC Celtic Residential Irish Mortgage RoI FC FC 0 5 Harbourmaster Place, Dublin 1 Securitisation No 16 DAC RoI First Active Holdings Ltd FC FC 100 Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 RoI First Active Investments No.
3 Ltd FC FC 100 Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 RoI First Active Treasury Ltd FC FC 100 Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 RoI Marnin Ltd NC fide 98 Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 RoI Qulpic Ltd FC FC 67 70 Sir John Rogerson's Quay, Dublin 2 RBS Holdings Ireland Unlimited RoI FC FC 98 Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 5 Company First Floor, 10 11 Exchange Place, International RoI RBS Trustees Ireland Ltd FC FC 98 Financial Services Centre, Dublin 1 The Royal Bank of Scotland RoI FC FC 100 24 26 City Quay, Dublin 2 Finance Ireland RoI UB SIG ROI Ltd FC fide 100 Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 RoI Ulster Bank Group Treasury Ltd FC FC 100 Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Ulster Bank Wealth Unlimited RoI FC FC 100 Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 Company RoI Utras Unlimited Company FC FC 98 Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 5 RoI West Register RoI Property Ltd FC fide 100 Ulster Bank Group Centre, George's Quay, Dublin 2 RoI Zrko Ltd FC fide 67 70 Sir John Rogerson's Quay, Dublin 2 UK Arran Cards Funding plc FC FC 0 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England Arran Residential Mortgages UK FC FC 0 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England Funding 2010-1 plc Arran Residential Mortgages UK FC fide 0 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England Funding 2011-1 plc Arran Residential Mortgages UK FC fide 0 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England Funding 2011-2 plc UK Attlee Personal Loans Plc FC FC 0 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England Bevan Loan Interest Purchaser UK FC FC 0 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England plc Ledingham Chalmers, Johnstone House, 52-54 Rose UK Cala Campus Ltd EAJV fide 50 Street, Aberdeen, AB10 1HA, Scotland UK CNW Group Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK Dixon Motors Developments Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK Emperor Holdings Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England Farming and Agricultural Finance UK FC FC 100 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Ltd Funding For Equity Release Wilmington Trust SP Services London Ltd, Third UK Securitisation Transaction No.
4 FC FC 0 Floor, 1 Kings Arms Yard, London, EC2R 7AF, Ltd England Funding For Equity Release Wilmington Trust SP Services London Ltd, Third UK Securitisation Transaction No.
5 FC fide 0 Floor, 1 Kings Arms Yard, London, EC2R 7AF, Ltd England UK Greenock Funding No 5 Plc FC fide 0 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England UK Greenwich NatWest Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK KUC Holdings Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland Quartermile Two, 2 Lister Square, Edinburgh, UK Latam Directors Ltd NC FC 100 Midlothian, EH3 9GL, Scotland Lombard Corporate Finance 3 UK FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England Ltd UK Lombard Venture Finance Ltd FC FC 100 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England UK Mons UK Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK NatWest Finance Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK NatWest Nominees Ltd FC fide 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England For notes for this table refer to page 356 353 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued Reg Group Accounting Country 1 Entity name treatment 4 Acc 3 Int % Address Notes UK NatWest HMHP Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK Nevis Derivatives No.
2 LLP FC FC 100 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England UK Nevis Derivatives No.
1 LLP FC FC 100 35 Great St Helen's, London, EC3A 6AP, England UK Northants Developments Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK Property Ventures B&M Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK Pulley's Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK Raingrove Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK RBDC Investments Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK RBEF Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK RBS Argonaut Ltd FC PC 100 Scotland UK RBS Corporate Finance Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RBS Corporate Investments UK UK FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Ltd UK RBS Development UK Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK RBS Equities UK Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK RBS Equity Products UK Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK RBS Finance UK Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK RBS Group Investments UK Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK RBS GTS Services Ltd FC FC 98 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England 5 UK RBS Health Trustee UK Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England RBS International Corporate UK FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Holdings UK Ltd RBS International Investment UK FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Holdings UK Ltd UK RBS Investments UK Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK RBS Lease Finance UK Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK RBS Life Holdings Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland UK RBS Overseas UK Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Suite 1, 3rd Floor 11-12 St James's Square, London, UK RBS Sempra Products Ltd FC FC 51 SW1Y 4LB, England RBS Special Opportunities UK FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England General Partner England Ltd RBS Special Opportunities 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK FC FC 100 General Partner Scotland II Ltd Scotland RBS Special Opportunities 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK FC FC 100 General Partner Scotland Ltd Scotland RBS Specialised Property UK FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Investments Ltd 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK RoboScot DevCap Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK RoboScot 64 Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland Royal Bank Development Capital 100 UK FC FC 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England Ltd Royal Bank Project Investments UK FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Ltd 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK Royal Bank Ventures Ltd FC fide 100 Scotland UK RoyScot Ltd FC FC 100 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England UK STAR 1 Special Partner Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK The National Bank Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK Thrapston Triangle Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England West Register Hotels Number 2 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK FC fide 100 Ltd Scotland West Register Northern Ireland 11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast, BT1 5UB, UK FC fide 100 Property Ltd Northern Ireland West Register Residential UK FC fide 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England Property Investments Ltd Williams & Glyn's Trust Company UK FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England Ltd WR NI Property Investments 11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast, BT1 5UB, UK FC fide 100 Ltd Northern Ireland WR NI Property Realisations 11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast, BT1 5UB, UK FC fide 100 Ltd Northern Ireland Isle of Man Coutts & Co Manx Ltd FC FC 100 23 25 Broad Street, St Helier, JE4 8ND, Jersey For notes for this table refer to page 356 354 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued Dormant Accounting Reg Group Country 1 Entity name treatment 4 Acc 3 int % Address c o Adv Jan-Erik Svensson, HC Andersens Boulevard Denmark Nordisk Renting A S FC FC 100 12, Kopenhaum V, 1553 7 F, Lincoln House, Taikoo Place, 979 King's Road, Hong Kong Atlas Nominees Ltd FC fide 100 Quarry Bay National Westminster Bank Nominees Jersey FC FC 100 16 Library Place, St. Helier, JE4 8ND Jersey Ltd Jersey RBS Cards Securitisation Funding Ltd FC fide 100 Royal Bank House, 71 Bath Street, St Helier, JE4 8PJ Nordisk Renting Facilities Management c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Sweden FC FC 100 AB Stockholm c o Nordisk Renting AB, Box 14044, SE-104 40, Sweden Nordisk Renting HB FC FC 100 Stockholm The Shards, 32 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 UK AD Aggregator Platform Ltd FC FC 100 9SG, England UK Adam & Company Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, Scotland UK Blydenstein Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK British Overseas Bank Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK Buchanan Holdings Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK Coutts Group FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK Dixon Vehicle Sales Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK Dunfly Trustee Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK FIT Nominee 2 Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK FIT Nominee Ltd FC PC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK Freehold Managers Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK Glyns Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK HPUT A Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England UK HPUT B Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England 11-16 Donegall Square East, Belfast, BT1 5UB, UK JCB Finance Pension Ltd FC FC 88 Northern Ireland Lee House, Baird Road, Enfield, Middlesex, EN1 1SJ, UK Lombard Bank FC FC 100 England UK Marigold Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK N. C. Head Office Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland UK National Westminster Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK NatWest Aerospace Trust Company Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK NatWest FIS Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK NatWest Invoice Finance Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK NatWest PEP Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK NatWest Security Trustee Company Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK Nextlinks Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England Project & Export Finance Nominees UK FC fide 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England Ltd 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK R. B. S. Property Greenock Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland UK RB Investments 5 Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK RBOS Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK RBOS Trustees Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK RBS CIF Trustee Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK RBS Investment Executive Ltd NC fide 100 Scotland UK RBS Pension Trustee Ltd NC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK RBS Retirement Savings Trustee Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK RBS Secretarial Services Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK RBS Trustees Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland RBSG Collective Investments Nominees 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK FC FC 100 Ltd Scotland UK RoyScot Leasing Ltd FC FC 100 280 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4RB, England UK Sixty Seven Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England UK Strand Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 440 Strand, London, WC2R 0QS, England UK Syndicate Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England For notes for this table refer to page 356 355 Parent company financial statements and notes 15 Related undertakings continued Accounting Reg Group Country 1 Entity name treatment 4 Acc 3 int % Address 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK TDS Nominee Company Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland 24 25 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 1AF, UK The Royal Bank of Scotland 1727 Ltd FC FC 100 Scotland UK W. G. T. C. Nominees Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK Williams & Glyn Ltd FC FC 100 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, England UK Williams & Glyn's Bank Ltd FC FC 100 1 Princes Street, London, EC2R 8PB, England In Administration Reg Group Accounting Country 1 Entity name Activity 2 treatment 4 Acc 3 int % Address Adam & Company Second FRP Advisory LLP, Apex 3, 95 Haymarket Terrace, UK BF IA PC 50 General Partner Ltd Edinburgh, EH12 5HD, Scotland Notes: 1 Country: UK United Kingdom USA United States of America RoI Republic of Ireland 2 Activity: BF - Banking and Financial institution CI - Credit institution INV - Investment shares or property holding company SC - Service company TR - Trustee OTH Other 3 Regulatory Accounting treatment: fide - Deconsolidated for non financial or insurance undertakings FC - Full consolidation PC - Pro-rata consolidation based on percentage equity held by RBSG 4 Accounting treatment: EAA - Equity accounting - Associate EAJV - Equity accounting - Joint Venture FC - Fully consolidated IA - Investment accounting NC - Not consolidated 5 Wholly-owned subsidiary of RFS Holdings B. V. which is 98% owned by the Group.
6 The Group is interested in 25% of the voting rights 7 The Group is interested in none of the voting rights 8 Related undertaking consolidated because the Group controls the company by virtue of contractual agreements 9 By contractual agreement the Group holds 50% of the voting rights.
10 Related undertaking not consolidated as it is not controlled by the Group.
11 Related undertaking owned for the benefit of Group pension schemes.
12 Related undertaking for the benefit of trust preferred security holders.
Group overseas branches The companys related undertakings have branches in the following countries.
Subsidiary Geographic location of branches Hong Kong Coutts & Co Ltd Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Jersey, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden National Westminster Bank Plc RBS Securities Japan Ltd Japan Gibraltar, Guernsey, Isle of Man, Luxembourg, UK The Royal Bank of Scotland International Ltd Hong Kong, UK The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, RoI, Jersey, Poland, Singapore, Turkey, United Arab Emirates UK Ulster Bank Ireland DAC 356
