179 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION USEFUL HISTORICAL INFORMATION ShareGift ShareGift is a charity registered under the name The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, Share history of the Company registered charity number 1052686 which specialises in accepting donations of On 20 August 2007, the ordinary share capital was consolidated on the small numbers of shares which are uneconomic to sell on their own.
Shares which basis of 12 new ordinary shares of 271 12 pence for every 13 ordinary have been donated to ShareGift are aggregated and sold when practicable, with shares of 25pence held on the 17 August 2007.
A special dividend of the proceeds passed on to a wide range of UK charities.
ShareGift can also help 53 pence per share was paid in connection with the consolidation on with larger donations of shares.
Further details about ShareGift can be obtained 31 August 2007. from its website at www.
org or by writing to ShareGift at 17 Carlton House On 4 March 2009, a rights issue was announced on the basis of 12 new Terrace, London, SW1Y 5AH, telephone: 44 0 207 930 3737. ordinary shares for every existing share held on 17 March 2009 at a Dividends subscription price of 10 pence per share.
Each 271 12 pence ordinary share A requirement of the REIT regime is that a REIT must distribute to shareholders in issue was sub-divided and re-classified into one ordinary share of one by way of dividend at least 90 per cent of its profits from its tax-exempt UK pence each and one deferred share of 261 12 pence each.
The deferred property rental business calculated under UK tax principles after the deduction of shares were created for technical reasons in order to maintain the interest and capital allowances and excluding chargeable gains.
Such distributions aggregate nominal value of the Companys share capital upon sub-division are referred to as Property Income Distributions, or PIDs.
Any further distributions of its ordinary shares.
The very limited rights attached to the deferred may be paid as ordinary dividends, which are derived from profits earned by its shares rendered them effectively valueless and they were cancelled on UK, non-REIT taxable business, as well as its overseas operations.
SCRIP Dividend In relation to the acquisition of Brixton plc, on 24 August 2009, SEGRO plc Shareholders approved the re-introduction of a scrip dividend option SCRIP undertook a share consolidation, open offer and private placing.
On 31 July in respect of cash dividends including those treated as Property Income 2009, every 10 ordinary shares of one pence each were consolidated into Distributions at the 2015 AGM.
This authority will expire at the 2018 AGM.
one ordinary share of 10 pence each and, 0.10484 open offer shares of 10 pence each were offered to every shareholder of SEGRO plc who, on The Board has decided to recommend the renewal of the Directors authority to 13 July 2009, held 10 ordinary shares of one pence each.
The acquisition of offer a SCRIP which, if approved by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM will Brixton was conducted by a scheme of arrangement.
Brixton shareholders allow shareholders who elect to receive the SCRIP, to take the final dividend in were offered 0.175 consideration shares of 10 pence each in SEGRO plc shares rather than cash.
If shareholders approve the re-introduction of the SCRIP, foreach Brixton share held.
it will run from three years ending on the earlier of 18 April 2021 and the three years beginning of the third AGM of the Company following 19 April 2018.
On 2 September 2016, the Company placed 74,770,950 new ordinary shares at a price of 435 pence by way of an equity placing.
The shares were Details of the proposed SCRIP, together with information on how shareholders issued and admitted to the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority can elect to receive it subject to shareholder approval, will be provided in the and to trading on the main market for listed securities of the London Stock Notice of Meeting and full terms and conditions of the SCRIP will be set out in Exchange plc on 6 September 2016.
Total gross proceeds of approximately the Scrip Dividend Scheme Booklet, which will be available on the Companys 325m were raised from the placing.
On 10 March 2017, a Rights Issue was announced on the basis of one new Withholding tax PIDs share for every five shares held on 8 March 2017 at a subscription price SEGRO is required to withhold tax at source from its PIDs at the basic tax rate of 345 pence per share.
166,033,133 new ordinary shares were issued 20 per cent.
UK shareholders need take no immediate action unless they and admitted to the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority and qualify for exemption as described below and will receive with each dividend to trading on the main market for listed securities of the London Stock payment a tax deduction certificate stating the amount of tax deducted.
Total gross proceedings of approximately UK shareholders who fall into one of the classes of shareholder able to claim an 573m were raised from the Rights Issue.
exemption from withholding tax may be able to receive a gross PID payment Shareholder enquiries if they have submitted a valid relevant Exemption Declaration form, either as If you have any questions about your shareholding or if you require further a beneficial owner of the shares, or as an intermediary if the shares are not guidance e. g. to notify a change of address please contact our Registrar, registered in the name of the beneficial owner, to Equiniti.
The Exemption Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex Declaration form is available at www.
com under Investors Shareholder BN99 6DA, telephone 44 0 371 384 2186.
Alternatively, you can Information REIT.
A valid declaration form, once submitted, will continue to check your shareholding and access dividend information by registering apply to future payments of PIDs until rescinded, and so it is a shareholders atwww.
co. uk, or you can securely send queries via the website responsibility to notify SEGRO if their circumstances change and they are no byvisiting https: help.
longer able to claim an exemption from withholding tax.
Electronic communications Shareholders resident outside the UK may be able to claim a full or partial refund of withholding tax either as an individual or as a company from Shareholders have the opportunity to elect to receive shareholder HMRC, subject to the terms of a double tax treaty, if any, between the UK communications electronically, e. g. Annual Reports, Notice of the Annual andthe country in which the shareholder is resident.
General Meeting and Proxy Forms.
You can elect to receive email notifications of shareholder communications by registering at www.
co. uk Ordinary dividends where you can also set up a bank mandate to receive dividends directly Ordinary, non-PID dividends will be treated in exactly the same way by toyour bank account and to submit proxy votes for shareholder meetings.
shareholders as ordinary dividends paid before the Company became a REIT.
Receiving the Companys communications electronically allows the Company From 6 April 2016 the notional 10 per cent tax credit has been abolished and to communicate with its shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, replaced with a tax free dividend allowance, which will apply to the ordinary, costeffective and timely manner.
non-PID dividends received by UK resident shareholders who are subject to AGM UK income tax.
This allowance does not apply to the PID element of dividends.
Further information is available from HMRC at www.
uk government The 2018 AGM will be held on 19 April 2018 at RSA House, 8 John Adam publications .
