Shareholder information Shareholder information Page Fourth interim dividend for 2017 262 Interim dividends for 2018 262 2017 Annual General Meeting 262 Earnings Releases and Interim Results 262 Shareholder enquiries and communications 263 Stock symbols 264 Investor relations 264 Where more information about HSBC is available 264 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 266 Certain defined terms 267 Abbreviations 268 A glossary of terms used in this Annual Report and Accounts can be found in the Investor Relations section of www.
Fourth interim dividend for 2017 The Directors have declared a fourth interim dividend for 2017 of $0.21 per ordinary share.
Information on the scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 7March2018.
The timetable for the dividend is: Footnote Announcement 20 February 2018 Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda and American Depositary Shares ADS quoted ex-dividend 22 February 2018 in New York 1 Record date London, Hong Kong, New York, Paris, Bermuda 23 February 2018 Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2017 and or Strategic Report 2017 and dividend documentation 7 March 2018 Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election, Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations of standing 22 March 2018 instructions for scrip dividends Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars 26 March 2018 Payment date: dividend warrants, new share certificates or transaction advices and notional tax vouchers mailed and shares credited 6 April 2018 to stock accounts in CREST 1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on this date.
Interim dividends for 2018 The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on ordinary shares.
Under this policy it is intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend.
It is envisaged that the first interim dividend in respect of 2018 will be $0.10 per ordinary share.
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, pounds sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Boards determination that a scrip dividend is to be offered in respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
2017 Annual General Meeting All resolutions considered at the 2017 Annual General Meeting held at 11.00am on 28 April 2017 at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London SW1P 3EE were passed on a poll.
Earnings Releases and Interim Results Earnings Releases are expected to be issued on or around 4 May 2018 and 29 October 2018.
The interim results for the six months to 30June 2018 are expected to be issued on 6 August 2018.
262 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Shareholder enquiries and communications Enquiries Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register for example, transfers of shares, changes of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below.
The Registrars offer an online facility, Investor Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically.
Principal Register: Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register: Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Hong Kong Investor Investors Relations Team The Pavilions Services Limited HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited Bridgwater Road Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor 6 Front Street Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hopewell Centre Hamilton HM 11 United Kingdom 183 Queens Road East Bermuda Telephone: 44 0 370 702 0137 Hong Kong Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 Email via website: Telephone: 852 2862 8555 Email: hbbm.
co. uk contactus Email: hsbc.
hk Investor Centre: Investor Centre: Investor Centre: www.
com bm Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: The Bank of New York Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 505000 Louisville, KY 40233-5000 USA Telephone US : 1 877 283 5786 Telephone International : 1 201 680 6825 Email: shrrelations@.
com Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for NYSE Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: CACEIS Corporate Trust 14, rue Rouget fide Lisle 92130 Issy-Les-Moulineaux France Telephone: 33 1 57 78 34 28 Email: ct-service-ost@caceis.
com If you have elected to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is important to remember that your main contact for all matters relating to your investment remains the registered shareholder, or custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf.
Therefore any changes or queries relating to your personal details and holding including any administration of it must continue to be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian or broker.
HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters directed to it in error.
Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2017 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: For those in Europe, the Middle East and Africa: For those in Asia: For those in the Americas: Global Communications Communications Asia US Communications HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HSBC Bank USA, N. A.
8 Canada Square Corporation Limited 1 West 39th Street, 9th Floor London E14 5HQ 1 Queens Road Central New York, NY 10018 United Kingdom Hong Kong USA Electronic communications Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive notifications of their availability on HSBCs website.
To receive notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBCs website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.
If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from HSBC, we will also send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email.
If you received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBCs website and would like to receive a printed copy, or if you would like to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email quoting your shareholder reference number to the appropriate Registrars at the address given above.
Printed copies will be provided without charge.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 263 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Shareholder information Chinese translation A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2017 will be available upon request after 7 March 2018 from the Registrars: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Computershare Investor Services PLC Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor The Pavilions Hopewell Centre Bridgwater Road 183 Queens Road East Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hong Kong United Kingdom Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents, or if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive them in future.
Stock symbols HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC.
BH New York Stock Exchange ADS HSBC Investor relations Enquiries relating to HSBCs strategy or operations may be directed to: Richard OConnor, Global Head of Investor Relations Hugh Pye, Head of Investor Relations, Asia-Pacific HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 8 Canada Square Corporation Limited London E14 5HQ 1 Queens Road Central United Kingdom Hong Kong Telephone: 44 0 20 7991 6590 Telephone: 852 2822 4908 Email: investorrelations@hsbc.
com Where more information about HSBC is available This Annual Report and Accounts 2017, and other information on HSBC, may be downloaded from HSBCs website: www.
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.
Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N. E. Washington, DC 20549-0213 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.
Investors should call the Commission at 1 202 551 8090 if they require further assistance.
Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC Holdings files at www.
HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013.
The legislation requires HSBC Holdings to publish additional information in respect of the year ended 31December 2017 by 31 December 2018.
This information will be available on HSBCs website: www.
264 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 indexation allowance that is given in calculating a companys Taxation of shares and dividends chargeable gains at the value that would apply to the disposal of an asset in December 2017.
For assets acquired from 1 January Taxation UK residents 2018 onwards, legislation proposed in Finance Bill 2017-18 The following is a summary, under current law, of certain UK tax removes any indexation allowance on disposal.
If in doubt, considerations that are likely to be material to the ownership and shareholders are recommended to consult their professional disposition of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
not purport to be a comprehensive description of all the tax Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of shares.
In particular, the summary deals with shareholders who are resident Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer generally solely in the UK for UK tax purposes and only with holders who will be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the hold the shares as investments and who are the beneficial owners consideration paid for the transfer rounded up to the next 5, and of the shares, and does not address the tax treatment of certain such stamp duty is generally payable by the transferee.
An classes of holders such as dealers in securities.
Holders and agreement to transfer shares, or any interest therein, normally will prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers give rise to a charge to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares in light of the consideration.
However, provided an instrument of transfer of their particular circumstances, including the effect of any of the shares is executed pursuant to the agreement and duly national, state or local laws.
stamped before the date on which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, under the current published practice of UK HM Taxation of dividends Revenue and Customs HMRC it will not be necessary to pay the Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by stamp duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be cancelled.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable by the transferee.
UK resident individuals Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the UKs paperless share transfer system, are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the UK resident individuals are generally entitled to a tax-free annual rate of 0.5% of the consideration.
In CREST transactions, the tax is allowance in respect of dividends received.
The amount of the calculated and payment made automatically.
Deposits of shares allowance is currently 5,000, but will be reduced to 2,000 from into CREST generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve tax, 6 April 2018.
To the extent that dividend income received unless the transfer into CREST is itself for consideration.
Following by an individual in the relevant tax year does not exceed the the case HSBC pursued before the European Court of Justice allowance, a nil tax rate will apply.
Dividend income in excess of Case C-569 07 HSBC Holdings plc and Vidacos Nominees Ltd v this allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for basic rate taxpayers, The Commissioners for HM Revenue & Customs and a 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% for additional rate subsequent case in relation to depositary receipts, HMRC accepts taxpayers.
that the charge to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue of UK resident companies shares and transfers integral to capital raising to a depositary receipt issuer or a clearance service is incompatible with European Shareholders that are within the charge to UK corporation Union law, and will not be imposed.
taxshould generally be entitled to an exemption from UK corporation tax on any dividends received from HSBC Holdings.
Taxation US residents However, the exemptions are not comprehensive and are subject The following is a summary, under current law, of the principal UK to anti-avoidance rules.
tax and US federal income tax considerations that are likely to be If the conditions for exemption are not met or cease to be material to the ownership and disposition of shares or American satisfied, or a shareholder within the charge to UK corporation tax Depositary Shares ADSs by a holder that is a US holder, as elects for an otherwise exempt dividend to be taxable, the defined below, and who is not resident in the UK for UK tax shareholder will be subject to UK corporation tax on dividends purposes.
received from HSBC Holdings at the rate of corporation tax The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description applicable to that shareholder.
of all of the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of Scrip dividends shares or ADSs.
In particular, the summary deals only with US holders that hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, and does not Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC Holdings address the tax treatment of holders that are subject to special tax scrip dividends offered in lieu of the 2016 fourth interim dividend rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, and the first, second and third interim dividends for 2017 was set dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or out in the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 8 March, 2 June, ADSs as part of an integrated investment including a straddle or 17 August and 25 October 2017.
In no case was the difference hedge comprised of a share or ADS and one or more other between the cash dividend forgone and the market value of the positions, and persons that own, directly or indirectly, 10% or scrip dividend in excess of 15% of the market value.
Accordingly, more of the voting stock of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is for individual shareholders, the amount of the dividend income based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory chargeable to tax, and the acquisition price of the HSBC Holdings interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject ordinary shares for UK capital gains tax purposes, was the cash to change.
For the purposes of this discussion, a US holder is a beneficial Taxation of capital gains holder that is a citizen or resident of the United States, a US The computation of the capital gains tax liability arising on domestic corporation or otherwise is subject to US federal income disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject to taxes on a net income basis in respect thereof.
UK tax on capital gains can be complex, partly depending on Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own whether, for example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and shares or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, including Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to the effect of any national, state or local laws.
1991 in exchange for shares in other companies.
Any US federal tax advice included in this Annual Report and For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for ordinary Accounts 2017 is for informational purposes only: it was not shares is adjusted to take account of subsequent rights and intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the capitalisation issues.
Capital gains arising on a disposal by a UK purpose of avoiding US federal tax penalties.
company may also be adjusted to take account of indexation allowance.
For assets acquired on or before 1 January 2018, legislation proposed in Finance Bill 2017-18 freezes the level of HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 265 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
