Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB, including interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, and as endorsed by the European Union EU.
At 31 December 2017, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2017 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and HSBCs application of IFRSs results in no differences between IFRSs as issued by the IASB and IFRSs as endorsed by the EU.
Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2017 HSBC has adopted the requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments relating to the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value from 1 January 2017 in the consolidated financial statements.
As a result, the effects of changes in those liabilities credit risk is presented in other comprehensive income with the remaining effect presented in profit or loss.
As permitted by the transitional requirements of IFRS 9, comparatives have not been restated.
Adoption increased profit after tax by $2,024m and basic and diluted earnings per share by $0.10 with the opposite effect on other comprehensive income and no effect on net assets.
These requirements were adopted in the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings in 2016.
There were no other new standards applied in 2017.
However, during 2017, HSBC adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
b Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their application to HSBC, and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements.
c Future accounting developments Minor amendments to IFRSs The IASB has published a number of minor amendments to IFRSs which are effective from 1 January 2018 and 2019, some of which have been endorsed for use in the EU.
HSBC expects they will have an insignificant effect, when adopted, on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
HSBC has not early adopted any of the amendments effective after 31 December 2017, except the requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments relating to the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value which was adopted from 1 January 2017.
Major new IFRSs The IASB has published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, IFRS 16 Leases and IFRS 17 Insurance contracts.
IFRS9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 have been endorsed for use in the EU and IFRS 17 has not yet been endorsed.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is the comprehensive standard to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and includes requirements for classification and measurement of financial assets andliabilities, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
Classification and measurement The classification and measurement of financial assets will depend on how these are managed the entitys business model and their contractual cash flow characteristics.
These factors determine whether the financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fairvalue through other comprehensive income FVOCI or fair value through profit or loss FVPL.
The combined effect of the application of the business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics tests may result in some differences in the population of financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair value compared with IAS 39.
In addition, on transition to IFRS 9 entities are required to revoke previous designations of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss where the accounting mismatch no longer exists and are permitted to revoke such designations where accounting mismatches continue to exist.
Impairment The impairment requirements apply to financial assets measured at amortised cost and FVOCI, lease receivables, and certain loancommitments and financial guarantee contracts.
At initial recognition, an impairment allowance or provision in the case of commitments and guarantees is required for expected credit losses ECL resulting from default events that are possible within the next 12 months 12-month ECL.
In the event of a significant increase in credit risk, an allowance or provision is required for ECL resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of the financial instrument lifetime ECL.
Financial assets where 12-month ECL is recognised are in stage 1: financial assets that are considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk are in stage 2: and financial assets for which there is objective evidence of impairment, so are considered to be in default or otherwise credit impaired, are in stage 3.
The assessment of credit risk and the estimation of ECL are required to be unbiased and probability-weighted, and should incorporate all available information relevant to the assessment, including information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of economic conditions at the reporting date.
In addition, the estimation of ECL should take into account the time value of money.
As a result, the recognition and measurement of impairment is intended to be more forward-looking than under IAS 39, and the resulting impairment charge may be more volatile.
IFRS 9 may also result in an increase in the total level of impairment allowances, since all financial assets will be assessed for at least 12-month ECL and the population of financial assets to which lifetime ECL applies is likely to be larger than the population for which there is objective evidence of impairment in accordance with IAS 39.
186 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Hedge accounting The general hedge accounting requirements aim to simplify hedge accounting, creating a stronger link with risk management strategy and permitting hedge accounting to be applied to a greater variety of hedging instruments and risks.
However, they do not explicitly address macro hedge accounting strategies, which are particularly important for banks.
As a result, IFRS 9 includes an accounting policy choice to remain with IAS 39 hedge accounting.
Transitional impact With the exception of the provisions relating to the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value, which were adopted from 1 January 2017, the requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will be adopted from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 includes an accounting policy choice to continue IAS 39 hedge accounting, which HSBC has exercised, although it will implement the revised hedge accounting disclosures required by the related amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The classification and measurement and impairment requirements are applied retrospectively by adjusting the opening balance sheet at the date of initial application, with no requirement to restate comparative periods.
HSBC does not intend to restate comparatives.
For the consolidated financial statements of HSBC, adoption is expected to reduce net assets at 1 January 2018 by $1.0bn, with the classification and measurement changes increasing net assets by $0.9bn and impairment reducing net assets by $2.2bn, net of deferred tax of $0.3bn.
As a consequence, common equity tier 1 capital is expected to increase by $1.2bn, applying regulatory transitional arrangements, and by $0.2bn on a fully loaded basis.
For the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings, adoption is expected to increase net assets at 1 January 2018 by $0.9bn, net of deferred tax, as a result of classification and measurement changes.
These estimates are based on accounting policies, assumptions, judgements and estimation techniques that remain subject to change until the Group finalises its financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and it is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 provides a principles-based approach for revenue recognition, and introduces the concept of recognising revenue for performance obligations as they are satisfied.
HSBC will adopt the standard on its mandatory effective date, and the standard will be applied on a retrospective basis, recognising the cumulative effect, if any, of initially applying the standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
HSBC has assessed the impact of IFRS 15 and expects that the standard will have no significant effect, when applied, on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
IFRS 16 Leases In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases with an effective date for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 results in lessees accounting for most leases within the scope of the standard in a manner similar to the way in which finance leases are currently accounted for under IAS 17 Leases.
Lessees will recognise a right of use asset and a corresponding financial liability on the balance sheet.
The asset will be amortised over the length of the lease, and the financial liability measured at amortised cost.
Lessor accounting remains substantially the same as under IAS 17.
HSBC is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16, and it is not practicable to quantify the effect at the date of the publication of these financial statements.
Existing operating lease commitments are set out in Note 33.
IFRS 17 Insurance contracts IFRS 17 Insurance contracts was issued in May 2017, and sets out the requirements that an entity should apply in accounting for insurance contracts it issues and reinsurance contracts it holds.
IFRS 17 is effective from 1 January 2021, and HSBC is considering its impact.
d Foreign currencies HSBCs consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business.
The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings functional currency because the US dollar and currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date except non-monetary assets andliabilities measured at historical cost which are translated using the rate of exchange at the initial transaction date.
Exchange differences are included in other comprehensive income or in the income statement depending on where the gain or loss on the underlying item is recognised.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets, liabilities and results of foreign operations whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
e Presentation of information Certain disclosures required by IFRSs have been included in the audited sections of this Annual Report and Accounts as follows: segmental disclosures are included in the Report of the Directors: Financial Review on pages 32 to 62: disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments are included in theReport of the Directors: Risk on pages 63 to 116: capital disclosures are included in the Report of the Directors: Capital on pages 117 to 120: and disclosures relating to HSBCs securitisation activities and structured products are included in the Report of the Directors: Risk on pages 63 to 116.
In accordance with its policy to provide disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders understand the Groups performance, financial position and changes to them, the information provided in the Notes on the Financial Statements and the Report of the Directors goes beyond the minimum levels required by accounting standards, statutory and regulatory requirements and listing rules.
In addition, HSBC follows the UK Finance Disclosure Code the UKF Disclosure Code.
The UKF Disclosure Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance agreed in 2010.
In line with the principles of the UKF Disclosure Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 187 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements regulators and standard setters, and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.
f Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions.
In view of the inherent uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of items highlighted as the critical accounting estimates and judgements in section 1.2 below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which managements estimates are based.
This could result in materially different estimates and judgements from those reached by management for the purposes of these financial statements.
Managements selection of HSBCs accounting policies which contain critical estimates and judgements reflects the materiality of the items to which the policies are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved.
g Segmental analysis HSBCs chief operating decision-maker is the Group Chief Executive, supported by the rest of the Group Management Board GMB, which operates as a general management committee under the direct authority of the Board.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Group Chief Executive and the GMB.
Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income and expenses is in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Segmental income and expenses include transfers between segments, and these transfers are conducted at arms length.
Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made.
h Going concern The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
1.2 Summary of significant accounting policies a Consolidation and related policies Investments in subsidiaries Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates when it holds, directly or indirectly, the necessary voting rights to pass resolutions by the governing body.
In all other cases, the assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors, including having exposure to variability of returns, power to direct relevant activities and whether power is held as agent or principal.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either atfair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
This election is made foreach business combination.
HSBC Holdings investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment losses.
Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
HSBCs CGUs are based on geographical regions subdivided by global business, except for Global Banking and Markets, for which goodwill is monitored on a global basis.
Impairment testing is performed at least once a year, or whenever there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount of a CGU with its carrying amount.
Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been allocated or it is an operation within such a CGU.
The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the CGU retained.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The review of goodwill for impairment reflects managements best estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and the rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as follows: The future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of sustainable cash flows thereafter.
Forecasts are compared with actual performance and verifiable economic data, but they reflect managements view of future business prospects at the time of the assessment.
The rates used to discount future expected cash flows can have a significant effect on their valuation, and are based on the costs of capital assigned to individual CGUs.
The cost of capital percentage is generally derived from a capital asset pricing model, which incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, including the risk-free interest rate in the country concerned and a premium for the risk of the business being evaluated.
These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market rates and economic conditions beyond managements control.
They are therefore subject to uncertainty and require the exercise of significant judgement.
The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market conditions.
In such circumstances, management retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than once a year when indicators of impairment exist.
This ensures that the assumptions on which the cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect current market conditions and managements best estimate of future business prospects.
HSBC sponsored structured entities HSBC is considered to sponsor another entity if, in addition to ongoing involvement with the entity, it had a key role in establishing that entity or in bringing together relevant counterparties so the transaction that is the purpose of the entity could occur.
HSBC is generally not considered a sponsor if the only involvement with the entity is merely administrative.
Interests in associates and joint arrangements Joint arrangements are investments in which HSBC, together with one or more parties, has joint control.
Depending on HSBCs rights and obligations, the joint arrangement is classified as either a joint operation or a joint venture.
HSBC classifies investments inentities over which it has significant influence, and that are neither subsidiaries nor joint arrangements, as associates.
HSBC recognises its share of the assets, liabilities and results in a joint operation.
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
The attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates are 188 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 included in the consolidated financial statements of HSBC based on either financial statements made up to 31 December or pro-rated amounts adjusted for any material transactions or events occurring between the date the financial statements are available and 31 December.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are assessed at each reporting date and tested for impairment when there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is not tested separately for impairment, but is assessed as part of the carrying amount of the investment.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Impairment testing of investments in associates involves significant judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from continuing to hold the investment.
The most significant judgements relate to the impairment testing of our investment in Bank of Communications Co. Limited BoCom.
Key assumptions used in estimating BoComs value in use, the sensitivity of the value in use calculation to different assumptions and a sensitivity analysis that shows the changes in key assumptions that would reduce the excess of value in use over the carrying amount the headroom to nil are described in Note 17. b Income and expense Operating income Interest income and expense Interest income and expense for all financial instruments, excluding those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value are recognised in Interest income and Interest expense in the income statement using the effective interest method.
However, as an exception to this, interest on debt securities issued by HSBC that are designated under the fair value option and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities are included in interest expense.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Non-interest income and expense Fee income is earned from a diverse range of services provided by HSBC to its customers.
Fee income is accounted for as follows: Income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed for example, fees arising from negotiating a transaction, such as the acquisition of shares, for a third party : and Income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided for example, asset management services.
Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading, together with the related interest income, expense and dividends.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
This is the ex-dividend date for listed equity securities, and usually the date when shareholders approve the dividend for unlisted equity securities.
Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, including derivatives that are managed in conjunction with those financial assets and liabilities, and liabilities under investment contracts.
Interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of those financial instruments are also included, except for interest arising from debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities, which is recognised in Interest expense.
The accounting policies for insurance premium income are disclosed in Note 1.2 f. c Valuation of financial instruments All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid totransfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is generally its transaction price that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
However, if there is a difference between the transaction price and the fair value of financial instruments whose fair value is based ona quoted price in an active market or a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets, HSBC recognises the difference as a trading gain or loss at inception a day 1 gain or loss.
In all other cases, the entire day 1 gain or loss is deferred and recognised in the income statement over the life of the transaction either until the transaction matures or is closed out, the valuation inputs become observable or HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction.
The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on an individual basis.
However, in cases where HSBC manages a group of financial assets and liabilities according to its net market or credit risk exposure, the fair value of the group of financial instruments is measured on a net basis but the underlying financial assets and liabilities are presented separately in the financial statements, unless they satisfy the IFRS offsetting criteria.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data.
However, certain financial instruments are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them the measurement of fair value is more judgemental.
An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable inputs if, in the opinion of management, a significant proportion of the instruments inception profit or greater than 5% of the instruments valuation is driven by unobservable inputs.
Unobservable in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to determine the price at which an arms length transaction would be likely to occur.
It generally does not mean that there is no data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value consensus pricing data may, for example, be used.
d Financial instruments measured at amortised cost Loans and advances to banks and customers, held-to-maturity investments and most financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost.
The carrying value of these financial assets at initial recognition includes any directly attributable transactions costs.
If the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced, such as in the case of some leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, the difference is deferred and recognised over the life of the loan as described in sub-section c above through the recognition of interest income, unless the loan becomes impaired.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 189 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements HSBC may commit to underwriting loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time.
When the loan arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as a derivative.
When HSBC intends tohold the loan, a provision on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss.
Impairment of loans and advances Losses for impaired loans are recognised when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred.
Losses which may arise from future events are not recognised.
Individually assessed loans and advances The factors considered in determining whether a loan is individually significant for the purposes of assessing impairment include thesize of the loan, the number of loans in the portfolio, the importance of the individual loan relationship and how this is managed.
Loans that are determined to be individually significant will be individually assessed for impairment, except when volumes of defaults and losses are sufficient to justify treatment under a collective methodology.
Loans considered as individually significant are typically to corporate and commercial customers, are for larger amounts and are managed on an individual basis.
For these loans, HSBC considers on a case-by-case basis at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired.
The determination of the realisable value of security is based on the most recently updated market value at the time the impairment assessment is performed.
The value is not adjusted for expected future changes in market prices, though adjustments are made to reflect local conditions such as forced sale discounts.
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan, which include expected future receipts of contractual interest, at the loans original effective interest rate or an approximation thereof, and comparing the resultant present value with the loans current carrying amount.
Collectively assessed loans and advances Impairment is assessed collectively to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment or for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, which are generally retail lending portfolios.
Incurred but not yet identified impairment Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of impairment has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for a collective impairment assessment.
This assessment captures impairment losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date that HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated.
When information becomes available that identifies losses on individual loans within a group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed individually.
Homogeneous groups of loans and advances Statistical methods are used to determine collective impairment losses for homogeneous groups of loans not considered individually significant.
The methods used to calculate collective allowances are set out below: When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology, which employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to reliably estimate the amount of the loans that will eventually be written off as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date.
Individual loans are grouped using ranges of past due days, and statistical estimates are made of the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the various stages of delinquency and become irrecoverable.
Additionally, individual loans are segmented based on their credit characteristics, such asindustry sector, loan grade or product.
In applying this methodology, adjustments are made to estimate the periods of time between a loss event occurring, for example because of a missed payment, and its confirmation through write-off known as the loss identification period.
Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain highly developed markets, models also take into account behavioural and account management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, HSBC adopts a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience, or a discounted cash flow model.
Where a basic formulaic approach is undertaken, the period between a loss event occurring and its identification is estimated by local management, and is typically between six and 12 months.
Write-off of loans and advances Loans and the related impairment allowance accounts are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security.
In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier.
Reversals of impairment If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance account accordingly.
The write-back is recognised in the income statement.
Assets acquired in exchange for loans When non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are held for sale, these assets are recorded as Assets held for sale.
Renegotiated loans Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due, but are treated as up-to-date loans for measurement purposes once a minimum number of required payments has been received.
Where collectively assessed loan portfolios include significant levels of renegotiated loans, these loans are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for the purposes of collective impairment assessment to reflect their risk profile.
Loans subject to individual impairment 190 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired.
The carrying amounts of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or derecognition.
A loan that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement made on substantially different terms or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the renegotiated loan is substantially a different financial instrument.
Any new loans that arise following derecognition events will continue to be disclosed as renegotiated loans andare assessed for impairment as above.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Loan impairment allowances represent managements best estimate of losses incurred in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
Management isrequired to exercise judgement in making assumptions and estimates when calculating loan impairment allowances on both individually and collectively assessed loans and advances.
Collective impairment allowances are subject to estimation uncertainty, in part because it is not practicable to identify losses on an individual loan basis due to the large number of individually insignificant loans in the portfolio.
The estimation methods include the use of statistical analyses of historical information, supplemented with significant management judgement, to assess whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of incurred losses is likely to be greater or less than historical experience.
Where changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions result in the most recent trends in portfolio risk factors being not fully reflected in the statistical models, risk factors are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience.
Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographical concentrations, loan product features, economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies and practices, changes in laws and regulations, and other influences on customer payment patterns.
Different factors are applied in different regions and countries to reflect local economic conditions, laws and regulations.
The methodology and the assumptions used in calculating impairment losses are reviewed regularly in the light of differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
For individually assessed loans, judgement is required in determining whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred and, if so, the measurement of the impairment allowance.
In determining whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred, judgement is exercised in evaluating all relevant information on indicators of impairment, including the consideration of whether payments are contractually past due and the consideration of other factors indicating deterioration in the financial condition and outlook of borrowers, affecting their ability to pay.
A higher level of judgement is required for loans to borrowers showing signs of financial difficulty in market sectors experiencing economic stress, particularly where the likelihood of repayment is affected by the prospects for refinancing or the sale of a specified asset.
For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, management determines the size of the allowance required based on a range of factors such as the realisable value of security, the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy, the viability of the customers business model and the capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations.
HSBC might provide loan forbearance to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties by agreeing to modify the contractual payment terms of loans in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities or avoid default or repossession.
Where forbearance activities are significant, higher levels of judgement and estimation uncertainty are involved in determining their effects on loan impairment allowances.
Judgements are involved in differentiating the credit risk characteristics of forbearance cases, including those which return to performing status following renegotiation.
Where collectively assessed loan portfolios include significant levels of loan forbearance, portfolios are segmented to reflect the different credit risk characteristics of forbearance cases, and estimates are made of the incurred losses inherent within each forbearance portfolio segment.
The exercise of judgement requires the use of assumptions which are highly subjective and very sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to changes in economic and credit conditions across a large number of geographical areas.
Many of the factors have a high degree of interdependency and there is no single factor to which our loan impairment allowances as a whole are sensitive.
Non-trading reverse repurchase, repurchase and similar agreements When debt securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price repos, they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received.
Securities purchased under commitments to resell reverse repos are not recognised on the balance sheet and an asset is recorded in respect of the initial consideration paid.
Non-trading repos and reverse repos are measured at amortised cost.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price or between the purchase and resale price is treated as interest and recognised in net interest income over the life of the agreement.
Contracts that are economically equivalent to reverse repurchase or repurchase agreements such as sales or purchases of debt securities entered into together with total return swaps with the same counterparty are accounted for similarly to, and presented together with, reverse repurchase or repurchase agreements.
e Financial instruments measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised on the trade date when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements to purchase them, and are normally derecognised when they are either sold or redeemed.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in other comprehensive income until the assets are either sold or become impaired.
Upon disposal, the cumulative gains or losses in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as Gains less losses from financial investments.
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are assessed at each balance sheet date for objective evidence of impairment.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement within Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions for debt instruments and within Gains less losses from financial investments for equities.
Available-for-sale debt securities In assessing objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date, HSBC considers all available evidence, including observable data or information about events specifically relating to the securities which may result in a shortfall in the recovery of future cash flows.
A subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement when there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of decreases in the estimated future cash flows.
Where there is no further objective evidence of impairment, the decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the fair value of a debt security increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, or the instrument is no longer impaired, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Available-for-sale equity securities A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity below its cost is objective evidence of impairment.
In assessing whether it is significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the original cost of the asset at initial recognition.
In assessing whether it is HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 191 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements prolonged, the decline is evaluated against the continuous period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its original cost at initial recognition.
All subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument are treated as a revaluation and are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Subsequent decreases in the fair value of the available-for-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement to the extent that further cumulative impairment losses have been incurred.
Impairment losses recognised on the equity security are not reversed through the income statement.
Financial instruments designated at fair value Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below, and are so designated irrevocably at inception: the use of the designation removes or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch: when a group of financial assets, liabilities or both is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy: and where financial instruments contain one or more non-closely related embedded derivatives.
Designated financial assets are recognised when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when the rights to the cash flows expire or are transferred.
Designated financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on settlement date, and are normally derecognised when extinguished.
Subsequent changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value.
Under this criterion, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are: Long-term debt issues The interest and or foreign exchange exposure on certain fixed rate debt securities issued has been matched with the interest and or foreign exchange exposure on certain swaps as part of a documented risk management strategy.
Financial assets and financial liabilities under unit-linked and non-linked investment contracts A contract under which HSBC does not accept significant insurance risk from another party is not classified as an insurance contract, other than investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF, but is accounted for as a financial liability.
See Note 1.2 f for investment contracts with DPF and contracts where HSBC accepts significant insurance risk.
Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts issued by insurance subsidiaries and the corresponding financial assets are designated at fair value.
Liabilities are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts.
The incremental costs directly related to the acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during which the investment management services are provided.
Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, interest rates or other indices.
Derivatives are recognised initially and are subsequently measured at fair value, with changes in fair value generally recorded in the income statement.
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative: this includes embedded derivatives which are bifurcated from the host contract when they meet the definition of a derivative on a standalone basis and are required by IFRSs to be accounted for separately from the host contract.
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are reported in Net trading income.
Gains and losses on derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value together with the gains and losses on the economically hedged items.
Where the derivatives are managed with debt securities issued by HSBC that are designated at fair value, the contractual interest is shown in Interest expense together with the interest payable on the issued debt.
Hedge accounting When derivatives are not part of fair value designated relationships, if held for risk management purposes they are designated in hedge accounting relationships where the required criteria for documentation and hedge effectiveness are met.
HSBC uses these derivatives or, where allowed, other non-derivative hedging instruments in fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations as appropriate to the risk being hedged.
Fair value hedge Fair value hedge accounting does not change the recording of gains and losses on derivatives and other hedging instruments, but results in recognising changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk that would not otherwise be recognised in the income statement.
If a hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued: the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement on a recalculated effective interest rate, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case it is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments is recognised in other comprehensive income: the ineffective portion of the change in fair value of derivative hedging instruments that are part of a cash flow hedge relationship is recognised immediately in the income statement within Net trading income.
The accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in the same periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
In hedges of forecast transactions that result in recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, previous gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
When a hedge relationship is discontinued, or partially discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income remains in equity until the forecast transaction is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to the income statement.
192 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of gains and losses on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income: other gains and losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the disposal, or part disposal, of the foreign operation.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Non-qualifying hedges are derivatives entered into as economic hedges of assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting was not applied.
f Insurance contracts A contract is classified as an insurance contract where HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event.
An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant.
In addition, HSBC issues investment contracts with DPF which are also accounted for as insurance contracts as required by IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
Net insurance premium income Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance contracts where premiums are accounted for when liabilities are established.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance contracts to which they relate.
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movements in liabilities to policyholders Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, including claim handling costs and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration.
Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment.
Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date on which, following notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance liabilities.
Death claims are recognised when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Liabilities under insurance contracts Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on local actuarial principles.
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value, which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
Future profit participation on insurance contracts with DPF Where contracts provide discretionary profit participation benefits to policyholders, liabilities for these contracts include provisions for the future discretionary benefits to policyholders.
These provisions reflect the actual performance of the investment portfolio to date and managements expectation of the future performance of the assets backing the contracts, as well as other experience factors such as mortality, lapses and operational efficiency, where appropriate.
The benefits to policyholders may be determined by the contractual terms, regulation, or past distribution policy.
Investment contracts with DPF While investment contracts with DPF are financial instruments, they continue to be treated as insurance contracts as required by IFRS 4.
The Group therefore recognises the premiums for these contracts as revenue and recognises as an expense the resulting increase in the carrying amount of the liability.
In the case of net unrealised investment gains on these contracts, whose discretionary benefits principally reflect the actual performance of the investment portfolio, the corresponding increase in the liabilities is recognised in either the income statement or other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised gains on the relevant assets.
In the case of net unrealised losses, a deferred participating asset is recognised only to the extent that its recoverability is highly probable.
Movements in the liabilities arising from realised gains and losses on relevant assets are recognised in the income statement.
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business HSBC recognises the value placed on insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF, which are classified as long-term and inforce at the balance sheet date, as an asset.
The asset represents the present value of the equity holders interest in the issuing insurance companies profits expected to emerge from these contracts written at the balance sheet date.
The present value of in-force business PVIF is determined by discounting those expected future profits using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses, and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to the respective contracts.
The PVIF incorporates allowances for both non-market risk and the value of financial options and guarantees.
The PVIF asset is presented gross of attributable tax in the balance sheet and movements in the PVIF asset are included in Other operating income on a gross of tax basis.
g Employee compensation and benefits Share-based payments HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as compensation for services provided by employees.
The vesting period for these schemes may commence before the grant date if the employees have started to render services in respect of the award before the grant date.
Expenses are recognised when the employee starts to render service to which the award relates.
Cancellations result from the failure to meet a non-vesting condition during the vesting period, and are treated as an acceleration of vesting recognised immediately in the income statement.
Failure to meet a vesting condition by the employee is not treated as a cancellation, and the amount of expense recognised for the award is adjusted to reflect the number of awards expected to vest.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 193 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Post-employment benefit plans HSBC operates a number of pension schemes including defined benefit and defined contribution, and post-employment benefit schemes.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as the employees render service.
Defined benefit pension obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method.
The net charge to the income statement mainly comprises the service cost and the net interest on the net defined benefit asset or liability, and is presented in operating expenses.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset or liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
The net defined benefit asset or liability represents the present value of defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value of plan assets, after applying the asset ceiling test, where the net defined benefit surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The cost of obligations arising from other post-employment plans are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans.
h Tax Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the tax is recognised in the same statement as the related item appears.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year and on any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
HSBC provides for potential current tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes.
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled.
Current and deferred tax are calculated based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The recognition of a deferred tax asset relies on an assessment of the probability and sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and ongoing tax planning strategies.
In the absence of a history of taxable profits, the most significant judgements relate to expected future profitability and to the applicability of tax planning strategies, including corporate reorganisations.
i Provisions, contingent liabilities and guarantees Provisions Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a present legal or constructive obligation that has arisen as a result of past events and for which a reliable estimate can be made.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Judgement is involved in determining whether a present obligation exists and in estimating the probability, timing and amount of any outflows.
Professional expert advice is taken on the assessment of litigation, property including onerous contracts and similar obligations.
Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters typically require a higher degree of judgement than other types of provisions.
When matters are at an early stage, accounting judgements can be difficult because of the high degree of uncertainty associated with determining whether a present obligation exists, and estimating the probability and amount of any outflows that may arise.
As matters progress, management and legal advisers evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions should be recognised, revising previous judgements and estimates as appropriate.
At more advanced stages, it is typically easier to make judgements and estimates around a better defined set of possible outcomes.
However, the amount provisioned can remain very sensitive to the assumptions used.
There could be a wide range of possible outcomes for any pending legal proceedings, investigations or inquiries.
As a result, it is often not practicable to quantify a range of possible outcomes for individual matters.
It is also not practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges of potential outcomes in aggregate for these types of provisions because of the diverse nature and circumstances of such matters and the wide range of uncertainties involved.
Provisions for customer remediation also require significant levels of estimation and judgement.
The amounts of provisions recognised depend on a number of different assumptions, such as the volume of inbound complaints, the projected period of inbound complaint volumes, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per customer complaint.
Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, and contingent liabilities related to legal proceedings or regulatory matters, are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is remote.
Financial guarantee contracts Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or present value of the fee receivable.
HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees and similar contracts to other Group entities.
HSBC elects to account for certain guarantees as insurance contracts in HSBC Holdings financial statements, in which case they are measured and recognised as insurance liabilities.
This election is made on a contract-by-contract basis, and is irrevocable.
194 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value 2017 2016 2015 Footnote $m $m $m Net income expense arising on: Financial assets Financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts 3,211 1,480 531 Other financial assets designated at fair value 198 90 89 Derivatives managed with other financial assets designated at fair value 9 43 13 3,400 1,527 633 Financial liabilities Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 375 218 34 HSBCs long-term debt issued and related derivatives 672 3,975 863 1 changes in own credit spread on long-term debt 1,792 1,002 derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBCs issued debt securities 273 1,367 1,997 other changes in fair value 945 816 1,858 Other financial liabilities designated at fair value 1 6 3 Derivatives managed with other financial liabilities designated at fair value 6 1 298 4,193 899 Year ended 31 Dec 3,698 2,666 1,532 1 From 1 January 2017, HSBC Holdings plc adopted, in its consolidated financial statements, the requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments relating to the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value.
As a result, changes in fair value attributable to changes in own credit risk are presented in other comprehensive income with the remaining effect presented in profit or loss.
HSBC Holdings Net income expense arising on HSBC Holdings long-term debt issued and related derivatives 2017 2016 2015 Footnote $m $m $m Net income expense arising on: Financial assets: 211 other financial assets designated at fair value 161 derivatives managed with other financial assets designated at fair value 50 Financial liabilities 103 49 276 1 changes in own credit spread on long-term debt 348 derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings issued debt securities 292 642 927 other changes in fair value 189 593 855 Year ended 31 Dec 314 49 276 1 From 1 January 2016, HSBC Holdings plc adopted, in its separate financial statements, the requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments relating to the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated at fair value.
3 Insurance business Net insurance premium income Investment Non-linked Linked life contracts 1 insurance insurance with DPF Total $m $m $m $m Gross insurance premium income 8,424 351 2,027 10,802 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 1,016 7 1,023 Year ended 31 Dec 2017 7,408 344 2,027 9,779 Gross insurance premium income 8,036 675 1,877 10,588 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 629 8 637 Year ended 31 Dec 2016 7,407 667 1,877 9,951 Gross insurance premium income 7,506 1,409 2,097 11,012 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 648 9 657 Year ended 31 Dec 2015 6,858 1,400 2,097 10,355 1 Discretionary participation features.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 195 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders Investment Non-linked Linked life contracts 1 insurance insurance with DPF Total $m $m $m $m Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 8,894 1,413 2,901 13,208 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 2,883 1,044 2,002 5,929 movement in liabilities 6,011 369 899 7,279 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 942 65 877 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 297 223 520 movement in liabilities 645 288 357 Year ended 31 Dec 2017 7,952 1,478 2,901 12,331 Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 8,778 1,321 2,409 12,508 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 2,828 749 2,017 5,594 movement in liabilities 5,950 572 392 6,914 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 560 78 638 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 112 14 126 movement in liabilities 448 64 512 Year ended 31 Dec 2016 8,218 1,243 2,409 11,870 Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 7,746 1,398 2,728 11,872 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 3,200 1,869 2,101 7,170 movement in liabilities 4,546 471 627 4,702 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 575 5 580 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 153 64 217 movement in liabilities 422 59 363 Year ended 31 Dec 2015 7,171 1,393 2,728 11,292 1 Discretionary participation features.
Liabilities under insurance contracts Investment Non-linked Linked life contracts 1 insurance insurance with DPF Total Footnotes $m $m $m $m Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 1 Jan 2017 46,043 6,949 22,281 75,273 Claims and benefits paid 2,883 1,044 2,002 5,929 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 8,894 1,413 2,901 13,208 2 Exchange differences and other movements 58 230 2,827 3,115 Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2017 52,112 7,548 26,007 85,667 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts 2,203 268 2,471 Net liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2017 49,909 7,280 26,007 83,196 Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 1 Jan 2016 40,538 6,791 22,609 69,938 Claims and benefits paid 2,828 749 2,017 5,594 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 8,778 1,321 2,409 12,508 2 Exchange differences and other movements 445 414 720 1,579 Gross liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2016 46,043 6,949 22,281 75,273 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts 1,500 320 1,820 Net liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 Dec 2016 44,543 6,629 22,281 73,453 1 Discretionary participation features.
2 Exchange differences and other movements includes movements in liabilities arising from net unrealised investment gains recognised in other comprehensive income.
The key factors contributing to the movement in liabilities to policyholders included death claims, surrenders, lapses, liabilities to policyholders created at the initial inception of the policies, the declaration of bonuses and other amounts attributable to policyholders.
196 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4 Operating profit Operating profit is stated after the following items: 2017 2016 2015 $m $m $m Income Interest recognised on impaired financial assets 261 574 934 Fees earned on financial assets that are not at fair value through profit or loss other than amounts included in determining the effective interest rate 7,577 7,732 8,736 Fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities 2,691 2,543 3,052 Expense Interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on financial liabilities held for trading or designated at fair value 10,912 11,858 13,680 Fees payable on financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss other than amounts included in determining the effective interest rate 1,475 1,214 1,251 Fees payable relating to trust and other fiduciary activities 134 129 166 Payments under lease and sublease agreements 936 969 1,190 minimum lease payments 911 945 1,058 contingent rents and sublease payments 25 24 132 UK bank levy 916 922 1,421 Restructuring provisions 204 415 430 Gains losses Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities 98 36 111 Gains losses recognised on assets held for sale 195 206 244 Gains on the partial sale of shareholding in Industrial Bank 1,372 Gain loss on disposal of Brazilian operations 19 1,743 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 1,769 3,400 3,721 net impairment charge on loans and advances 1,992 3,350 3,592 release of impairment on available-for-sale debt securities 190 63 17 other credit risk provisions 33 113 146 External net operating income is attributed to countries on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds: 2017 2016 2015 Footnote $m $m $m 1 External net operating income by country 51,445 47,966 59,800 UK 11,057 9,495 14,132 Hong Kong 14,992 12,864 14,447 US 4,573 5,094 5,541 France 2,203 2,571 2,706 other countries 18,620 17,942 22,974 of which: Brazil 60 204 3,546 1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue.
5 Employee compensation and benefits 2017 2016 2015 $m $m $m Wages and salaries 15,227 15,735 17,245 Social security costs 1,419 1,312 1,600 Post-employment benefits 669 1,042 1,055 Year ended 31 Dec 17,315 18,089 19,900 Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by global business 2017 2016 2015 Retail Banking and Wealth Management 134,021 137,234 155,859 Commercial Banking 46,716 45,912 51,007 Global Banking and Markets 49,100 47,623 49,912 Global Private Banking 7,817 8,322 8,934 Corporate Centre 7,134 7,842 2,721 Year ended 31 Dec 244,788 246,933 268,433 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 197 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by geographical region 2017 2016 2015 Europe 70,301 71,196 68,408 Asia 125,004 122,282 121,438 Middle East and North Africa 10,408 12,021 14,467 North America 18,610 20,353 21,506 Latin America 20,465 21,081 42,614 Year ended 31 Dec 244,788 246,933 268,433 Reconciliation of total incentive awards granted to income statement charge 2017 2016 2015 $m $m $m Total incentive awards approved for the current year 3,303 3,035 3,462 Less: deferred bonuses awarded, expected to be recognised in future periods 337 323 387 Total incentives awarded and recognised in the current year 2,966 2,712 3,075 Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 336 371 483 Other 78 128 40 Income statement charge for incentive awards 3,224 2,955 3,518 Year in which income statement is expected to reflect deferred bonuses Charge recognised Expected charge 2017 2016 2015 2018 2019 and beyond $m $m $m $m $m Variable compensation from 2017 bonus pool 162 162 175 Variable compensation from 2016 bonus pool 126 152 109 84 Variable compensation from 2015 bonus pool and earlier 210 168 253 82 21 Total 498 320 253 353 280 Cash awards 184 114 67 117 99 Equity awards 314 206 186 236 181 Share-based payments Wages and salaries includes the effect of share-based payments arrangements, of which $500m were equity settled 2016: $534m: 2015: $757m, as follows: 2017 2016 2015 $m $m $m Restricted share awards 520 591 748 Savings-related and other share award option plans 26 33 43 Year ended 31 Dec 546 624 791 HSBC share awards Award Policy Deferred share awards An assessment of performance over the relevant period endingon 31 December is used to determine the amount including annual incentive ofthe award to be granted.
awards, LTI awards Deferred awards generally require employees to remain in employment over the vesting period and are not subject to delivered in shares and performance conditions after the grant date.
GPSP Deferred share awards generally vest over a period of three, five or seven years.
Vested shares may be subject to a retention requirement post-vesting.
GPSP awards are retained until cessation of employment.
Awards granted from 2010 onwards are subject to a malus provision prior to vesting.
Awards granted to Material Risk Takers from 2015 onwards aresubject to clawback post vesting.
International Employee The plan was first introduced in Hong Kong in 2013 and now includes employees based in 27 jurisdictions.
Share Purchase Plan Shares are purchased in the market each quarter up to a maximum value of 750, or the equivalent in local currency.
ShareMatch Matching awards are added at a ratio of one free share for every three purchased.
Matching awards vest subject to continued employment and the retention of the purchased shares for a maximum period of two years and nine months.
Movement on HSBC share awards 2017 2016 Number Number 000s 000s Restricted share awards outstanding at 1 Jan 123,166 118,665 Additions during the year 62,044 94,981 Released in the year 76,051 76,552 Forfeited in the year 4,634 13,928 Restricted share awards outstanding at 31 Dec 104,525 123,166 Weighted average fair value of awards granted $ 7.09 7.25 198 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 HSBC share option plans Main plans Policy Savings-related share Two plans: the UK Plan and the International Plan.
The last grant of options under the International Plan was in 2012. option plans Sharesave From 2014, eligible employees can save up to 500 per month with the option to use the savings to acquire shares.
Exercisable within six months following either the third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of a three-year or five-year contract, respectively.
The exercise price is set at a 20% 2016: 20% discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of invitation.
Calculation of fair values The fair values of share options are calculated using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of a share award is based on the share price at the date of the grant.
Movement on HSBC share option plans Savings-related share option plans 1 Number WAEP Footnotes 000s Outstanding at 1 Jan 2017 70,027 4.30 2 Granted during the year 10,447 5.96 3 Exercised during the year 9,503 4.83 Expired during the year 3,902 4.45 Forfeited during the year 2,399 4.27 Outstanding at 31 Dec 2017 64,670 4.49 Of which exercisable 1,129 5.00 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 2.42 Outstanding at 1 Jan 2016 74,775 4.36 2 Granted during the year 15,044 4.40 3 Exercised during the year 4,354 5.02 Expired during the year 13,243 4.49 Forfeited during the year 2,195 4.34 Outstanding at 31 Dec 2016 70,027 4.30 Of which exercisable 1,086 5.25 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 2.91 1 Weighted average exercise price.
2 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was $1.29 2016: $1.28.
3 The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was $9.93 2016: $6.98.
Post-employment benefit plans The Group operates pension plans throughout the world for its employees.
Pension risk management on page 80 contains details of the policies and practices associated with these pension plans.
Some are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme the principal plan.
The principal plan The principal plan has a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section.
The defined benefit section was closed to future benefit accrual in 2015, with defined benefits earned by employees at that date continuing to be linked to their salary while they remain employed by HSBC Bank.
The plan is overseen by an independent corporate trustee, who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the plan.
Its assets are held separately from the assets of the Group.
The investment strategy of the plan is to hold the majority of assets in bonds, with the remainder in a diverse range of investments.
It also includes some interest rate swaps to reduce interest rate risk and inflation swaps to reduce inflation risk.
The latest funding valuation of the plan at 31 December 2014 was carried out by Colin G Singer, of Willis Towers Watson Limited, who is a Fellow of the UK Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
At that date, the market value of the plans assets was 24.6bn $30.3bn and this exceeded the value placed on its liabilities on an ongoing basis by 520m $641m, giving a funding level of 102%.
The main differences between the assumptions used for assessing the liabilities for this funding valuation and those used for IAS 19 are more prudent assumptions for discount rate, inflation rate and life expectancy.
Although the plan was in surplus at the valuation date, HSBC agreed to make further contributions to the plan to support a lower-risk investment strategy over the longer term.
The remaining contributions are 64m $79m in each of 2018 and 2019, and 160m $197m in each of 2020 and 2021.
To meet the requirements of the Banking Reform Act, it is currently planned that from 1 July 2018, the main employer of the plan will change from HSBC Bank plc to HSBC UK Bank plc, with additional support from HSBC Holdings plc.
At the same time, non-ring fenced entities including HSBC Bank plc will exit the section of the plan for ring-fenced entities and join a newly created section for the future defined benefit and defined contribution pension benefits of their employees approximately 0.2% of the total plan.
These changes are not expected to materially affect the funding position of the plan.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 199 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements The following chart shows the expected profile of future benefits payable from the plan.
Future benefit payments $bn The actuary also assessed the value of the liabilities if the plan were to be stopped and an insurance company asked to secure all future pension payments.
This is generally larger than the amount needed on the ongoing basis described above because an insurance company would use more prudent assumptions and include an explicit allowance for the future administrative expenses ofthe plan.
Under this approach, the amount of assets needed was estimated to be 31bn $38bn at 31December 2014.
Income statement charge 2017 2016 2015 $m $m $m Defined benefit pension plans 100 218 256 Defined contribution pension plans 603 783 793 Pension plans 703 1,001 1,049 Defined benefit and contribution healthcare plans 34 41 6 Year ended 31 Dec 669 1,042 1,055 Net assets liabilities recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans Present value of defined Effect of Fair value of benefit limit on plan plan assets obligations surpluses Total $m $m $m $m Defined benefit pension plans 47,265 40,089 37 7,139 Defined benefit healthcare plans 124 663 539 At 31 Dec 2017 47,389 40,752 37 6,600 Total employee benefit liabilities within Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 2,152 Total employee benefit assets within Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 8,752 Defined benefit pension plans 42,397 39,747 24 2,626 Defined benefit healthcare plans 118 711 593 At 31 Dec 2016 42,515 40,458 24 2,033 Total employee benefit liabilities within Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 2,681 Total employee benefit assets within Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 4,714 HSBC Holdings Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings employees in 2017 amounted to $54m 2016: $570m.
The average number of persons employed during 2017 was 55 2016: 1,660.
Employees who are members of defined benefit pension plans are principally members of either the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme or the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme.
HSBC Holdings pays contributions to such plans for its own employees in accordance with the schedules of contributions determined by the trustees of the plans and recognises these contributions as an expense as they fall due.
From 1 July 2016 employment costs of most employees are recognised by the ServCo group and the ServCo group started providing services to HSBC Holdings.
HSBC Holdings recogniseda management charge of $2,240m 2016 :$406m for these services which is included under General and administrative expenses.
200 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Defined benefit pension plans Net asset liability under defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined Effect of the asset Net defined benefit Fair value of plan assets benefit obligations ceiling asset liability Principal Other Principal Other Principal Other Principal Other plan plans plan plans plan plans plan plans $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2017 33,442 8,955 29,279 10,468 24 4,163 1,537 Current service cost 65 160 65 160 Past service cost and gains losses fromsettlements 833 231 1,051 231 218 Service cost 833 296 891 296 58 Net interest income cost on the net defined benefit asset liability 864 272 750 300 1 114 29 Re-measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 1,410 784 1,730 486 9 3,140 289 return on plan assets excluding interest income 1,410 784 1,410 784 actuarial gains losses 954 491 9 954 500 other changes 776 5 776 5 Exchange differences 3,292 239 2,723 306 3 569 70 Contributions by HSBC 449 236 449 236 normal 58 215 58 215 special 391 21 391 21 Contributions by employees 27 27 Benefits paid 1,143 663 1,143 716 53 Administrative costs and taxes paid by plan 49 17 49 17 At 31 Dec 2017 38,265 9,000 30,126 9,963 37 8,139 1,000 Present value of defined benefit obligation relating to: actives 5,837 5,084 deferreds 8,745 1,663 pensioners 15,544 3,216 At 1 Jan 2016 32,670 8,754 27,675 10,651 14 4,995 1,911 Current service cost 70 235 70 235 Past service cost and gains losses fromsettlements 1 39 40 Service cost 1 70 274 70 275 Net interest income cost on the net defined benefit asset liability 1,085 294 914 337 1 171 44 Re-measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 6,449 671 6,886 299 8 437 364 return on plan assets excluding interest income 6,449 671 6,449 671 actuarial gains losses 7,029 152 8 7,029 160 other changes 143 147 143 147 Exchange differences 6,097 534 5,254 410 1 843 125 Contributions by HSBC 347 379 347 379 normal 64 207 64 207 special 283 172 283 172 Contributions by employees 30 30 Benefits paid 970 623 970 698 75 Administrative costs and taxes paid by plan 42 15 42 15 At 31 Dec 2016 33,442 8,955 29,279 10,468 24 4,163 1,537 Present value of defined benefit obligation relating to: actives 7,066 5,066 deferreds 9,219 2,306 pensioners 12,994 3,096 HSBC expects to make $278m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2018.
Benefits expected to be paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years thereafter, are as follows: Benefits expected to be paid from plans 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023-2027 Footnote $m $m $m $m $m $m 1 The principal plan 1,241 1,279 1,320 1,360 1,402 7,692 1 Other plans 443 508 511 527 520 2,307 1 The duration of the defined benefit obligation is 17.4 years for the principal plan under the disclosure assumptions adopted 2016: 19.0 years and 12.9 years for all other plans combined 2016: 13.9 years.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 201 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Fair value of plan assets by asset classes 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Quoted No quoted Quoted No quoted market price market price market price market price in active in active Thereof in active in active Thereof 1 1 Value market market HSBC Value market market HSBC $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m The principal plan Fair value of plan assets 38,265 33,624 4,641 1,006 33,442 29,379 4,063 878 equities 6,131 5,503 628 5,386 4,722 664 bonds 26,591 26,591 23,426 23,426 derivatives 2,398 2,398 1,006 2,107 2,107 878 other 3,145 1,530 1,615 2,523 1,231 1,292 Other plans Fair value of plan assets 9,000 7,737 1,263 114 8,955 7,631 1,324 239 equities 2,005 1,340 665 2,255 1,502 753 bonds 5,871 5,714 157 7 5,811 5,592 219 5 derivatives 39 39 89 44 133 85 other 1,124 644 480 107 978 493 485 319 1 The fair value of plan assets includes derivatives entered into with HSBC Bank plc as detailed in Note 35.
Post-employment defined benefit plans principal actuarial financial assumptions HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans local actuaries, on the basis of current average yields of high quality AA-rated or equivalent debt instruments with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.
Key actuarial assumptions for the principal plan Rate of increase Rate of pay Discount rate Inflation rate for pensions increase % % % % UK At 31 Dec 2017 2.60 3.40 3.10 3.88 At 31 Dec 2016 2.50 3.50 3.20 4.00 At 31 Dec 2015 3.70 3.20 3.00 3.70 Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 65 for the principal plan Mortality Life expectancy at age 65 for Life expectancy at age 65 for table a male member currently: a female member currently: Aged 65 Aged 45 Aged 65 Aged 45 UK 1 At 31 Dec 2017 SAPS S2 22.2 23.6 24.4 25.9 2 At 31 Dec 2016 SAPS S2 22.4 24.1 24.7 26.6 1 Self-administered pension scheme SAPS S2 table males: 'All Pensioners' version: females: 'Normal Pensions' version with a multiplier of 0.98 for both male and female pensioners.
Improvements are projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI core projection model 2016 with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum.
Separate tables assuming lighter mortality have been applied to higher paid pensioners.
2 Self-administered pension scheme SAPS S2 table males: 'All Pensioners' version: females: 'Normal Pensions' version with a multiplier of 0.98 for both male and female pensioners.
Improvements are projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI core projection model 2015 with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum.
The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan Impact on HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme Obligation Financial impact of increase Financial impact of decrease 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Discount rate increase decrease of 0.25% 1,246 1,322 1,333 1,419 Inflation rate increase decrease of 0.25% 850 735 837 1,048 Pension payments and deferred pensions increase decrease of 0.25% 1,077 1,305 1,021 1,255 Pay increase decrease of 0.25% 62 143 61 139 Change in mortality increase of 1 year 1,332 1,326 n a n a Directors emoluments Details of Directors emoluments, pensions and their interests are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 141.
202 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 6 Auditors remuneration 2017 2016 2015 Footnote $m $m $m 1 Audit fees payable to PwC 84.8 65.7 62.0 Other audit fees payable 1.2 1.6 1.2 Year ended 31 Dec 86.0 67.3 63.2 Fees payable by HSBC to PwC 2017 2016 2015 Footnotes $m $m $m 2 Fees for HSBC Holdings statutory audit 15.1 14.0 13.1 Fees for other services provided to HSBC 114.6 97.1 85.1 3 audit of HSBCs subsidiaries 69.7 51.7 48.9 4 audit-related assurance services 22.5 20.6 16.6 taxation compliance services 1.2 1.9 1.0 taxation advisory services 0.4 0.9 5 other assurance services 3.9 4.5 2.8 5 other non-audit services 17.3 18.0 14.9 Year ended 31 Dec 129.7 111.1 98.2 No fees were payable by HSBC to PwC as principal auditor for the following types of services: internal audit services and services related to litigation, recruitment and remuneration.
Fees payable by HSBCs associated pension schemes to PwC 2017 2016 2015 $000 $000 $000 Audit of HSBCs associated pension schemes 260 208 352 Audit related assurance services 4 4 5 Year ended 31 Dec 264 212 357 1 The 2016 audit fees payable amount includes $4.2m related to the prior year audit in respect of overruns.
2 Fees payable to PwC for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
They include amounts payable for services relating to the consolidation returns of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries which are clearly identifiable as being in support of the Group audit opinion.
3 Fees payable for the statutory audit of the financial statements of HSBCs subsidiaries, including the 2017 and 2016 changes in scope and additional procedures performed due to the technology systems and data access controls matter as described on page 166.
4 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews and work performed related to the implementation of IFRS 9.
5 Including other permitted services relating to advisory, corporate finance transactions, etc.
No fees were payable by HSBCs associated pension schemes to PwC as principal auditor for the following types of services: internal audit services, other assurance services, services related to corporate finance transactions, valuation and actuarial services, litigation, recruitment and remuneration, and information technology.
In addition to the above, the estimated fees paid to PwC by third parties associated with HSBC amount to $3.5m 2016: $4.3m: 2015: $2.4m.
In these cases, HSBC is connected with the contracting party and may therefore be involved in appointing PwC.
These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC.
Fees payable for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the HSBC Group.
7 Tax Tax expense 2017 2016 2015 Footnote $m $m $m 1 Current tax 4,264 3,669 3,797 for this year 4,115 3,525 3,882 adjustments in respect of prior years 149 144 85 Deferred tax 1,024 3 26 origination and reversal of temporary differences 228 111 153 effect of changes in tax rates 1,337 4 110 adjustments in respect of prior years 85 112 17 Year ended 31 Dec 5,288 3,666 3,771 1 Current tax included Hong Kong profits tax of $1,350m 2016: $1,118m: 2015: $1,294m.
The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the profits of subsidiaries assessable in Hong Kong was 16.5% 2016: 16.5%: 2015: 16.5%.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 203 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Tax reconciliation The tax charged to the income statement differs from the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the UK corporation tax rate as follows: 2017 2016 2015 $m % $m % $m % Profit before tax 17,167 7,112 18,867 Tax expense Taxation at UK corporation tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20.0%: 3,305 19.25 1,422 20.00 3,821 20.25 2015: 20.25% Impact of differently taxed overseas profits in overseas locations 407 2.3 43 0.6 71 0.4 Items increasing tax charge in 2017 not in 2016: deferred tax remeasurement due to US federal tax rate reduction 1,288 7.5 Other items increasing tax charge in 2017: local taxes and overseas withholding taxes 618 3.6 434 6.1 416 2.2 other permanent disallowables 400 2.3 438 6.2 421 2.2 bank levy 180 1.0 170 2.4 286 1.5 non-deductible UK customer compensation 166 1.0 162 2.3 87 0.5 UK banking surcharge 136 0.8 199 2.8 UK tax losses not recognised 70 0.4 305 4.3 adjustments in respect of prior period liabilities 64 0.4 256 3.6 68 0.4 change in tax rates 49 0.3 4 0.1 110 0.6 non-UK tax losses not recognised 33 0.2 147 2.1 non-deductible goodwill write-down 648 9.1 non-deductible loss and taxes suffered on Brazil disposal 464 6.5 Items reducing tax charge in 2017: non-taxable income and gains 766 4.4 577 8.1 501 2.7 effect of profits in associates and joint ventures 481 2.8 461 6.5 508 2.7 non-deductible regulatory settlements 132 0.8 20 0.3 184 1.0 other deferred tax temporary differences previously not recognised 49 0.3 21 0.1 non-taxable income and gains - Industrial Bank 227 1.2 US deferred tax temporary differences previously not recognised 184 1.0 other items 116 0.6 Year ended 31 Dec 5,288 30.8 3,666 51.6 3,771 20.0 The Groups profits are taxed at different rates depending on the country in which the profits arise.
The key applicable tax rates for 2017 include Hong Kong 16.5%, the USA 35% and the UK 19.25%.
If the Groups profits were taxed at the statutory rates of the countries in which the profits arose then the tax rate for the year would have been 21.15% 2016: 20.60%.
The effective tax rate for the year was 30.8% 2016: 51.6% and includes a charge of $1.3bn relating to the remeasurement of US deferred tax balances to reflect the reduction in the US federal tax rate to 21% from 2018.
The effective tax rate for 2017 was significantly lower than for 2016 as 2016 included the impact of a non-deductible goodwill write-down and loss on disposal of our operations in Brazil, tax losses not recognised and adjustments in respect of prior periods.
Accounting for taxes involves some estimation because the tax law is uncertain and its application requires a degree of judgement, which authorities may dispute.
Liabilities are recognised based on best estimates of the probable outcome, taking into account external advice where appropriate.
We do not expect significant liabilities to arise in excess of the amounts provided.
HSBC only recognises current and deferred tax assets where recovery is probable.
2 After netting off balances within countries, the balances as disclosed in the accounts are as follows: deferred tax assets $4,676m 2016: $6,163m : and deferred tax liabilities $1,982m 2016: $1,623m.
In applying judgement in recognising deferred tax assets, management has critically assessed all available information, including future business profit projections and the track record of meeting forecasts.
The net deferred tax asset of $2.7bn 2016: $4.5bn includes $3.2bn 2016: $4.8bn of deferred tax assets relating to the US, of which $1bn relates to US tax losses that expire in 16 -19 years.
Management expects the US deferred tax asset to be substantially recovered in six to seven years, with the majority recovered in the first five years.
The most recent financial forecasts approved by management covers a five-year period and the forecasts have been extrapolated beyond five years by assuming that performance remains constant after the fifth year.
The US reported a loss for the prior period, mainly due to the Household International class action litigation settlement, and a profit for the current period.
Excluding the Household International class action settlement the US would have reported a profit for the prior period.
Management does not expect the prior period loss to adversely impact future deferred tax asset recovery to a significant extent.
US tax reform enacted in late 2017 and effective from 2018 included a reduction in the federal rate of tax from 35% to 21% and the introduction of a base erosion anti-avoidance tax.
The US deferred tax asset at 31 December 2017 is calculated using the rate of 21%.
The remeasurement of the deferred tax asset due to the reduction in tax rate results in charges of $1.3bn to the income statement and $0.3bn to other comprehensive income.
The impact of the base erosion anti-avoidance tax is currently uncertain and will depend on future regulatory guidance and actions management may take.
It is not currently expected that the base erosion anti-avoidance tax will have a material impact on the Groups future tax charges.
Unrecognised deferred tax The amount of gross temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was $18.1bn 2016: $18.2bn.
These amounts included unused state losses arising in the Groups US operations of $12.3bn 2016: $12.3bn.
Of the total amounts unrecognised, $4.8bn 2016: $4.9bn had no expiry date, $0.8bn 2016: $1.0bn was scheduled to expire within 10 years and the remaining balance is expected to expire after 10 years.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Groups investments in subsidiaries and branches where HSBC is able to control the timing of remittance or other realisation and where remittance or realisation is not probable in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate temporary differences relating to unrecognised deferred tax liabilities arising on investments in subsidiaries and branches is $12.1bn 2016: $10.6bn and the corresponding unrecognised deferred tax liability is $0.8bn 2016: $0.7bn.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 205 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 8 Dividends Dividends to shareholders of the parent company 2017 2016 2015 Per Settled Per Settled Per Settled share Total in scrip share Total in scrip share Total in scrip $ $m $m $ $m $m $ $m $m Dividends paid on ordinary shares In respect of previous year: fourth interim dividend 0.21 4,169 1,945 0.21 4,137 408 0.20 3,845 2,011 In respect of current year: first interim dividend 0.10 2,005 826 0.10 1,981 703 0.10 1,951 231 second interim dividend 0.10 2,014 193 0.10 1,991 994 0.10 1,956 160 third interim dividend 0.10 2,005 242 0.10 1,990 935 0.10 1,958 760 Total 0.51 10,193 3,206 0.51 10,099 3,040 0.50 9,710 3,162 Total dividends on preference shares classified 62.00 90 62.00 90 62.00 90 as equity paid quarterly Total coupons on capital securities classified as equity 2017 2016 2015 Total Total Total Footnotes First call date Per security $m $m $m 1, 3 Perpetual subordinated capital securities $2,200m issued at 8.125% Apr 2013 $2.032 179 179 179 $3,800m issued at 8.000% Dec 2015 $2.000 304 304 304 2, 3 Perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities $1,500m issued at 5.625% Jan 2020 $56.250 84 84 70 $2,000m issued at 6.875% Jun 2021 $68.750 138 69 $2,250m issued at 6.375% Sep 2024 $63.750 143 143 143 $2,450m issued at 6.375% Mar 2025 $63.750 156 156 78 $3,000m issued at 6.000% May 2027 $60.000 90 1,500m issued at 5.250% Sep 2022 52.500 89 88 86 1,000m issued at 6.000% Sep 2023 60.000 68 67 SGD1,000m issued at 4.700% Jun 2022 SGD47.000 17 Total 1,268 1,090 860 1 Discretionary coupons are paid quarterly on the perpetual subordinated capital securities, in denominations of $25 per security.
2 Discretionary coupons are paid semi-annually on the perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities, in denominations of each securitys issuance currency 1,000 per security.
3 Further details of these securities can be found in Note 31.
After the end of the year, the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2017 of $0.21 per ordinary share, a distribution of approximately $4,199m.
The fourth interim dividend will be payable on 6 April 2018 to holders on the Principal Register in the UK, the Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register or the Bermuda Overseas Branch Register on 23February 2018.
No liability was recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2017.
On 4 January 2018, HSBC paid a coupon on its 1,250m subordinated capital securities, representing a total distribution of 30m $36.3m.
On 17 January 2018, HSBC paid a coupon on its $2,200m subordinated capital securities of $0.508 per security, a distribution of$45m.
On 17 January 2018, HSBC paid a coupon on its $1,500m subordinated contingent convertible securities issued at 5.625% of $28.125 per security, a distribution of $42m.
No liability was recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 in respect of these coupon payments.
9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held.
Diluted earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 2017 2016 2015 $m $m $m Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 10,798 2,479 13,522 Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity 90 90 90 Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity 1,025 1,090 860 Year ended 31 Dec 9,683 1,299 12,572 206 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Basic and diluted earnings per share 2017 2016 2015 Number Per Number Per Number Per Profit of shares share Profit of shares share Profit of shares share Footnote $m millions $ $m millions $ $m millions $ 1 Basic 9,683 19,972 0.48 1,299 19,753 0.07 12,572 19,380 0.65 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 100 92 137 1 Diluted 9,683 20,072 0.48 1,299 19,845 0.07 12,572 19,517 0.64 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding basic or assuming dilution diluted.
The number of anti-dilutive employee share options excluded from the weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares is nil 2016: 10m: 2015: 7m.
10 Trading assets 2017 2016 Footnote $m $m Treasury and other eligible bills 17,532 14,451 Debt securities 107,486 94,054 Equity securities 99,260 63,604 Trading securities 224,278 172,109 1 Loans and advances to banks 26,057 24,769 1 Loans and advances to customers 37,660 38,247 At 31 Dec 287,995 235,125 1 Loans and advances to banks and customers include settlement accounts, stock borrowing, reverse repos, cash collateral and margin accounts relating to trading activities.
1 Trading Securities 2017 2016 Footnotes $m $m 2 US Treasury and US Government agencies 15,995 17,010 UK Government 9,540 9,493 Hong Kong Government 10,070 7,970 Other governments 58,858 49,229 3 Asset-backed securities 2,986 2,668 Corporate debt and other securities 27,569 22,135 Equity securities 99,260 63,604 At 31 Dec 224,278 172,109 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of $18,585m 2016: $14,630m, of which $906m 2016: $789m are guaranteed by various governments.
2 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government.
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies.
11 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Control framework Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a function independent of the risk taker.
Where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, independent price determination or validation is used.
For inactive markets, HSBC sources alternative market information, with greater weight given to information that is considered to be more relevant and reliable.
Examples of the factors considered are price observability, instrument comparability, consistency of data sources, underlying data accuracy and timing of prices.
For fair values determined using valuation models, the control framework includes development or validation by independent support functions of the model logic, inputs, model outputs and adjustments.
Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence before becoming operational and are calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis.
Changes in fair value are generally subject to a profit and loss analysis process and are disaggregated into high-level categories including portfolio changes, market movements and other fair value adjustments.
The majority of financial instruments measured at fair value are in GB&M.
GB&Ms fair value governance structure comprises its Finance function, Valuation Committees and a Valuation Committee Review Group.
Finance is responsible for establishing procedures governing valuation and ensuring fair values are in compliance with accounting standards.
The fair values are reviewed by the Valuation Committees, which consist of independent support functions.
These Committees are overseen by the Valuation Committee Review Group, which considers all material subjective valuations.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 207 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Financial liabilities measured at fair value In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for the specific instrument.
When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for which are either based on quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument or are estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments.
In both cases, the fair value includes the effect of applying the credit spread which is appropriate to HSBCs liabilities.
The change in fair value of issued debt securities attributable to the Groups own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each reporting date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar securities for the same issuer.
Then, using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using a Libor-based discount curve.
The difference in the valuations is attributable to the Groups own credit spread.
This methodology is applied consistently across all securities.
Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instruments are included within trading liabilities and are measured at fair value.
Thecredit spread applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse over the contractual life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount.
Fair value hierarchy Fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined according to the following hierarchy: Level 1 valuation technique using quoted market price: financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets that HSBC can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 valuation technique using observable inputs: financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Level 3 valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation 2017 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Recurring fair value measurements at 31 Dec Assets Trading assets 181,168 101,775 5,052 287,995 133,744 94,892 6,489 235,125 Financial assets designated at fair value 24,622 3,382 1,460 29,464 19,882 4,144 730 24,756 Derivatives 1,017 216,357 2,444 219,818 1,076 287,044 2,752 290,872 Financial investments: available for sale 227,943 104,692 3,432 336,067 274,655 111,743 3,476 389,874 Liabilities Trading liabilities 62,710 117,451 4,200 184,361 45,171 104,938 3,582 153,691 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 4,164 90,265 94,429 4,248 82,547 37 86,832 Derivatives 1,635 213,242 1,944 216,821 1,554 275,965 2,300 279,819 Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values Assets Liabilities Available Held for Designated Held for Designated for sale trading at fair value Derivatives trading at fair value Derivatives $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2017 Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 2,231 1,507 35 Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 11,173 1,384 683 At 31 Dec 2016 Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 162 1,614 122 465 2,699 209 Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 1,314 341 Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each semi-annual reporting period.
Transfers into and out of levels of the fair value hierarchy are primarily attributable to observability of valuation inputs and price transparency.
Fair value adjustments Fair value adjustments are adopted when HSBC determines there are additional factors considered by market participants that are not incorporated within the valuation model.
Movements in the level of fair value adjustments do not necessarily result in the recognition of profits or losses within the income statement, such as when models are enhanced and therefore fair value adjustments may no longer be required 208 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Global Banking & Markets GB&M and Corporate Centre fair value adjustments 2017 2016 Corporate Corporate GB&M Centre GB&M Centre $m $m $m $m Type of adjustment Risk-related 1,078 79 1,131 5 bid-offer 413 5 416 5 uncertainty 91 8 87 credit valuation adjustment CVA 420 59 633 debit valuation adjustment DVA 82 437 funding fair value adjustment FFVA 233 7 429 other 3 3 Model-related 92 13 14 1 model limitation 92 6 14 1 other 7 Inception profit Day 1 P&L reserves Note 14 106 99 At 31 Dec 1,276 92 1,244 6 Fair value adjustments increased by $118m during the year.
Movements in CVA, DVA, FFVA and model limitations were driven by tightening credit spreads and refinements to model methodology.
Fair value adjustments under Corporate Centre in 2017 include the transfer of balances on legacy positions no longer managed in GB&M.
Bid-offer IFRS 13 Fair value measurement requires use of the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value.
Valuation models will typically generate mid-market values.
The bid-offer adjustment reflects the extent to which bid-offer costs would be incurred if substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding the position.
Uncertainty Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data, and or the choice of model itself may be more subjective.
Inthese circumstances an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that market participants would adopt more conservative values for uncertain parameters and or model assumptions than those used in HSBCs valuation model.
Credit and debit valuation adjustments The CVA is an adjustment to the valuation of over-the-counter OTC derivative contracts to reflect the possibility that the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the transactions.
The DVA is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect the possibility that HSBC may default, and that it may not pay the full market value of the transactions.
HSBC calculates a separate CVA and DVA for each legal entity, and for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure.
With the exception of central clearing parties, all third-party counterparties are included in the CVA and DVA calculations, and these adjustments are not netted across Group entities.
HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default PD of the counterparty, conditional on the non-default of HSBC, toHSBCs expected positive exposure to the counterparty and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default.
Conversely, HSBC calculates the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the counterparty to HSBC and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default.
Bothcalculations are performed over the life of the potential exposure.
For most products HSBC uses a simulation methodology, which incorporates a range of potential exposures over the life of the portfolio, to calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty.
The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants, such as counterparty netting agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty.
The methodologies do not, in general, account for wrong-way risk.
Wrong-way risk is an adverse correlation between the counterpartys probability of default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction.
The risk can either be general, perhaps related to the currency of the issuer country, or specific to the transaction concerned.
When there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to reflect this risk in the valuation.
Funding fair value adjustment The FFVA is calculated by applying future market funding spreads to the expected future funding exposure of any uncollateralised component of the OTC derivative portfolio.
The expected future funding exposure is calculated by a simulation methodology, where available, and is adjusted for events that may terminate the exposure, such as the default of HSBC or the counterparty.
The FFVA and DVA are calculated independently.
Model limitation Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplified set of assumptions that do not capture all current and future material market characteristics.
In these circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted.
Inception profit Day 1 P&L reserves Inception profit adjustments are adopted when the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more significant unobservable inputs.
The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed in Note 1.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 209 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Fair value valuation bases Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs Level 3 Assets Liabilities Held for Designated Held for Designated Available for sale trading at fair value Derivatives Total trading at fair value Derivatives Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Private equity including strategic investments 2,012 38 1,458 3,508 20 20 Asset-backed securities 1,300 1,277 2,577 Loans held for securitisation 24 24 Structured notes 3 3 4,180 4,180 Derivatives with monolines 113 113 Other derivatives 2,331 2,331 1,944 1,944 Other portfolios 120 3,710 2 3,832 At 31 Dec 2017 3,432 5,052 1,460 2,444 12,388 4,200 1,944 6,144 Private equity including strategic investments 2,435 49 712 3,196 25 25 Asset-backed securities 761 789 1,550 Loans held for securitisation 28 28 Structured notes 2 2 3,557 3,557 Derivatives with monolines 175 175 Other derivatives 2,577 2,577 2,300 2,300 Other portfolios 280 5,621 18 5,919 37 37 At 31 Dec 2016 3,476 6,489 730 2,752 13,447 3,582 37 2,300 5,919 Level 3 instruments are present in both ongoing and legacy businesses.
Loans held for securitisation, derivatives with monolines, certain other derivatives and predominantly all Level 3 ABSs are legacy positions.
HSBC has the capability to hold these positions.
Private equity including strategic investments The investments fair value is estimated: on the basis of an analysis of the investees financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors: by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market: or the price at which similar companies have changed ownership.
Asset-backed securities While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of these securities, valuation models are used to substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted market prices are required.
For certain ABSs such as residential mortgage-backed securities, the valuation uses an industry standard model with assumptions relating to prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and performance, as appropriate.
The valuations output is benchmarked for consistency against observable data for securities of a similar nature.
Structured notes The fair value of Level 3 structured notes is derived from the fair value of the underlying debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is determined as described in the paragraph below on derivatives.
These structured notes comprise principally equity-linked notes issued by HSBC which provide the counterparty with a return linked to the performance of equity securities and other portfolios.
Examples of the unobservable parameters include long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, and interest and foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives OTC derivative valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based upon no-arbitrage principles.
For many vanilla derivative products, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry.
For more complex derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice.
Inputs to valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing.
Certain inputs may not be observable in the market directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical data or other sources.
210 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy Movement in Level 3 financial instruments Assets Liabilities Designated Designated Available Held for Held for at fair at fair for sale trading Derivatives trading Derivatives value value Footnote $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2017 3,476 6,489 730 2,752 3,582 37 2,300 Total gains losses recognised in profit orloss 351 188 107 152 154 5 400 trading income expense excluding net interest income 188 152 154 400 net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value 107 5 gains less losses from financial investments 313 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions LICs 38 Total gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income OCI 1 71 106 7 188 169 1 120 available-for-sale investments: fair value gains losses 30 cash flow hedges: fair value gains losses 1 3 23 35 exchange differences 101 107 4 211 169 1 155 Purchases 200 1,503 1,127 2 5 23 New issuances 1 1,915 Sales 939 3,221 130 8 12 12 Settlements 69 331 166 60 998 123 Transfers out 565 149 3 885 678 33 1,030 Transfers in 907 843 2 302 63 266 At 31 Dec 2017 3,432 5,052 1,460 2,444 4,200 1,944 Unrealised gains losses recognised in profit or loss relating to assets and liabilities held at 31Dec 2016 16 110 146 218 117 397 trading income expense excluding net interest income 110 218 117 397 net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value 146 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 16 At 1 Jan 2016 4,727 6,856 474 2,262 4,285 3 1,210 Total gains losses recognised in profit orloss 178 31 25 1,107 337 1 1,428 trading income expense excluding net interest income 31 1,107 337 1,428 net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value 25 1 gains less losses from financial investments 91 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions LICs 87 Total gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income OCI 1 162 610 8 335 130 1 240 available-for-sale investments: fair value gains losses 123 cash flow hedges: fair value gains losses 12 exchange differences 285 610 8 335 130 1 252 Purchases 350 823 359 20 6 New issuances 1,882 Sales 1,212 1,760 7 40 2 Settlements 177 311 113 107 1,907 239 Transfers out 947 199 2 187 920 229 Transfers in 719 1,659 2 12 55 32 370 At 31 Dec 2016 3,476 6,489 730 2,752 3,582 37 2,300 Unrealised gains losses recognised in profit or loss relating to assets and liabilities held at 31Dec 2015 87 170 21 364 143 1 335 trading income expense excluding net interest income 170 364 143 335 net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value 21 1 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 87 1 Included in Available-for-sale investments: fair value gains losses and Exchange differences in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each semi-annual reporting period.
Transfers into and out of Levels of the fair value hierarchy are primarily attributable to observability of valuation inputs and price transparency.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 211 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives Sensitivity of Level 3 fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions 2017 2016 Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI UnUnUnUnFavourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable changes changes changes changes changes changes changes changes Footnote $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Derivatives, trading assets and 1 372 253 238 177 trading liabilities Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 89 74 48 38 Financial investments: available for sale 53 30 128 149 72 36 170 149 At 31 Dec 514 357 128 149 358 251 170 149 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these instruments are riskmanaged.
Sensitivity of Level 3 fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions by instrument type 2017 2016 Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in OCI UnUnUnUnFavourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable Favourable favourable changes changes changes changes changes changes changes changes $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Private equity including strategic investments 142 105 117 102 112 73 121 106 Asset-backed securities 66 39 3 39 43 15 33 27 Loans held for securitisation 1 1 1 1 Structured notes 12 9 10 7 Derivatives with monolines 3 3 Other derivatives 249 150 141 94 Other portfolios 44 53 8 8 48 58 16 16 At 31 Dec 514 357 128 149 358 251 170 149 The sensitivity analysis aims to measure a range of fair values consistent with the application of a 95% confidence interval.
Methodologies take account of the nature of the valuation technique employed, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and historical data.
When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table reflects the most favourable or the most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
212 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments Quantitative information about significant unobservable inputs in Level 3 valuations Fair value 2017 2016 Key Valuation unobservable Full range Core range Full range Core range 1 1 Assets Liabilities techniques inputs of inputs of inputs of inputs of inputs Footnotes $m $m Lower Higher Lower Higher Lower Higher Lower Higher Private equity including See page See page strategic investments 3,508 20 255 255 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 2 Asset-backed securities 2,577 Prepayment CLO CDO 520 Market proxy rate 2% 7% 2% 7% 2% 7% 2% 7% Market proxy Bid quotes 0 101 6 53 0 101 42 94 other ABSs 2,057 Market proxy Bid quotes 0 103 34 98 0 96 57 90 Loans held for 24 securitisation Structured notes 3 4,180 Model Equity equity-linked notes 4,077 Option model volatility 7% 47% 14% 30% 11% 96% 16% 36% Model Equity Option model correlation 33% 95% 45% 72% 33% 94% 46% 81% Model Fund fund-linked notes 7 Option model volatility 6% 15% 6% 15% 6% 11% 6% 11% Model FX-linked notes 76 Option model FX volatility 3% 20% 4% 13% 3% 29% 5% 18% other 3 20 Model Derivatives with Credit Discounted monolines 113 spread 0.4% 3% 1% 3% 2% 2% 2% 2% cash flow Other derivatives 2,331 1,944 Interest rate derivatives: Model Prepayment Discounted securitisation swaps 285 806 rate 20% 90% 20% 90% 0% 90% 8% 27% cash flow Model long-dated swaptions 1,244 66 Option model IR volatility 8% 41% 15% 31% 8% 101% 21% 39% other 302 145 FX derivatives: Model FX options 86 83 Option model FX volatility 0.7% 50% 5% 11% 0.6% 25% 7% 12% other 135 129 Equity derivatives: Model Equity long-dated single stock options 158 359 Option model volatility 7% 84% 15% 44% 11% 83% 16% 36% other 96 329 Credit derivatives: other 25 27 Other portfolios 3,832 Model Credit Discounted structured certificates 3,014 volatility 2% 4% 2% 4% 3% 4% 3% 4% cash flow EM corporate debt 85 Market proxy Bid quotes 100 100 100 100 96 144 113 113 3 other 733 At 31 Dec 2017 12,388 6,144 1 The core range of inputs is the estimated range within which 90% of the inputs fall.
2 Collateralised loan obligation collateralised debt obligation.
3 Other includes a range of smaller asset holdings.
Private equity including strategic investments Given the bespoke nature of the analysis in respect of each holding, it is not practical to quote a range of key unobservable inputs.
Prepayment rates Prepayment rates are a measure of the anticipated future speed at which a loan portfolio will be repaid in advance of the due date.
They vary according to the nature of the loan portfolio and expectations of future market conditions, and may be estimated using a variety of evidence, such as prepayment rates implied from proxy observable security prices, current or historical prepayment rates and macroeconomic modelling.
Market proxy Market proxy pricing may be used for an instrument when specific market pricing is not available but there is evidence from instruments with common characteristics.
In some cases it might be possible to identify a specific proxy, but more generally evidence across a wider range of instruments will be used to understand the factors that influence current market pricing and the manner of that influence.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 213 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Volatility Volatility is a measure of the anticipated future variability of a market price.
It varies by underlying reference market price, and by strike and maturity of the option.
Certain volatilities, typically those of a longer-dated nature, are unobservable and are estimated from observable data.
The range of unobservable volatilities reflects the wide variation in volatility inputs by reference market price.
The core range is significantly narrower than the full range because these examples with extreme volatilities occur relatively rarely within the HSBC portfolio.
Correlation Correlation is a measure of the inter-relationship between two market prices and is expressed as a number between minus one and one.
It is used to value more complex instruments where the payout is dependent upon more than one market price.
There is a wide range of instruments for which correlation is an input, and consequently a wide range of both same-asset correlations and cross-asset correlations is used.
In general, the range of same-asset correlations will be narrower than the range of cross-asset correlations.
Unobservable correlations may be estimated based upon a range of evidence, including consensus pricing services, HSBC trade prices, proxy correlations and examination of historical price relationships.
The range of unobservable correlations quoted in the table reflects the wide variation in correlation inputs by market price pair.
Credit spread Credit spread is the premium over a benchmark interest rate required by the market to accept lower credit quality.
In a discounted cash flow model, the credit spread increases the discount factors applied to future cash flows, thereby reducing the value of an asset.
Credit spreads may be implied from market prices and may not be observable inmore illiquid markets.
Inter-relationships between key unobservable inputs Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments may not be independent of each other.
As described above, market variables may be correlated.
This correlation typically reflects the manner in which different markets tend to react to macroeconomic or other events.
Furthermore, the effect of changing market variables on the HSBC portfolio will depend on HSBCs net risk position in respect of each variable.
HSBC Holdings Basis of valuing HSBC Holdings financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 2017 2016 $m $m Valuation technique using observable inputs: Level 2 Assets at 31 Dec derivatives 2,388 2,148 financial investments in HSBC undertakings 4,264 3,590 loans and advances to HSBC undertakings designated at fair value 11,944 Liabilities at 31 Dec designated at fair value 30,890 30,113 derivatives 3,082 5,025 214 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 12 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation Fair value Significant Quoted market Observable unobservable Carrying price inputs inputs amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2017 Assets Loans and advances to banks 90,393 87,384 3,007 90,391 Loans and advances to customers 962,964 20,029 944,176 964,205 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 201,553 200,012 1,526 201,538 Financial investments debt securities 52,919 1,363 52,707 17 54,087 Liabilities Deposits by banks 69,922 69,862 30 69,892 Customer accounts 1,364,462 1,353,017 11,608 1,364,625 Repurchase agreements non-trading 130,002 1 129,995 129,996 Debt securities in issue 64,546 65,138 65,138 Subordinated liabilities 19,826 23,740 355 24,095 At 31 Dec 2016 Assets Loans and advances to banks 88,126 85,568 2,572 88,140 Loans and advances to customers 861,504 15,670 845,894 861,564 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 160,974 159,504 1,527 161,031 Financial investments debt securities 46,923 1,190 46,014 19 47,223 Liabilities Deposits by banks 59,939 59,883 42 59,925 Customer accounts 1,272,386 1,262,540 10,136 1,272,676 Repurchase agreements non-trading 88,958 88,939 88,939 Debt securities in issue 65,915 66,386 66,386 Subordinated liabilities 20,984 23,264 292 23,556 Other financial instruments not carried at fair value are typically short-term in nature and reprice to current market rates frequently.
Accordingly, their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
They include cash and balances at central banks, items in the course of collection from and transmission to other banks, Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness and Hong Kong currency notes in circulation, all of which are measured at amortised cost.
Valuation Fair value is an estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
It does not reflect the economic benefits and costs that HSBC expects to flow from an instruments cash flow over its expected future life.
Our valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values for which no observable market prices are available may differ from those of other companies.
Loans and advances to banks and customers To determine the fair value of loans and advances to banks and customers, loans are segregated, as far as possible, into portfolios of similar characteristics.
Fair values are based on observable market transactions, when available.
When they are unavailable, fair values are estimated using valuation models incorporating a range of input assumptions.
These assumptions may include: value estimates from third-party brokers reflecting over-the-counter trading activity: forward-looking discounted cash flow models, taking account of expected customer prepayment rates, using assumptions that HSBC believes are consistent with those that would be used by market participants in valuing such loans: new business rates estimates for similar loans: and trading inputs from other market participants including HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 215 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements observed primary and secondary trades.
From time to time, we may engage a third-party valuation specialist to measure the fair value of a pool of loans.
The fair value of loans reflects impairments at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants expectations of credit losses over the life of the loans, and the fair value effect of repricing between origination and the balance sheet date.
For impaired loans, fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows over the time period they are expected to be recovered.
Financial investments The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices.
The fair values of unlisted financial investments are determined using valuation techniques that incorporate the prices and future earnings streams of equivalent quoted securities.
Deposits by banks and customer accounts The fair values of on-demand deposits are approximated by their carrying value.
For deposits with longer-term maturities, fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Fair values are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements non-trading Fair values approximate carrying amounts as balances are generally short dated.
HSBC Holdings The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purposes of measurement and disclosure are described above.
Fair values of HSBC Holdings financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 2017 2016 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 1 1 amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Assets at 31 Dec Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 76,627 78,534 77,421 79,985 Liabilities at 31 Dec Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,571 2,571 2,157 2,156 Debt securities in issue 34,258 36,611 21,805 23,147 Subordinated liabilities 15,877 19,596 15,189 17,715 1 Fair values were determined using valuation techniques with observable inputs Level 2.
13 Financial assets designated at fair value 2017 2016 $m $m Securities 29,456 24,677 treasury and other eligible bills 606 204 debt securities 4,090 4,189 equity securities 24,760 20,284 Loans and advances to banks and customers 8 79 At 31 Dec 29,464 24,756 1 Securities 2017 2016 Footnotes $m $m 2 US Treasury and US Government agencies 104 UK Government 17 41 Hong Kong Government 64 16 Other governments 1,247 747 3 Asset-backed securities 2 20 Corporate debt and other securities 3,366 3,465 Equities 24,760 20,284 At 31 Dec 29,456 24,677 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of $1,621m 2016: $1,766m, of which $0.4m 2016:$19m are guaranteed by various governments.
Derivative assets and liabilities decreased during 2017, reflecting changes in yield curve movements and changes in foreign exchange rates.
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries Notional contract amount Fair value Assets Fair value Liabilities Trading Hedging Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Foreign exchange 20,484 1,120 588 588 1,330 110 1,440 Interest rate 41,061 25,294 1,364 436 1,800 678 964 1,642 At 31 Dec 2017 61,545 26,414 1,952 436 2,388 2,008 1,074 3,082 Foreign exchange 23,442 1,120 223 223 3,201 239 3,440 Interest rate 26,858 24,356 1,478 447 1,925 639 946 1,585 At 31 Dec 2016 50,300 25,476 1,701 447 2,148 3,840 1,185 5,025 Use of derivatives For details regarding use of derivatives, see page 107 under Market Risk.
Trading derivatives Most of HSBCs derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities.
Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks.
Trading activities include market-making and risk management.
Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenues based on spread and volume.
Risk management activity is undertaken to manage the risk arising from client transactions, with the principal purpose of retaining client margin.
Other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives.
Substantially all of HSBC Holdings derivatives entered into with subsidiaries are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities designated at fair value.
Derivatives valued using models with unobservable inputs The difference between the fair value at initial recognition the transaction price and the value that would have been derived had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is as follows: HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 217 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Unamortised balance of derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable inputs 2017 2016 Footnote $m $m Unamortised balance at 1 Jan 99 97 Deferral on new transactions 191 156 Recognised in the income statement during the year: 187 140 amortisation 85 70 subsequent to unobservable inputs becoming observable 2 5 maturity, termination or offsetting derivative 100 65 Exchange differences 10 13 Other 7 1 1 Unamortised balance at 31 Dec 106 99 1 This amount is yet to be recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Hedge accounting derivatives Fair value hedges HSBCs fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate long-term financial instruments due to movements in market interest rates.
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives designated as fair value hedges by product type 2017 2016 Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Notional Assets Liabilities Notional Assets Liabilities $m $m $m $m $m $m HSBC Foreign exchange 1,027 23 618 10 22 Interest rate 112,714 1,020 2,744 124,361 1,078 3,726 At 31 Dec 113,741 1,020 2,767 124,979 1,088 3,748 HSBC Holdings Foreign exchange 1,120 110 1,120 239 Interest rate 25,294 436 964 24,356 447 946 At 31 Dec 26,414 436 1,074 25,476 447 1,185 Gains or losses arising from fair value hedges 2017 2016 2015 $m $m $m HSBC Gains losses : on hedging instruments 621 439 40 on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 617 462 51 Year ended 31 Dec 4 23 11 HSBC Holdings Gains losses : on hedging instruments 57 909 4 on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 23 926 6 Year ended 31 Dec 34 17 2 Cash flow hedges HSBCs cash flow hedges consist principally of interest rate swaps, futures and cross-currency swaps that are used to protect against exposures to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities which bear interest at variable rates or which are expected to be re-funded or reinvested in the future.
The amounts and timing of future cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults.
The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios over time form the basis for identifying gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions.
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges by product held by HSBC 2017 2016 Notional Assets Liabilities Notional Assets Liabilities $m $m $m $m $m $m Foreign Exchange 22,741 424 759 25,663 1,081 939 Interest rate 65,575 345 298 90,645 909 355 At 31 Dec 88,316 769 1,057 116,308 1,990 1,294 218 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Forecast principal balances on which interest cash flows are expected to arise 3 months More than 3 months 5 years or less or less but less than 1 year but more than 1 year More than 5 years $m $m $m $m Net cash inflows outflows exposure Assets 70,769 65,771 44,347 956 Liabilities 7,729 7,017 4,992 536 At 31 Dec 2017 63,040 58,754 39,355 420 Net cash inflows outflows exposure Assets 83,472 79,749 57,553 2,750 Liabilities 13,169 12,977 11,761 1,502 At 31 Dec 2016 70,303 66,772 45,792 1,248 This table reflects the interest rate repricing profile of the underlying hedged items.
During the year to 31 December 2017, a loss of $5m 2016: $5m loss: 2015: $15m gain was recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain consolidated net investments.
Hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with foreign currency borrowings.
At 31 December 2017, the fair values of outstanding financial instruments designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations were assets of $4m 2016: $137m, liabilities of $71m 2016: $7m and notional contract values of $5,000m 2016: $3,544m.
Ineffectiveness recognised in Net trading income in the year ended 31 December 2017 was nil 2016: nil: 2015: nil.
15 Financial investments Carrying amount of financial investments 2017 2016 Footnote $m $m Available for sale securities at fair value 336,157 389,874 treasury and other eligible bills 78,851 99,226 debt securities 253,389 285,981 equity securities 3,917 4,667 Held to maturity securities at amortised cost 52,919 46,923 1 debt securities 52,919 46,923 At 31 Dec 389,076 436,797 1 Fair value $54.1bn 2016: $47.2bn.
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Government agencies and sponsored entities.
The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31December 2017 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at thatdate.
The yields do not include the effect ofrelated derivatives.
16 Assets pledged, collateral received and assets transferred Assets pledged Financial assets pledged as collateral 2017 2016 $m $m Treasury bills and other eligible securities 10,183 7,151 Loans and advances to banks 14,518 17,444 Loans and advances to customers 68,336 74,109 Debt securities 96,245 80,063 Equity securities 33,209 2,655 Other 2,743 1,838 Assets pledged at 31 Dec 225,234 183,260 Assets pledged as collateral include all assets categorised as encumbered in the disclosure on page 67 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 2017.
The amount of assets pledged to secure liabilities may be greater than the book value of assets utilised as collateral.
For example, in the case of securitisations and covered bonds, the amount of liabilities issued plus mandatory  is less than the book value of the pool of assets available for use as collateral.
This is also the case where assets are placed with a custodian or a settlement agent which has a floating charge over all the assets placed to secure any liabilities under settlement accounts.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions including, where relevant, standard securities lending and borrowing, repurchase agreements and derivative margining.
HSBC places both cash and non-cash collateral in relation to derivative transactions.
Financial assets pledged as collateral which the counterparty has the right to sell or repledge 2017 2016 $m $m Trading assets 70,117 37,141 Financial investments 13,581 4,044 At 31 Dec 83,698 41,185 Collateral received The fair value of assets accepted as collateral, relating primarily to standard securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements, swaps of securities and derivative margining, that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default was $387,678m 2016: $250,919m.
The fair value of any such collateral sold or repledged was $243,531m 2016: $149,185m.
HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements and derivative margining.
220 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Assets transferred The assets pledged include transfers to third parties that do not qualify for derecognition, notably secured borrowings such as debt securities held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements and equity securities lent under securities lending agreements, as well as swaps of equity and debt securities.
For secured borrowings, the transferred asset collateral continues to be recognised in full and a related liability, reflecting the Groups obligation to repurchase the assets for a fixed price at a future date is also recognised on the balance sheet.
Where securities are swapped, the transferred asset continues to be recognised in full.
There is no associated liability as the non-cash collateral received is not recognised on the balance sheet.
The Group is unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the transaction, and remains exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged assets.
With the exception of Other sales in the table below, the counterpartys recourse is not limited to the transferred assets.
Transferred financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities Carrying amount of: Fair value of: Transferred Associated Transferred Associated Net assets liabilities assets liabilities position $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2017 Repurchase agreements 55,510 52,093 Securities lending agreements 33,878 3,324 Other sales recourse to transferred assets only 2,387 2,388 2,377 2,378 1 At 31 Dec 2016 Repurchase agreements 40,364 39,568 Securities lending agreements 3,324 2,655 Other sales recourse to transferred assets only 2,441 2,466 2,455 2,458 3 17 Interests in associates and joint ventures Associates At 31 December 2017, the carrying amount of HSBCs interests in associates was $22,577m 2016: $19,874m.
Principal associates of HSBC 2017 2016 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 1 1 amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Bank of Communications Co. Limited 18,057 10,491 15,765 10,207 The Saudi British Bank 3,618 4,320 3,280 3,999 1 Principal associates are listed on recognised stock exchanges.
The fair values are based on the quoted market prices of the shares held Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
At 31 Dec 2017 Country of incorporation and HSBCs principal place of Principal interest Footnote business activity % 1 Bank of Communications Co. Limited PRC Banking services 19.03 The Saudi British Bank Saudi Arabia Banking services 40.00 1 Peoples Republic of China.
A list of all associates and joint ventures is set out on page 258.
Bank of Communications Co. Limited The Groups significant influence in Bank of Communications Co. Limited BoCom was established via representation on BoComs board of directors and a technical cooperation and exchange programme.
Under this programme, a number of HSBC staff have been seconded to assist in the maintenance of BoComs financial and operating policies.
Impairment testing At 31 December 2017, the fair value of HSBCs investment in BoCom had been below the carrying amount for approximately 68 months.
As a result, the Group performed an impairment test on the carrying amount of the investment in BoCom, which confirmed there was no impairment at 31December 2017.
At 31 Dec 2017 At 31 Dec 2016 Fair Fair VIU Carrying value value VIU Carrying value value $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn Bank of Communications Co. Limited 18.3 18.1 10.5 16.1 15.8 10.2 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 221 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Basis of recoverable amount The impairment test was performed by comparing the recoverable amount of BoCom, determined by a value in use VIU calculation, with its carrying amount.
The VIU calculation uses discounted cash flow projections based on managements estimates of earnings.
Cash flows beyond the short to medium term are extrapolated in perpetuity using a long-term growth rate to derive a terminal value, which comprises the majority of VIU.
An imputed capital maintenance charge CMC is calculated to reflect expected regulatory capital requirements, and is deducted from forecast cash flows.
The principal inputs to the CMC calculation include estimates of asset growth, the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets, and the expected minimum regulatory capital requirements.
An increase in the CMC as a result of a change to these principal inputs would reduce VIU.
Additionally, management considers other factors including qualitative factors to ensure that the inputs to the VIU calculation remain appropriate.
Significant management judgement is required in estimating the future cash flows of BoCom.
Key assumptions in value in use calculation We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation: Long-term profit growth rate of 3% 2016: 5% for periods after 2020, which does not exceed forecast GDP growth in mainland China and is within the range forecast by external analysts.
Long-term asset growth rate of 3% 2016: 4% for periods after 2020, which is the rate that assets are expected to grow to achieve long-term profit growth of 3%.
Discount rate of 11.85% 2016: 13.0%, which is based on a capital asset pricing model CAPM calculation for BoCom, using market data.
Management also compares rates derived from the CAPM with discount rates from external sources.
The discount rate used was within the range of 10.2% to 13.4% 2016: 10.2% to 15.0% indicated by external sources.
Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances: a range from 0.66% to 0.82% 2016: 0.72% to 0.87% in the short to medium term, largely based on forecasts disclosed by external analysts.
For periods after 2020, the ratio is 0.70% 2016: 0.70%, slightly higher than the historical average.
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets: 62% 2016: 62% for all forecast periods.
This is consistent with the forecasts disclosed by external analysts.
Cost-income ratio: ranges from 37.1% to 38.0% 2016: 40.0% in the short to medium term.
This is slightly higher than the forecasts disclosed by external analysts.
The long-term profit growth rate, long-term asset growth rate and discount rate assumptions were updated in 2017 to better align with market practice when setting long-term assumptions in VIU calculations.
The long-term profit growth rate was set at the lower end of the range forecast by external analysts and there was a corresponding change to the long-term asset growth rate.
These changes reduced managements uncertainty in respect of estimated future cash flows and accordingly the discount rate was set based on CAPM with no adjustment for uncertainty in future cash flows.
The following table shows the change to each key assumption in the VIU calculation that on its own would reduce the headroom tonil.
Key assumption Changes to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil Long-term profit growth rate Decrease by 11 basis points Long-term asset growth rate Increase by 10 basis points Discount rate Increase by 13 basis points Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances Increase by 2 basis points Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets Increase by 63 basis points Cost-income ratio Increase by 46 basis points The following table illustrates the effect on VIU of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions.
This reflects the sensitivity of the VIU to each key assumption on its own, and it is possible that more than one favourable and or unfavourable change will occur at the same time.
The selected rates of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions is largely based on external analysts forecasts which can change period to period.
Sensitivity of VIU to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions Favourable change Unfavourable change Increase Decrease in VIU VIU In VIU VIU bps $bn $bn bps $bn $bn At 31 Dec 2017 Long-term profit growth rate 200 6.6 24.9 18.3 Long-term asset growth rate 20 0.5 18.9 200 7.1 11.2 Discount rate 35 0.7 19.1 65 1.2 17.1 2017-20: 0.71% 2017-20: 0.90% Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances 2021 onwards: 0.70% 0.1 18.5 2021 onwards: 0.77% 1.3 17.0 Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets 60 0.2 18.6 30 0.1 18.2 Cost-income ratio 173 1.5 19.8 18.3 At 31 Dec 2016 Long-term profit growth rate 16.1 150 3.3 12.8 Long-term asset growth rate 80 1.8 17.8 16.1 Discount rate 100 2.3 18.4 16.1 2016-19: 0.93% Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances 16.1 1.1 15.0 2020 onwards: 0.80% Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets 30 0.1 16.2 170 0.6 15.5 Cost income ratio 170 0.9 17.0 250 1.4 14.7 222 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Considering the interrelationship of the changes set out in the table above, management estimates that the reasonably possible range of VIU is $14.7bn to $21.1bn 2016: $10.8bn to $19.0bn.
Selected financial information of BoCom The statutory accounting reference date of BoCom is 31 December.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, HSBC included the associates results on the basis of financial statements for the 12 months ended 30 September 2017, taking into account changes in the subsequent period from 1 October 2017 to 31 December 2017 that would have materially affected the results.
Selected balance sheet information of BoCom At 30 Sep 2017 2016 $m $m Cash and balances at central banks 146,029 137,844 Loans and advances to banks and other financial institutions 120,403 101,436 Loans and advances to customers 662,706 566,126 Other financial assets 386,067 311,207 Other assets 58,202 48,922 Total assets 1,373,407 1,165,535 Deposits by banks and other financial institutions 366,993 297,442 Customer accounts 747,882 680,915 Other financial liabilities 123,751 69,954 Other liabilities 32,568 27,860 Total liabilities 1,271,194 1,076,171 Total equity 102,213 89,364 Reconciliation of BoComs total shareholders equity to the carrying amount in HSBCs consolidated financial statements At 30 Sep 2017 2016 $m $m HSBCs share of total shareholders equity 17,551 15,285 Goodwill and other intangible assets 506 480 Carrying amount 18,057 15,765 Selected income statement information of BoCom For the 12 months ended 30 Sep 2017 2016 $m $m Net interest income 19,080 20,614 Net fee and commission income 5,698 5,493 Loan impairment charges 4,286 4,284 Depreciation and amortisation 1,342 1,216 Tax expense 2,234 2,800 Profit for the year 10,288 10,151 Other comprehensive income 624 875 Total comprehensive income 9,664 11,026 Dividends received from BoCom 565 580 Summarised aggregate financial information for all associates excluding BoCom 2017 2016 $m $m Carrying amount 4,520 4,109 HSBCs share of: total assets 20,625 20,757 total liabilities 16,119 16,661 revenues 1,051 923 profit or loss from continuing operations 487 454 Joint ventures At 31 December 2017, the carrying amount of HSBCs interests in joint ventures was $167m 2016: $155m.
Associates and joint ventures For the year ended 31 December 2017, HSBCs share of associates and joint ventures tax on profit was $440m 2016: $542m.
This is included within Share of profit in associates and joint ventures in the Consolidated income statement.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 223 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Movements in interests in associates and joint ventures 2017 2016 Footnote $m $m At 1 Jan 20,029 19,139 Additions 60 76 Disposals 67 25 Share of results 2,375 2,354 Dividends 740 751 Exchange differences 1,144 1,115 Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 43 54 Other movements 14 297 1 At 31 Dec 22,744 20,029 1 Includes goodwill of $521m 2016: $488m.
18 Investments in subsidiaries Principal subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings At 31 Dec 2017 Country of incorporation or HSBCs registration interest % Share class Europe England and 1 Ordinary and Preferred Ordinary, $0.01 Non-cumulative HSBC Bank plc Wales 100 third Dollar Preference Shares HSBC France France 99.99 5 Actions HSBC Assurances Vie France France 99.99 287.50 EUR Ordinary shares HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA Switzerland 100 CHF1,000 Ordinary HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG Germany 80.67 Stckaktien no par value Asia Hang Seng Bank Limited Hong Kong 62.14 HK$5 Ordinary HSBC Bank Australia Limited Australia 100 Ordinary no par value 4 HSBC Bank China Company Limited PRC 100 CNY1 Ordinary HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad Malaysia 100 RM0.50 Ordinary HSBC Bank Taiwan Limited Taiwan 100 TWD10 Ordinary HSBC Life International Limited Bermuda 100 HK$1 Ordinary The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 1 2 Limited Hong Kong 100 Ordinary no par value, CIP and NIP HSBC Bank Singapore Limited Singapore 100 SGD100 Ordinary Middle East and North Africa United Arab 3 HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Emirates 100 $1 Ordinary and $1 CRP HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E. Egypt 94.54 EGP84 Ordinary North America HSBC Bank Canada Canada 100 Common no par value and Preference no par value HSBC Bank USA, N. A. USA 100 $100 Common and $0.01 Preference HSBC Securities USA Inc. USA 100 $0.05 Common Latin America HSBC Mexico, S. A. Institucin fide Banca Mltiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC Mexico 99.99 MXN2 Ordinary 1 Cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares.
Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in Notes 24 Debt securities in issue, 27 Subordinated liabilities and 30 Non-controlling interests, respectively.
A list of all related undertakings is set out on pages 252 to 261.
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Life International Limited, which operates mainly in Hong Kong.
HSBC is structured as a network of regional banks and locally incorporated regulated banking entities.
Each bank is separately capitalised in accordance with applicable prudential requirements and maintains a capital buffer consistent with the Groups risk appetite for the relevant country or region.
HSBCs capital management process is incorporated in the Annual Operating Plan, which is approved by the Board.
HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary.
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings issuance of equity and non-equity capital, and by profit retention.
The reduction in HSBC Holdings investments in subsidiaries of $2,920m during the year 2016: $1,920m is driven by $4,070m return of capital from subsidiaries 2016: $3,898m, $242m intra-group disposals 2016: $0m, $352m of other movements including provisions 2016: $95m partially offset by $1,744m of new capital injections 2016: $2,073m.
224 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a balance between the composition of its capital and its investment in subsidiaries.
Subject to this, there is no current or foreseen impediment to HSBC Holdings ability to provide funding for such investments.
During 2017, consistent with the Groups capital plan, the Groups subsidiaries did not experience any significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to planned dividends or payments.
However, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exchange controls, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance.
The amount of guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other Group entities is set out in Note 32.
Information on structured entities consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights is included in Note 19 Structured entities.
In each of these cases, HSBC controls and consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests 2017 2016 Hang Seng Bank Limited Proportion of ownership interests and voting rights held by non-controlling interests 37.86% 37.86% Place of business Hong Kong Hong Kong $m $m Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 997 814 Accumulated non-controlling interests of the subsidiary 6,233 5,792 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 594 811 Summarised financial information: total assets 186,638 175,242 total liabilities 169,275 159,035 net operating income before loan impairment 4,556 3,937 profit for the year 2,632 2,148 total comprehensive income for the year 2,895 2,044 19 Structured entities HSBC is mainly involved with both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities through the securitisation of financial assets, conduits and investment funds, established either by HSBC or a third party.
Consolidated structured entities Total assets of HSBCs consolidated structured entities, split by entity type HSBC Conduits Securitisations managed funds Other Total $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn At 31 Dec 2017 12.9 4.8 7.0 3.2 27.9 At 31 Dec 2016 15.8 5.7 4.8 3.7 30.0 Conduits HSBC has established and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits SICs and multi-seller conduits.
Securities investment conduits The SICs purchase highly rated ABSs to facilitate tailored investment opportunities.
Solitaire At 31 December 2017, Solitaire, HSBCs principal SIC held $3.2bn of ABSs 2016: $4.7bn.
These are included within the disclosures of ABSs on page 100.
It is currently funded entirely by commercial paper CP issued to HSBC.
Although HSBC continues to provide a liquidity facility, Solitaire has no need to draw on it as long as HSBC purchases its issued CP, which HSBC intends to do for the foreseeable future.
Mazarin, Barion and Malachite All three SICs are now funded by medium-term notes, and are no longer funded by repurchase agreements.
HSBCs primary exposure to Mazarin, Barion and Malachite is represented by the amortised cost of the debt required to support the non-cash assets of the vehicles.
For all three SICs first loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by these vehicles, which are held substantially by third parties.
Multi-seller conduit HSBCs multi-seller conduit was established to provide access to flexible market-based sources of finance for its clients.
Currently, HSBC bears risk equal to the transaction-specific facility offered to the multi-seller conduit, amounting to $15.7bn at 31December 2017 2016: $15.2bn restated.
First loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit enhancements.
A layer of secondary loss protection is provided by HSBC in the form of programme-wide enhancement facilities.
Securitisations HSBC uses structured entities to securitise customer loans and advances it originates in order to diversify its sources of funding for asset origination and capital efficiency purposes.
The loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to the structured entities for cash or synthetically through credit default swaps, and the structured entities issue debt securities to investors.
HSBC managed funds HSBC has established a number of money market and non-money market funds.
Where it is deemed to be acting as principal rather than agent in its role as investment manager, HSBC controls these funds.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 225 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Other HSBC has also entered into a number of transactions in the normal course of business which include asset and structured finance transactions where it has control of the structured entity.
In addition, HSBC is deemed to control anumber of third-party managed funds through its involvement as a principal in the funds.
Unconsolidated structured entities The term unconsolidated structured entities refers to all structured entities not controlled by HSBC.
The Group entersinto transactions with unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer transactions and for specific investment opportunities.
Nature and risks associated with HSBC interests in unconsolidated structured entities HSBC Non-HSBC Securitisations managed funds managed funds Other Total Total asset values of the entities $m 0 500 78 321 930 210 1,539 500 2,000 6 56 578 3 643 2,000 5,000 17 235 252 5,000 25,000 2 10 104 1 117 25,000 2 11 13 Number of entities at 31 Dec 2017 86 406 1,858 214 2,564 $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn Total assets in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 4.0 9.1 9.3 4.1 26.5 trading assets 0.2 0.2 2.4 2.8 financial assets designated at fair value 8.0 8.3 16.3 loans and advances to banks 0.1 0.1 loans and advances to customers 4.0 1.1 5.1 financial investments 0.9 0.8 0.1 1.8 other assets 0.4 0.4 Total liabilities in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 0.3 0.3 other liabilities 0.3 0.3 Other off balance sheet commitments 0.1 2.2 0.3 2.6 HSBCs maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2017 4.0 9.2 11.5 4.4 29.1 Total asset values of the entities $m 0 500 93 374 1,104 95 1,666 500 2,000 10 43 498 5 556 2,000 5,000 22 187 2 211 5,000 25,000 8 72 2 82 25,000 1 4 1 6 Number of entities at 31 Dec 2016 103 448 1,865 105 2,521 $bn $bn $bn $bn $bn Total assets in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 2.4 7.1 8.3 6.2 24.0 trading assets 0.4 0.1 2.1 2.6 financial assets designated at fair value 5.9 7.5 13.4 loans and advances to banks 0.4 0.4 loans and advances to customers 2.4 3.2 5.6 financial investments 0.8 0.7 0.2 1.7 other assets 0.3 0.3 Total liabilities in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 0.2 0.2 other liabilities 0.2 0.2 Other off balance sheet commitments 2.7 0.1 2.8 HSBCs maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2016 2.4 7.1 11.0 6.3 26.8 The maximum exposure to loss from HSBCs interests in unconsolidated structured entities represents the maximum loss it could incur as a result of its involvement with these entities regardless of the probability of the loss being incurred.
For commitments, guarantees and written credit default swaps, the maximum exposure to loss is the notional amount of potential future losses.
For retained and purchased investments in and loans to unconsolidated structured entities, the maximum exposure to loss is the carrying value of these interests at the balance sheet reporting date.
The maximum exposure to loss is stated gross of the effects of hedging and collateral arrangements entered into to mitigate HSBCs exposure to loss.
Securitisations HSBC has interests in unconsolidated securitisation vehicles through holding notes issued by these entities.
In addition, HSBC has investments in ABSs issued by third-party structured entities as set out on page 100.
226 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 HSBC managed funds HSBC establishes and manages money market funds and non-money market investment funds to provide customers with investment opportunities.
Further information on funds under management is provided on page 60.
HSBC, as fund manager, may be entitled to receive management and performance fees based on the assets under management.
HSBC may also retain units in these funds.
Non-HSBC managed funds HSBC purchases and holds units of third-party managed funds in order to facilitate business and meet customer needs.
In addition to entities, asset and liability classes disclosed above HSBC enters into derivative contracts with Non-HSBC managed funds.
These interests arise in the normal course of business for the facilitation of third-party transactions and risk management solutions.
Note14 provides information on derivatives entered into by HSBC.
Other HSBC has established structured entities in the normal course of business, such as structured credit transactions for customers, to provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance transactions.
In addition to entities, asset and liability classes disclosed above HSBC enters into derivative contracts with Other Structured Entities.
HSBC sponsored structured entities The amount of assets transferred to and income received from such sponsored entities during 2017 and 2016 were not significant.
20 Goodwill and intangible assets 2017 2016 Footnote $m $m Goodwill 13,588 12,330 Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 6,610 6,502 1 Other intangible assets 3,255 2,514 At 31 Dec 23,453 21,346 1 Included within other intangible assets is internally generated software with a net carrying value of $2,641m 2016: $1,982m.
Movement analysis of goodwill 2017 2016 $m $m Gross amount At 1 Jan 21,445 22,187 Exchange differences 1,490 562 Reclassified to held for sale 183 Other 33 3 At 31 Dec 22,902 21,445 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 Jan 9,115 5,893 Impairment losses 3,240 Exchange differences 327 Other 128 18 At 31 Dec 9,314 9,115 Net carrying amount at 31 Dec 13,588 12,330 Impairment testing The Groups impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash generating unit CGU is performed as at 1 July each year.
A review for indicators of impairment is undertaken at each subsequent quarter-end and as at 31 December 2017.
No indicators of impairment were identified as part of these reviews.
Basis of the recoverable amount The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its value in use VIU at each respective testing date for 2016 and 2017.
For each CGU, the VIU is calculated by discounting managements cash flow projections for the CGU.
The key assumptions used in the VIU calculation for each significant CGU are discussed below.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 227 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Key assumptions in VIU calculation Nominal Nominal growth rate growth rate beyond initial beyond initial cash flow Goodwill at Discount Goodwill at Discount cash flow 1 Jul 2017 rate projections 1 Jul 2016 rate projections Footnote $m % % $m % % Cash-generating unit Europe RBWM 3,508 8.9 3.7 3,446 8.9 3.6 CMB 2,570 9.9 3.6 2,517 9.7 3.8 Global 1 GB&M 4,000 10.6 5.8 n a n a n a 1 Subsequent to the 1 July 2016 annual test the CGU for Global Banking and Markets was amended from a regional to a global basis.
The first formal impairment test for this CGU was performed as at 1 July 2017.
At 1 July 2017, aggregate goodwill of $3,059m 1 July 2016: $3,025m had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered individually significant.
The Groups CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill.
Managements judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU The cash flow projections for each CGU are based on plans approved by the GMB.
For the goodwill impairment test conducted at 1 July 2017, managements cash flow projections until the end of 2021 were used.
Discount rate The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a capital asset pricing model CAPM.
CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
These variables are based on the markets assessment of the economic variables and managements judgement.
The discount rates for each CGU are refined to reflect the rates of inflation for the countries within which the CGU operate.
In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with cost of capital rates produced by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets.
Nominal long-term growth rate The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of business units making up the CGUs.
These growth rates reflect GDP and inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates or derives revenue from.
Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU At 1 July 2017, none of the CGUs were sensitive to reasonably possible adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the recoverable amount.
In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, management considers the available evidence in respect of each input to the model such as the external range of discount rates observable, historical performance against forecast and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections.
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business When calculating the present value of in-force insurance business PVIF, expected cash flows are projected after adjusting for a variety of assumptions made by each insurance operation to reflect local market conditions and managements judgement of future trends, and uncertainty in the underlying assumptions is reflected by applying margins as opposed to a cost of capital methodology.
Variations in actual experience and changes to assumptions can contribute to volatility in the results of the insurance business.
Actuarial Control Committees of each key insurance entity meet on a quarterly basis to review and approve PVIF assumptions.
All changes to non-economic assumptions, economic assumptions that are not observable and model methodology must be approved by the Actuarial Control Committee.
Movements in PVIF 2017 2016 Footnotes $m $m PVIF at 1 Jan 6,502 5,685 Change in PVIF of long-term insurance business 24 902 value of new business written during the year 919 900 1 expected return 599 532 assumption changes and experience variances see below 280 513 other adjustments 16 21 2 Transfer of assets classified as held for sale 45 Exchange differences and other 84 40 PVIF at 31 Dec 6,610 6,502 1 Expected return represents the unwinding of the discount rate and reversal of expected cash flows for the period.
2 Relates to the Brazilian insurance operations which were classified as held for sale in 2015.
228 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Assumption changes and experience variances Included within this line item are: $ 98 m 2016: $279m, directly offsetting regulatory-driven changes to the valuation of liabilities under insurance contracts.
$ 141 m 2016: $301m, reflecting the future expected sharing of returns with policyholders on contracts with discretionary participation features DPF, to the extent this sharing is not already included in liabilities under insurance contracts.
$ 41 m 2016: $ 67 m, driven by other assumptions changes and experience variances.
Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations Economic assumptions are set in a way that is consistent with observable market values.
The valuation of PVIF is sensitive to observed market movements and the impact of such changes is included in the sensitivities presented below.
2017 2016 1 1 Hong Kong France Hong Kong France % % % % Weighted average risk-free rate 2.02 1.50 2.09 0.99 Weighted average risk discount rate 6.20 2.20 6.34 1.84 Expense inflation 3.00 1.48 3.00 1.66 1 For 2017, the calculation of Frances PVIF assumes a risk discount rate of 2.20% 2016: 1.84% plus a risk margin of $80m 2016: $101m.
Sensitivity to changes in economic assumptions The Group sets the risk discount rate applied to the PVIF calculation by starting from a risk-free rate curve and adding explicit allowances for risks not reflected in the best estimate cash flow modelling.
Where the insurance operations provide options and guarantees to policyholders the cost of these options and guarantees is an explicit reduction to PVIF, unless it is already allowed for as an explicit addition to the technical provisions required by regulators.
See page 115 for further details of these guarantees and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
Sensitivity to changes in non-economic assumptions Policyholder liabilities and PVIF are determined by reference to non-economic assumptions including mortality and or morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates.
See page 116 for further details on the impact of changes in non-economic assumptions on our insurance manufacturing operations.
21 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 2017 2016 $m $m Prepayments and accrued income 7,929 7,335 Assets held for sale 781 4,389 Bullion 13,128 15,406 Endorsements and acceptances 9,750 8,574 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts Note 3 2,471 1,820 Employee benefit assets Note 5 8,752 4,714 Other accounts 14,353 12,298 Property, plant and equipment 10,027 9,373 At 31 Dec 67,191 63,909 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets include $30,431m 2016: $26,927m of financial assets, the majority of which are measured at amortised cost.
22 Trading liabilities 2017 2016 Footnotes $m $m 1 Deposits by banks 23,297 24,827 1, 2 Customer accounts 52,595 45,085 3 Other debt securities in issue Note 24 40,734 32,656 Other liabilities net short positions in securities 67,735 51,123 At 31 Dec 184,361 153,691 1 Deposits by banks and Customer accounts include repos, settlement accounts, stock lending, cash collateral and margin accounts relating to trading activities.
2 Structured deposits placed at HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Trust Company Delaware National Association are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a US government agency, up to $250,000 per depositor.
3 Other debt securities in issue comprises structured notes issued by HSBC for which market risks are actively managed as part of trading portfolios.
At 31 December 2017, the cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBCs credit risk was a loss of $543m 2016: gain of $2m.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 229 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 23 Financial liabilities designated at fair value HSBC 2017 2016 $m $m Deposits by banks and customer accounts 145 135 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 5,635 6,002 Debt securities in issue Note 24 64,359 57,112 Subordinated liabilities Note 27 23,831 23,172 Preferred securities Note 27 459 411 At 31 Dec 94,429 86,832 The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $5,343m more than the contractual amount at maturity 2016:$4,413m more.
The cumulative own credit loss recognised was $4,107m 2016: loss of $1,672m.
HSBC Holdings 2017 2016 $m $m Debt securities in issue Note 24 17,496 16,766 Subordinated liabilities Note 27 13,394 13,347 At 31 Dec 30,890 30,113 The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $3,370m more than the contractual amount at maturity 2016: $2,681m more.
The cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of $2,209m 2016: loss of $1,202m.
24 Debt securities in issue HSBC 2017 2016 $m $m Bonds and medium-term notes 146,539 133,721 Other debt securities in issue 23,100 21,962 Total debt securities in issue 169,639 155,683 Included within: trading liabilities Note 22 40,734 32,656 financial liabilities designated at fair value Note 23 64,359 57,112 At 31 Dec 64,546 65,915 HSBC Holdings 2017 2016 $m $m Debt securities 51,754 38,571 Included within: financial liabilities designated at fair value Note 23 17,496 16,766 At 31 Dec 34,258 21,805 25 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 2017 2016 $m $m Accruals and deferred income 11,521 10,770 Endorsements and acceptances 9,746 8,567 Employee benefit liabilities Note 5 2,152 2,681 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 1,286 2,790 Other liabilities 21,202 19,483 At 31 Dec 45,907 44,291 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities include $34,048m 2016: $30,932m of financial liabilities, the majority of which are measured at amortised cost.
Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies whether by way of claim or counterclaim : or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings.
Regulatory matters refers to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC.
Customer remediation refers to HSBCs activities to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with regulations or to treat customers fairly.
Customer remediation is often initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints and or industry developments in sales practices, and is not necessarily initiated by regulatory action.
Further details of customer remediation are set out in this note.
Payment protection insurance $1,174m 2016: $919m relating to the estimated liability for redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of Payment Protection Insurance PPI policies in previous years.
Cumulative provisions made since the Judicial Review ruling in the first half of 2011 amount to $5.1bn, of which $3.9bn had been paid at 31 December 2017.
An increase in provisions of $637m was recognised during the year, primarily reflecting an adjustment to expected future complaint volumes: in light of additional detail becoming available around the likely impact and profile of regulatory media campaigns during the remainder of the period during which complaints could be received.
The estimated liability for redress is calculated on the basis of the total premiums paid by the customer plus simple interest of 8% per annum or the rate inherent in the related loan product where higher.
The basis for calculating the redress liability is the same for single premium and regular premium policies.
Future estimated redress levels are based on the historically observed redress per policy.
A total of 5.4 million PPI policies have been sold since 2000, generating estimated revenues of $3.3bn at 2017.
The gross written premiums on these policies was approximately $4.4bn.
At 31 December 2017, the estimated total complaints expected to be received were 2.2 million, representing 41% of total policies sold.
It is estimated that contact will be made with regard to 2.6 million policies, representing 48% of total policies sold.
This estimate includes inbound complaints as well as the groups proactive contact exercise on certain policies outbound contact.
The following table details the cumulative number of complaints received at 31 December 2017 and the number of claims expected in the future: Cumulative PPI complaints received to 31 December 2017 and future claims expected Cumulative actual to Future 31 Dec 2017 expected Footnotes 1 Inbound complaints 000s of policies 1,555 363 Outbound contact 000s of policies 685 Response rate to outbound contact 44% n a 2 Average uphold rate per claim 76% 84% Average redress per claim $ 2,564 3,029 Complaints to Financial Ombudsman Service 000s of policies 144 26 Average uphold rate per Financial Ombudsman Service claim 40% 47% 1 Excludes invalid claims for which no PPI policy exists.
2 Claims include inbound and responses to outbound contact.
A 100,000 increase decrease in the total inbound complaints would increase decrease the redress provision by approximately $194m at 2017 average exchange rates.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 231 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 27 Subordinated liabilities HSBCs subordinated liabilities 2017 2016 $m $m At amortised cost 19,826 20,984 subordinated liabilities 17,988 19,230 preferred securities 1,838 1,754 Designated at fair value Note 23 24,290 23,583 subordinated liabilities 23,831 23,172 preferred securities 459 411 At 31 Dec 44,116 44,567 Issued by HSBC subsidiaries 15,470 16,860 Issued by HSBC Holdings 28,646 27,707 Subordinated liabilities rank behind senior obligations and generally count towards the capital base of HSBC.
Capital securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator.
If not redeemed at the first call date, coupons payable maystep up orbecome floating rate based on interbank rates.
Oncapital securities other than floating rate notes, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 10.176%.
The balance sheet amounts disclosed below are presented on an IFRS basis and do not reflect the amount that the instruments contribute to regulatory capital principally due to regulatory amortisation and regulatory eligibility limits.
232 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 HSBCs subordinated liabilities in issue 2017 2016 Footnotes First call date Maturity date $m $m 1 Additional tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings plc $900m 10.176% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities, series 2 Jun 2030 892 891 892 891 1 Additional tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc 300m 5.862% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Apr 2020 459 411 700m 5.844% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Nov 2031 946 863 1,405 1,274 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank plc $750m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Jun 1990 750 750 $500m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Sep 1990 500 500 $300m Undated floating rate primary capital notes, series 3 Jun 1992 300 300 $300m 7.65% subordinated notes May 2025 375 372 2 350m 5.00% callable subordinated notes Mar 2018 Mar 2023 496 466 300m 6.50% subordinated notes Jul 2023 405 369 3 350m 5.375% callable subordinated step-up notes Nov 2025 Nov 2030 584 489 500m 5.375% subordinated notes Aug 2033 912 750 225m 6.25% subordinated notes Jan 2041 303 276 600m 4.75% subordinated notes Mar 2046 802 731 5,427 5,003 Tier 2 securities issued by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd $400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes third series Jul 1991 400 400 400 400 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad 4 MYR500m 4.35% subordinated bonds Jun 2017 Jun 2022 112 MYR500m 5.05% subordinated bonds Nov 2022 Nov 2027 123 112 123 224 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC USA Inc. $750m 5.00% subordinated notes Sep 2020 748 748 $250m 7.20% subordinated debentures Jul 2097 221 220 5 Other subordinated liabilities each less than $150m 277 284 1,246 1,252 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank USA, N. A.
$500m 6.00% subordinated notes Aug 2017 498 $1,250m 4.875% subordinated notes Aug 2020 1,236 1,257 $1,000m 5.875% subordinated notes Nov 2034 1,272 1,137 $750m 5.625% subordinated notes Aug 2035 955 862 $700m 7.00% subordinated notes Jan 2039 700 701 4,163 4,455 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Finance Corporation 6 $2,939m 6.676% senior subordinated notes Jan 2021 1,092 2,192 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Canada 4 CAD400m 4.80% subordinated debentures Apr 2017 Apr 2022 299 Other subordinated liabilities each less than $150m Oct 1996 Nov 2083 31 29 31 328 Securities issued by HSBC Mexico, S. A.
7, 8 $300m Non-convertible subordinated obligations Jun 2014 Jun 2019 240 240 7, 9 Other subordinated liability less than $150m 115 198 355 438 Securities issued by other HSBC subsidiaries 5 Other subordinated liabilities each less than $200m 336 403 Subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC subsidiaries at 31 Dec 15,470 16,860 1 See paragraph below, Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc.
2 In January 2018, HSBC gave notice it will redeem these securities.
3 The interest rate payable after November 2025 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.50% percentage points.
4 In 2017 HSBC redeemed these securities.
5 Some securities included here are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC.
6 HSBC tendered for these securities in 2017.
In January 2018 a further tender was conducted.
The principal balance is now $509m.
7 These securities are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC.
8 Approximately $60m of these securities are held by HSBC Holdings.
9 In February 2018, HSBC gave notice it will redeem these securities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 233 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements HSBC Holdings 2017 2016 $m $m At amortised cost 15,877 15,189 Designated at fair value Note 23 13,394 13,347 At 31 Dec 29,271 28,536 HSBC Holdings subordinated liabilities First call Maturity 2017 2016 Footnotes date date $m $m Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Holdings plc Amounts owed to third parties 2,4 $2,000m 4.25% subordinated notes Mar 2024 2,038 2,060 2 $1,500m 4.25% subordinated notes Jun 2025 1,586 1,539 2 $1,500m 4.375% subordinated notes Nov 2026 1,580 1,520 1 $488m 7.625% subordinated notes May 2032 553 528 1 $222m 7.35% subordinated notes Nov 2032 248 278 1 $2,000m 6.5% subordinated notes May 2036 2,042 2,029 1 $2,500m 6.5% subordinated notes Sep 2037 3,365 3,170 1 $1,500m 6.8% subordinated notes Jun 2038 1,489 1,487 2,4 $1,500m 5.25% subordinated notes Mar 2044 1,755 1,747 1,3 900m 6.375% subordinated notes Oct 2017 Oct 2022 1,163 2 650m 5.75% subordinated notes Dec 2027 1,114 932 2 650m 6.75% subordinated notes Sep 2028 873 793 2 750m 7.0% subordinated notes Apr 2038 1,043 971 2 900m 6.0% subordinated notes Mar 2040 1,199 1,086 2 1,600m 6.25% subordinated notes Mar 2018 1,918 1,693 2 1,750m 6.0% subordinated notes Jun 2019 2,349 2,168 2,4 1,500m 3.375% subordinated notes Jan 2019 Jan 2024 1,827 1,626 2 1,500m 3.0% subordinated notes Jun 2025 2,037 1,716 2 1,000m 3.125% subordinated notes Jun 2028 1,363 1,139 28,379 27,645 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings $900m 10.176% subordinated step-up cumulative notes Jun 2030 Jun 2040 892 891 892 891 At 31 Dec 29,271 28,536 1 Amounts owed to third parties represent securities included in the capital base of HSBC as tier 2 securities in accordance with the grandfathering provisions under CRD IV rules.
2 These securities are included in the capital base of HSBC as fully CRD IV compliant tier 2 securities on an end point basis.
3 In 2017, HSBC redeemed these securities.
4 These subordinated notes are measured at amortised cost in HSBC Holdings, where the interest rate risk is hedged using a fair value hedge, while they are measured at fair value in the Group.
Additional tier 1 capital securities Additional tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred or cancelled at the discretion of HSBC.
The securities presented in this Note are accounted for as liabilities because HSBC has an obligation to pay dividends in perpetuity.
See Note 31 for additional tier 1 capital securities accounted for as equity.
The additional tier 1 securities presented in this section do not meet the identifying criteria in full for recognition as tier 1 capital under CRD IV but are eligible as regulatory capital subject to grandfathering limits and progressive phase-out.
Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc These capital securities were issued by the Jersey limited partnerships and proceeds lent to the respective guarantors by the limited partnerships in the form of subordinated notes.
They qualify as additional tier 1 capital for HSBC under CRD IV by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions, and the two capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank also qualify as additional tier1 capital for HSBC Bank on a solo and a consolidated basis under CRD IV by virtue of the same grandfathering process.
These preferred securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with economic rights equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares ofthe relevant issuer.
There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBCs capital adequacy requirements or if HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank has insufficient distributable reserves as defined.
HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank have individually covenanted that if prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the preferred securities in full, they will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect oftheir ordinary shares, or repurchase or redeem their ordinary shares, until the distribution on the preferred securities has been paid in full.
Preference shares of HSBC Holdings that have economic terms equal in all material respects to the preferred securities and their guarantee together will be substituted for the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings if the total capital ratio of HSBC Holdings falls below the regulatory minimum required, or the Directors expect it to in the near term.
Preference shares of HSBC Bank that have economic terms equal in all material respects to the preferred securities and their guarantee together will be substituted for the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank if any of the two issues of preferred securities are 234 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 outstanding in April 2049 or November 2048, respectively: or the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis falls below the regulatory minimum required, or the Directors expect it to in the near term.
Tier 2 capital securities These capital securities are included within HSBCs regulatory capital base as tier 2 capital under CRD IV by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions with the exception of identified securities that are compliant with CRD IV end point rules.
Tier 2 capital securities are either perpetual or dated subordinated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons.
In accordance with CRD IV, the capital contribution of all tier 2 securities is amortised for regulatory purposes in their final five years before maturity.
28 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments The table on page 236 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by residual contractual maturity at the balance sheet date.
These balances are included in the maturity analysis as follows: Trading assets and liabilities including trading derivatives but excluding reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue are included in the Due not more than 1 month time bucket, because trading balances are typically held for short periods of time.
Financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity such as equity securities are included in the Due over 5years time bucket.
Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice period which the counterparty of the instrument is entitled to give.
Where there is no contractual notice period, undated or perpetual contracts are included in the Dueover 5 years time bucket.
Non-financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the basis of the contractual maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction.
Liabilities under insurance contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Liabilities under investment contracts areclassified in accordance with their contractual maturity.
Undated investment contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket, however, such contracts are subject to surrender and transfer options by the policyholders.
Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn down.
Application of this policy throughout the Group was improved in 2017, and therefore comparative information has been represented.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 237 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements HSBC Holdings Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not more than more than more than more than more than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 1,985 1,985 Derivatives 1,952 80 356 2,388 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 4,861 13,039 3,145 5 2 1,134 29,560 24,881 76,627 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings designated at fair value 2,411 9,533 11,944 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 17 3 1,798 2,446 4,264 Accrued income and other financial assets 4 123 127 Total financial assets at 31 Dec 2017 8,815 13,046 3,145 5 2 1,214 33,769 37,339 97,335 Non-financial assets 94,399 94,399 Total assets at 31 Dec 2017 8,815 13,046 3,145 5 2 1,214 33,769 131,738 191,734 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 120 2,405 46 2,571 Financial liabilities designated at fairvalue 2,349 11,491 17,050 30,890 debt securities in issue 11,491 6,005 17,496 subordinated liabilities and preferred securities 2,349 11,045 13,394 Derivatives 2,008 110 183 781 3,082 Debt securities in issue 1,081 10,354 22,823 34,258 Accruals and other financial liabilities 439 395 157 39 7 3 1 11 1,052 Subordinated liabilities 1,918 13,959 15,877 Total financial liabilities at 31 Dec 2017 2,567 4,718 203 39 1,088 2,462 22,029 54,624 87,730 Non-financial liabilities 217 217 Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2017 2,567 4,718 203 39 1,088 2,462 22,029 54,841 87,947 Off-balance sheet commitments given Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments tolend 238 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments continued Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not more than more than more than more than more than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 247 247 Derivatives 1,702 93 353 2,148 Loans and advances to HSBC 16,372 167 14,204 46,678 77,421 undertakings Financial investments in HSBC 40 2 838 2,710 3,590 undertakings Accrued income and other financial 12 107 119 assets Total financial assets at 31Dec2016 18,373 2 167 15,135 49,848 83,525 Non-financial assets 97,273 97,273 Total assets at 31 Dec 2016 18,373 2 167 15,135 147,121 180,798 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,052 105 2,157 Financial liabilities designated at fair 2,167 5,845 22,101 30,113 value debt securities in issue 5,845 10,921 16,766 subordinated liabilities and preferred 2,167 11,180 13,347 securities Derivatives 3,841 592 592 5,025 Debt securities in issue 953 4,822 16,030 21,805 Accruals and other financial liabilities 75 1,268 142 22 1,507 Subordinated liabilities 1,693 13,496 15,189 Total financial liabilities at 31Dec 2016 5,968 1,268 142 22 4,813 11,364 52,219 75,796 Non-financial liabilities 144 144 Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2016 5,968 1,268 142 22 4,813 11,364 52,363 75,940 Off-balance sheet commitments given Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 29 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities The Amounts not set off in the balance sheet include transactions where: the counterparty has an offsetting exposure with HSBC and a master netting or similar arrangement is in place with a right to set off only in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy, or the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied: and in the case of derivatives and reverse repurchase repurchase, stock borrowing lending and similar agreements, cash and non-cash collateral has been received pledged.
For risk management purposes, the net amounts of loans and advances to customers are subject to limits, which are monitored and the relevant customer agreements are subject to review and updated, as necessary, to ensure that the legal right to set off remains appropriate.
The amount of cash margin paid that had been offset against the gross derivatives liabilities was $5,196m 2016: $5,862m.
2 For the amount of repos, reverse repos, stock lending, stock borrowing and similar agreements recognised on the balance sheet within Trading assets $17,120m 2016: $10,207m and Trading liabilities $10,618m 2016: $5,071m, see the Funding sources and uses table on page 102.
3 At 31 December 2017, the total amount of Loans and advances to customers was $962,964m 2016: $861,504m of which $31,667m 2016: $31,694m was subject to offsetting.
4 At 31 December 2017, the total amount of Customer accounts was $1,364,462m 2016: $1,272,386m of which $32,109m 2016:$30,820m was subject to offsetting.
5 These exposures continue to be secured by financial collateral, but we may not have sought or been able to obtain a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the right of offset.
30 Non-controlling interests 2017 2016 $m $m Non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries 7,621 6,932 Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries 260 At 31 Dec 7,621 7,192 Hang Seng Bank Limited is the only subsidiary in the Group that gives rise to significant non-controlling interest.
For summarised financial information of Hang Seng Bank Limited see Note 18.
Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries Preferred securities are securities for which there is no obligation to pay a dividend and, if the dividend is not paid, it may not be cumulative.
Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for dividend payments and in the event of a winding-up.
These securities have no stated maturity date but may be called and redeemed by the issuer, subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator.
240 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 All non-cumulative preferred securities are classified as additional tier 1 capital.
Preferred securities issued by HSBCs subsidiaries 2017 2016 First call Footnote date $m $m HSBC Bank Canada 1 CA$175m Non-cumulative redeemable class 1 preferred shares, series C Jun 2010 130 1 CA$175m Non-cumulative redeemable class 1 preferred shares, series D Dec 2010 130 At 31 Dec 260 1 In 2017 HSBC redeemed these securities.
31 Called up share capital and other equity instruments Called up share capital and share premium HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of $0.50 each, issued and fully paid 2017 2016 Footnote Number $m Number $m At 1 Jan 20,191,586,214 10,096 19,685,096,934 9,842 Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans 76,701,249 38 69,187,052 35 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 380,652,196 190 437,302,228 219 Less: Shares repurchased and cancelled 328,223,401 164 1 At 31 Dec 20,320,716,258 10,160 20,191,586,214 10,096 HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of $0.01 each 2017 2016 Footnote Number $m Number $m 2 At 1 Jan and 31 Dec 1,450,000 1,450,000 HSBC Holdings share premium 2017 2016 $m $m At 31 Dec 10,177 12,619 Total called up share capital and share premium 2017 2016 $m $m At 31 Dec 20,337 22,715 1 All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue, excluding 325,273,407 shares held in treasury, confer identical rights, including in respect of capital, dividends and voting.
2 Included in the capital base of HSBC as additional tier 1 capital in accordance with the CRD IV rules, by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions.
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of $0.01 HSBC Holdings pays dividends on non-cumulative preference shares of $0.01 each dollar preference shares quarterly, at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board.
The Board will not declare a dividend on them if this would stop the company from meeting the PRAs capital adequacy requirements, or if profit available for distribution as dividends is insufficient to also pay dividends on other shares that are equally entitled and scheduled on the same date.
HSBC Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on shares ranking lower in the right to dividends than dollar preference shares, or redeem or purchase any of its other shares ranking equal or lower than dollar preference shares, unless it has fully paid, or set aside an amount to fully pay, the dividends on the dollar preference shares for the then current dividend period.
The dollar preference shares carry no rights to conversion into ordinary shares.
Holders of dollar preference shares are only entitled to attend and vote at shareholder meetings if dividends on these shares have not been paid in full on four consecutive dividend payment dates.
In such circumstances, holders of these shares are entitled to vote at shareholder meetings until HSBC Holdings has paid a full dividend on them.
These securities can be redeemed by HSBC at any time, subject to prior approval by the PRA.
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference share of 0.01 The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of 0.01 sterling preference share has been in issue since 29 December 2010 and is held by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings.
Dividends are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board.
The sterling preference share carries no rights of conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no right to attend or vote at shareholder meetings of HSBC Holdings.
Other equity instruments HSBC Holdings includes three types of additional tier 1 capital securities in its tier 1 capital.
Two are presented in this Note and are accounted for as equity because HSBC does not have an obligation to transfer cash or a variable number of its own ordinary shares to holders under any circumstances outside its control.
See Note 27 for additional tier 1 securities accounted for as liabilities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 241 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Additional tier 1 capital securities Additional tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred at HSBC Holdings discretion.
While any coupon payments are unpaid or deferred, HSBC Holdings will not declare or pay dividends or make distributions or similar periodic payments in respect of any securities of lower or equal rank, or repurchase or redeem them.
Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for coupon payments, and in the event of a winding-up.
They do not meet the identifying criteria in full for recognition as tier 1 capital under CRD IV but are eligible as regulatory capital subject to grandfathering limits and progressive phase-out.
At HSBC Holdings discretion, and subject to certain conditions being satisfied, the capital securities may be exchanged on any coupon payment date for non-cumulative preference shares to be issued by HSBC Holdings and ranking pari passu with the dollar and sterling preference shares in issue.
The preference shares would be issued at a nominal value of $0.01 per share and a premium of $24.99 per share, with both amounts being subscribed and fully paid.
HSBCs additional tier 1 capital securities in issue which are accounted for in equity 2017 2016 First call date $m $m $2,200m 8.125% perpetual subordinated capital securities Apr 2013 2,133 2,133 $3,800m 8.000% perpetual subordinated capital securities, Series 2 Dec 2015 3,718 3,718 At 31 Dec 5,851 5,851 Additional tier 1 capital contingent convertible securities During 2017, HSBC continued to issue contingent convertible securities that are included in its capital base as fully CRD IV compliant additional tier 1 capital securities on an end point basis.
The net proceeds of the issuances are used for general corporate purposes and to further strengthen its capital base to meet requirements under CRD IV.
These securities bear a fixed rate of interest until their initial call dates.
After the initial call dates, if they are not redeemed, the securities will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for 5-year periods based on prevailing market rates.
Interest on the contingent convertible securities will be due and payable only at the sole discretion of HSBC, and HSBC has sole and absolute discretion at all times to cancel for any reason in whole or in part any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any payment date.
Distributions will not be paid if they are prohibited under UK banking regulations or if the company has insufficient reserves or fails to meet the solvency conditions defined in the securities terms.
The contingent convertible securities are undated and are repayable, at the option of HSBC, in whole at the initial call date, or on any fifth anniversary after this date.
In addition, the securities are repayable at the option of HSBC in whole for certain regulatory or tax reasons.
Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA.
These securities rank pari passu with HSBCs dollar and sterling preference shares and are therefore ahead of ordinary shares.
The contingent convertible securities will be converted into fully paid ordinary shares of HSBC at a predetermined price, should HSBCs consolidated end point CET1 ratio fall below 7.0%.
Therefore, in accordance with the terms of the securities, if the end point CET1 ratio breaches the 7.0% trigger, the securities will convert into ordinary shares at fixed contractual conversion prices in the issuance currencies of the relevant securities, equivalent to 2.70 at the prevailing rate of exchange on the issuance date, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments.
HSBCs additional tier 1 capital contingent convertible securities in issue which are accounted for in equity 2017 2016 First call date $m $m $1,500m 5.625% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jan 2020 1,494 1,494 $2,000m 6.875% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jun 2021 1,998 1,998 $2,250m 6.375% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2024 2,244 2,244 $2,450m 6.375% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Mar 2025 2,460 2,460 $3,000m 6.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities May 2027 2,997 1,500m 5.250% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2022 1,943 1,943 1,000m 6.000% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2023 1,120 1,120 1,250m 4.750% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jul 2029 1,420 SGD1,000m 4.700% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jun 2022 723 At 31 Dec 16,399 11,259 Shares under option For details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans, see Note 5.
Aggregate options outstanding under these plans 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Number of Number of HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price ordinary shares Period of exercise Exercise price 64,604,932 2017 to 2023 4.0472-5.9640 69,217,725 2016 to 2022 4.04725.4738 36,309 2017 to 2018 HK$55.4701 504,467 2016 to 2018 HK$55.470163.9864 10,539 2017 to 2018 5.3532 86,916 2016 to 2018 5.35326.0657 17,873 2017 to 2018 $7.1456 217,738 2016 to 2018 $7.14568.2094 242 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares At 31 December 2017, the maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above option arrangements and the HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan, together with GPSP awards, long-term incentive awards and deferred share awards granted under the HSBC Share Planand or the HSBC Share Plan 2011, was 169,615,437 2016: 198,483,750.
The total number of shares at 31December 2017 held by employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 5,883,444 2016: 3,997,619.
32 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 1 HSBC HSBC Holdings 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Guarantees and other contingent liabilities: financial guarantees and similar contracts 38,328 37,072 7,778 7,619 other guarantees 51,434 44,394 other contingent liabilities 616 553 At 31 Dec 90,378 82,019 7,778 7,619 Commitments: documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 8,776 9,190 forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 4,295 5,386 standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 672,518 641,267 At 31 Dec 685,589 655,843 1 Guarantees by HSBC Holdings are all in favour of other Group entities.
The above table discloses the nominal principal amounts, which represents the maximum amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
As a significant portion of guarantees and commitments is expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not indicative of future liquidity requirements.
Approximately half the guarantees have a term of less than one year, while guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBCs annual credit review process.
Contingent liabilities arising from legal proceedings, regulatory and other matters against Group companies are disclosed in Notes 26 and 34.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS has provided compensation to consumers following the collapse of a number of deposit takers.
The compensation paid out to consumers is currently funded through loans from HM Treasury, which at 31December 2017 stood at approximately $6.3bn 4.7bn.
The Group could be liable to pay a proportion of the outstanding amount that the FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury.
The ultimate FSCS levy to the industry as a result of the collapses cannot currently be estimated reliably, as it is dependent on various uncertain factors, including the potential recoveries of assets by the FSCS and changes in the level of protected deposits and the population of FSCS members at the time.
Associates HSBCs share of associates contingent liabilities amounted to $38.8bn at 31 December 2017 2016: $35.3bn.
No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable.
33 Lease commitments Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2017, future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for land, buildings and equipment were $3,950m 2016: $3,893m.
Finance lease receivables HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets such as aircraft, property and general plant and machinery.
At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for further terms.
Rentals are calculated to recover the cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income.
2017 2016 Total future Unearned Total future Unearned minimum finance Present minimum finance Present payments income value payments income value $m $m $m $m $m $m Lease receivables: No later than one year 3,523 326 3,197 3,248 330 2,918 Later than one year and no later than fiveyears 7,033 696 6,337 6,563 702 5,861 Later than five years 4,784 669 4,115 4,548 633 3,915 At 31 Dec 15,340 1,691 13,649 14,359 1,665 12,694 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 243 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements 34 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business operations.
Apart from the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters are material.
The recognition of provisions is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 1.
While the outcome of legal proceedings and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of these matters at 31 December 2017 see Note 26.
Where an individual provision is material, the fact that a provision has been made is stated and quantified, except to the extent doing so would be seriously prejudicial.
Any provision recognised does not constitute an admission of wrongdoing or legal liability.
It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate ofpotential liability for our legal proceedings and regulatory matters as a class of contingent liabilities.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC Bernard L. Madoff Madoff was arrested in December 2008 and later pleaded guilty to running a Ponzi scheme.
His firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC Madoff Securities, is being liquidated in the US by a trustee the Trustee.
Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the US whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities.
Based on information provided by Madoff Securities, at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was $8.4bn, including fictitious profits reported by Madoff.
Based on information available to HSBC, the funds actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities during the time HSBC serviced the funds are estimated to have totalled approximately $4bn.
Various HSBC companies have been named as defendants in lawsuits arising out of Madoff Securities fraud.
US UK litigation: The Trustee has brought lawsuits against various HSBC companies in the US Bankruptcy Court and in theEnglish High Court, seeking recovery of transfers from Madoff Securities to HSBC in an amount not yet pleaded or determined.
HSBC and other parties to the action have moved to dismiss the Trustees US actions.
The US Bankruptcy Court granted HSBCs motion to dismiss with respect to certain of the Trustees claims in November 2016.
In September 2017, the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit the Second Circuit Court of Appeals agreed to hear the Trustees appeal of the US Bankruptcy Courts decision, where this matter is pending.
The deadline by which the Trustee must serve HSBC with his English action has been extended to September 2018 for UK-based defendants and November 2018 for all other defendants.
Fairfield Sentry Limited, Fairfield Sigma Limited and Fairfield Lambda Limited together, Fairfield in liquidation since July 2009 have brought lawsuits in the US and the British Virgin Islands BVI against fund shareholders, including HSBC companies that acted as nominees for clients, seeking restitution of redemption payments.
In October 2016, the liquidators for Fairfield the Fairfield Liquidators' filed a motion seeking leave to amend their complaints in the US Bankruptcy Court.
In January 2017, the defendants moved to dismiss and oppose the Fairfield Liquidators motion.
In December 2014, three additional actions were filed in the US.
A purported class of direct investors in Madoff Securities asserted common law claims against various HSBC companies in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York the New York District Court.
In September 2016, the New York District Court granted HSBCs motion to dismiss this action and the plaintiffs failure to appeal renders the courts ruling final.
Two investors in Hermes International Fund Limited Hermes also asserted common law claims against various HSBC companies in the New York District Court.
In March 2017, the court granted HSBC's motion to dismiss, which dismissal was upheld by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in November 2017.
In addition, SPV Optimal SUS Ltd SPV OSUS, the purported assignee of the Madoff-invested company, Optimal Strategic US Equity Ltd Optimal, filed a lawsuit in New York state court against various HSBC companies and others, seeking damages on various alleged grounds, including breach of fiduciary duty and breach of trust.
This action has been stayed pending the issuance of a potentially dispositive decision in an action initiated by Optimal regarding the validity of the assignment of its claims to SPV OSUS.
Bermuda litigation: In January 2009, Kingate Global Fund Limited and Kingate Euro Fund Limited together, Kingate brought an action against HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited HBBM for recovery of funds held in Kingates accounts, fees and dividends.
This action is pending, but is not expected to move forward until the resolution of the Trustees US actions against Kingate and HBBM.
Thema Fund Limited and Hermes each brought three actions in 2009.
The first set of actions seeks recovery of funds in frozen accounts held at HSBC Institutional Trust Services Bermuda Limited.
The second set of actions asserts liability against HSBC Institutional Trust Services Bermuda Limited in relation to claims for mistake, recovery of fees and damages for breach of contract.
The third set of actions seeks return of fees from HBBM and HSBC Securities Services Bermuda Limited.
The parties have agreed to a standstill in respect of all three sets of actions.
Cayman Islands litigation: In February 2013, Primeo Fund Limited Primeo in liquidation since April 2009 brought an action against HSBC Securities Services Luxembourg HSSL and Bank of Bermuda Cayman Limited, alleging breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty, and claiming damages and equitable compensation.
The trial concluded in February 2017, and in August 2017, the court dismissed all claims against the defendants.
In September 2017, Primeo appealed to the Court of Appeal of the Cayman Islands, where the matter is pending.
Luxembourg litigation: In April 2009, Herald Fund SPC Herald in liquidation since July 2013 brought an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court, seeking restitution of cash and securities Herald purportedly lost because of Madoff Securities fraud, or money damages.
The Luxembourg District Court dismissed Heralds securities restitution claim, but reserved Heralds cash restitution claim and its claim for money damages.
Herald has appealed this judgment to the Court of Appeal, where this matter is pending.
In March 2010, Herald Lux SICAV Herald Lux in liquidation since April 2009 brought an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court seeking restitution of securities, or the cash equivalent, or money damages.
Herald Lux has also requested the restitution of fees paid to HSSL.
In 2017, the parties agreed a settlement, which was approved by the Luxembourg court in November 2017.
The settlement was concluded in January 2018.
In October 2009, Alpha Prime and, in December 2014, Senator, each brought an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court, seeking the restitution of securities, or the cash equivalent, or money damages.
Both actions have been temporarily suspended at the plaintiffs request.
In April 2015, Senator commenced an action against the Luxembourg branch of HSBCBank plc asserting identical claims before the Luxembourg District Court.
HSSL has also been named as a defendant in various actions by shareholders in Primeo Select Fund, Herald, Herald Lux, and Hermes.
Most of these actions have been dismissed, suspended or postponed.
244 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Ireland litigation: In November 2013, Defender Limited brought an action against HSBC Institutional Trust Services Ireland Limited HTIE and others, alleging breach of contract and claiming damages and indemnification for fund losses.
A provisional trial date has been scheduled for October 2018.
SPV OSUSs action against HTIE and HSBC Securities Services Ireland Limited alleging breach of contract and claiming damages and indemnification for fund losses was dismissed by the Irish High Court in October 2015.
In March 2017, the Irish Court of Appeal affirmed the dismissal.
In April 2017, SPV OSUS filed an application seeking leave to appeal the dismissal to the Irish Supreme Court.
The application was heard by the Irish Supreme Court in February 2018 and judgment is pending.
There are many factors that may affect the range of possible outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of the various Madoff-related proceedings described above, including but not limited to the multiple jurisdictions in which the proceedings have been brought.
Based upon the information currently available, managements estimate of the possible aggregate damages that might arise asa result of all claims in the various Madoff-related proceedings is up to or exceeding $500m, excluding costs and interest.
Due to uncertainties and limitations of this estimate, the ultimate damages could differ significantly from this amount.
US mortgage-related investigations In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA N. A. HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent order the OCC Servicing Consent Order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC, and HSBC Finance Corporation HSBC Finance and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HNAH entered into a similar consent order the FRB Servicing Consent Order with the Federal Reserve Board FRB together with the OCC Servicing Consent Order, the Servicing Consent Orders.
The Servicing Consent Orders required prescribed actions to address certain foreclosure practice deficiencies.
In January 2017, the OCC terminated the OCC Servicing Consent Order after determining that HSBC Bank USA had satisfied the requirements thereunder.
In connection with the termination of the OCC Servicing Consent Order, the OCC also assessed a civil money penalty against HSBC Bank USA, finding that HSBC Bank USA failed to correct deficiencies identified under the OCC Servicing Consent Order in a timely fashion.
The civil money penalty has been paid.
In January 2018, the FRB terminated the FRB Servicing Consent Order after having determined that HNAH and HBIO are in compliance with its terms.
In February 2016, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance, HSBC Mortgage Services Inc. and HNAH entered into an agreement with the USDepartment of Justice the DoJ, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, other federal agencies the Federal Parties and the Attorneys General of 49 states and the District of Columbia the State Parties to resolve civil claims related to past residential mortgage loan origination and servicing practices the National Mortgage Settlement Agreement or NMS.
The cash payments required under the NMS were made in 2016.
In March 2017, the NMS independent monitor validated that the consumer relief obligations were satisfied: and in June 2017, the NMS independent monitor validated that all remaining obligations under the NMS were satisfied.
The Servicing Consent Orders and the National Mortgage Settlement Agreement do not completely preclude other enforcement actions by regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies related to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices, including, but not limited to, matters relating to the securitisation of mortgages for investors, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties, criminal fines or other sanctions.
In addition, these practices have in the past resulted in private litigation, and may result in further private litigation.
US mortgage securitisation activity and litigation HSBC Bank USA was a sponsor or seller of loans used to facilitate whole loan securitisations underwritten by HSBC Securities USA Inc. HSI.
From 2005 to 2007, HSBC Bank USA purchased and sold approximately $24bn of such loans to HSI, which were subsequently securitised and sold by HSI to third parties.
The outstanding principal balance was approximately $4.1bn at 31 December 2017.
HSBC notes that the scale of its mortgage securitisation activities was more limited in relation to a number of other banks in the industry.
In addition, HSI served as an underwriter on securitisations issued by HSBC Finance or third parties, and HSBC Bank USA served as trustee on behalf of various mortgage securitisation trusts.
Mortgage foreclosure and trustee matters: As the industrys residential mortgage foreclosure issues continue, HSBC Bank USA has taken title to a number of foreclosed homes as trustee on behalf of various mortgage securitisation trusts.
As nominal record owner of these properties, HSBC Bank USA has been sued by municipalities and tenants alleging various violations of law, including laws relating to property upkeep and tenants rights.
While HSBC believes and continues to maintain that these obligations and any related liabilities are those of the servicer of each trust, HSBC continues to receive significant adverse publicity in connection with these and similar matters, including foreclosures that are serviced by others in the name of HSBC, as trustee.
Beginning in June 2014, a number of lawsuits were filed in state and federal courts in New York and Virginia against HSBC Bank USA as trustee of more than 280 mortgage securitisation trusts.
These lawsuits are brought on behalf of the trusts by a putative class of investors including, among others, BlackRock and PIMCO funds.
The complaints allege that the trusts have sustained losses in collateral value of approximately $38bn.
The lawsuits seek unspecified damages resulting from alleged breaches of the US Trust Indenture Act, breach of fiduciary duty, negligence, breach of contract and breach of the common law duty of trust.
HSBCs motions to dismiss in several of these lawsuits were, for the most part, denied.
It is not practicable to estimate the possible financial impact of these matters, as there are many factors that may affect the range of possible outcomes: however, the resulting financial impact could be significant.
Loan repurchase matters: HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and Decision One Mortgage Company LLC Decision One, an indirect subsidiary of HSBC Finance, have been named as defendants in various mortgage loan repurchase actions brought by trustees of mortgage securitisation trusts.
In the aggregate, these actions seek to have the HSBC defendants repurchase mortgage loans, or pay compensatory damages, totalling at least $1bn.
In August 2016, HSBC reached an agreement in principle to settle one of the matters.
In September 2017, the court approved the settlement, concluding the matter.
Another matter against HSBC Bank USA was dismissed on appeal in December 2017.
HSBC Mortgage Corporation USA Inc. and Decision One have also been named as defendants in two separate actions filed by Residential Funding Company LLC RFC, a mortgage loan purchase counterparty, seeking unspecified damages in connection with approximately 25,000 mortgage loans.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 245 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements FIRREA: Since 2010, various HSBC entities have received subpoenas and requests for information from the DoJ and the Massachusetts state Attorney General seeking the production of documents and information regarding HSBCs involvement in certain RMBS transactions as an issuer, sponsor, underwriter, depositor, trustee, custodian or servicer.
In November 2014, HNAH, onbehalf of itself and various subsidiaries including, but not limited to, HSBC Bank USA, HSI Asset Securitization Corp. HSI, HSBC Mortgage Corporation USA, HSBC Finance and Decision One, received a subpoena from the US Attorneys Office for the District of Colorado, pursuant to the Financial Industry Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act FIRREA, concerning the origination, financing, purchase, securitisation and servicing of sub-prime and non-sub-prime residential mortgages.
HSBC continues to cooperate with these investigations, which are at or nearing completion.
In December 2016, HSBC had an initial discussion with the DoJ, wherein the DoJ stated its preliminary view that HSBC is subject to liability under FIRREA in connection with certain securitisations from 2005 to 2007 with respect to which HSBC Bank USA served as sponsor or seller of loans and HSI served as underwriter.
In March 2017, HSBC provided its response to the DoJ, which, among other things, outlined why the Bank disagrees with the DoJs preliminary view.
Since then, the Bank has been in active discussions with the DoJ regarding a potential resolution: however, the Bank has also indicated a willingness to defend itself in the event that formal legal proceedings are commenced.
There can be no assurance as to how or when this matter will be resolved, or whether this matter will be resolved prior to the commencement of formal legal proceedings by the DoJ.
Moreover, it is possible that any such resolution could result in significant penalties and other costs.
To date, at least one bank has been sued by the DoJ and at least eight other banks have reported settlements of mortgage-backed securities-related matters pursuant to FIRREA.
The prior DoJ settlements provide no clear guidance as to how those individual settlement amounts were calculated, and due to the high degree of uncertainty involved, it is not practicable to estimate any possible financial impact of this matter, which could be significant.
HSBC expects the focus on mortgage securitisations to continue and that it may be subject to additional claims, litigation and governmental or regulatory scrutiny relating to its participation in the US mortgage securitisation market.
Anti-money laundering and sanctions-related matters In October 2010, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order with the OCC, and HNAH entered into a consent cease and desist order with the FRB.
In 2012, HSBC Bank USA further entered into an enterprise-wide compliance consent order each an Order and together, the Orders.
These Orders required improvements to establish an effective compliance risk management programme across HSBCs US businesses, including risk management related to the Bank Secrecy Act BSA and AML compliance.
While these Orders remain open, HSBC Bank USA and HNAH believe that they have taken appropriate steps to bring themselves into compliance with the requirements of the Orders.
In December 2012, HSBC Holdings, HNAH and HSBC Bank USA entered into agreements with US and UK government and regulatory agencies regarding past inadequate compliance with the BSA, AML and sanctions laws.
Among those agreements, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA entered into a five-year deferred prosecution agreement with, among others, the DoJ the AML DPA : and HSBC Holdings consented to a cease and desist order, and HSBC Holdings and HNAH consented to a civil money penalty order with the FRB.
HSBC Holdings also entered into an agreement with the Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC regarding historical transactions involving parties subject to OFAC sanctions, as well as an undertaking with the UK FCA to comply with certain forward-looking AML and sanctions-related obligations.
In addition, HSBC Bank USA entered into civil money penalty orders with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the US Treasury Department FinCEN and the OCC.
Under these agreements, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA made payments totalling $1.9bn to US authorities and undertook various further obligations, including, among others, to retain an independent compliance monitor who is, for FCA purposes, a skilled person under section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act to produce annual assessments of the Groups AML and sanctions compliance programme the Monitor.
Under the cease and desist order issued by the FRB in 2012, the Monitor also serves as an independent consultant to conduct annual assessments.
In February 2018, the Monitor delivered his fourth annual follow-up review report.
Through his country-level reviews, the Monitor identified potential anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance issues that HSBC is reviewing further with the DoJ, FRB and or FCA.
In particular, the DoJ is investigating HSBCs handling of a corporate customers accounts.
In addition, FinCEN as well as the Civil Division of the US Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York are investigating the collection and transmittal of third-party originator information in certain payments instructed over HSBCs proprietary payment systems.
The FCA is also conducting an investigation into HSBC Bank plcs compliance with UK money laundering regulations and financial crime systems and controls requirements.
HSBC is cooperating with all of these investigations.
In December 2017, the AML DPA expired and the charges deferred by the AML DPA were dismissed.
The Monitor will continue working in his capacity as a skilled person and independent consultant for a period of time at the FCAs and FRBs discretion.
The role of the Monitor and his fourth annual follow-up review report, as well as the AML DPA and related agreements and consent orders are discussed on pages 65 and 78.
Concurrent with entry into the AML DPA, HSBC Bank USA also entered into two consent orders with the OCC.
The first, discussed above, required HSBC Bank USA to adopt an enterprise-wide compliance programme.
The second required HSBC Bank USA to correct the circumstances noted in the OCCs report and imposed restrictions on HSBC Bank USA acquiring control of, or holding an interest in, any new financial subsidiary, or commencing a new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, without the OCCs prior approval.
These settlements with US and UK authorities have led to private litigation, and do not preclude further private litigation related to HSBCs compliance with applicable BSA, AML and sanctions laws or other regulatory or law enforcement actions for BSA, AML, sanctions or other matters not covered by the various agreements.
In May 2014, a shareholder derivative action was filed by a shareholder of HSBC Holdings purportedly on behalf of HSBC Holdings, HSBC Bank USA, HNAH and HSBC USA Inc. the Nominal Corporate Defendants in New York state court against certain current and former directors and officers of those HSBC companies the Individual Defendants.
The complaint alleges that the Individual Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Nominal Corporate Defendants and caused a waste of corporate assets by allegedly permitting and or causing the conduct underlying the AML DPA.
In November 2015, the New York state court granted the Nominal Corporate Defendants motion to dismiss.
The plaintiff has appealed that decision.
In July 2014, a claim was filed in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against HSBC Holdings and a former employee purportedly onbehalf of a class of persons who purchased HSBC common shares and American Depositary Shares between July 2006 and July 2012.
The complaint, which seeks monetary damages of up to CA$20bn, alleges that the defendants made statutory and common law misrepresentations in documents released by HSBC Holdings and its wholly owned indirect subsidiary, HSBC Bank Canada, relating to 246 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 HSBCs compliance with BSA, AML, sanctions and other laws.
In September 2017, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice dismissed the statutory claims against HSBC Holdings and the former employee for lack of jurisdiction, and stayed the common law misrepresentation claim against HSBC Holdings on the basis of forum non-conveniens.
In October 2017, the plaintiff appealed to the Court of Appeal for Ontario, where the matter is pending.
Since November 2014, five lawsuits have been filed in federal court in New York, Illinois and Texas, against various HSBC companies and others, on behalf of plaintiffs who are, or are related to, victims of terrorist attacks in Iraq and Jordan or of cartel violence in Mexico.
In each case, it is alleged that the defendants aided and abetted the unlawful conduct of various sanctioned parties in violation of the US Anti-Terrorism Act.
One action was voluntarily dismissed in October 2017.
The remaining actions are pending in federal court in New York and are at an early stage.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Tax-related investigations Various tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in the US, Belgium, Argentina, India and Spain are conducting investigations and reviews of HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA HSBC Swiss Private Bank and other HSBC companies, in connection with allegations of tax evasion or tax fraud, money laundering and unlawful cross-border banking solicitation.
HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Internal Revenue Service regarding whether certain HSBC companies and employees, including those associated with HSBC Swiss Private Bank and an HSBC company in India, acted appropriately in relation to certain customers who may have had US tax reporting obligations.
In connection with these investigations, HSBC Swiss Private Bank, with due regard for Swiss law, has produced records and other documents to the DoJ.
In August 2013, the DoJ informed HSBC Swiss Private Bank that it was not eligible for the Program for Non-Prosecution Agreements or Non-Target Letters for Swiss Banks since a formal investigation had previously been authorised.
In November 2014, HSBC Swiss Private Bank was placed under formal criminal examination in France for alleged tax-related offences in 2006 and 2007 and, in April 2015, HSBC Holdings was informed that it had been placed under formal criminal examination in France in connection with the conduct of HSBC Swiss Private Bank.
In November 2017, HSBC Swiss Private Bank reached an agreement with the French public prosecutor to resolve its investigation.
Under the terms of the settlement, HSBC Swiss Private Bank agreed to pay 300 million in fines and damages.
The investigation into HSBC Holdings was dismissed without further proceedings.
In November 2014, HSBC Swiss Private Bank was also placed under formal criminal examination in Belgium for alleged tax-related offences.
In June 2017, Belgian authorities placed HSBC Holdings and HSBC Private Bank Holdings Suisse SA, a Swiss holding company, under formal criminal examination.
In November 2014, the Argentine tax authority initiated a criminal action against various individuals, including current and former HSBC employees.
The criminal action includes allegations of tax evasion, conspiracy to launder undeclared funds and an unlawful association among HSBC Swiss Private Bank, HSBC Bank Argentina, HSBC Bank USA and certain HSBC employees, which allegedly enabled numerous HSBC customers to evade their Argentine tax obligations.
In February 2015, the Indian tax authority issued a summons and request for information to an HSBC company in India.
In August 2015 and November 2015, HSBC companies received notices issued by two offices of the Indian tax authority, alleging that the Indian tax authority had sufficient evidence to initiate prosecution against HSBC Swiss Private Bank and an HSBC company in Dubai for allegedly abetting tax evasion of four different Indian individuals and or families and requesting that the HSBC companies show why such prosecution should not be initiated.
HSBC Swiss Private Bank and the HSBC company in Dubai have responded to the show cause notices.
HSBC is cooperating with the relevant authorities.
At 31 December 2017, HSBC has recognised a provision for these various matters in the amount of $604m.
There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of these investigations andreviews.
Based on the information currently available, managements estimate of the possible aggregate penalties that might arise as a result of the matters in respect of which it is practicable to form estimates is up to or exceeding $1.5bn, including amounts for which a provision has been recognised.
Due to uncertainties and limitations of these estimates, the ultimate penalties could differ significantly from this amount.
In light of the media attention regarding these matters, it is possible that other tax administration, regulatory or law enforcement authorities will also initiate or enlarge similar investigations or regulatory proceedings.
Mossack Fonseca & Co. HSBC has received requests for information from various regulatory and law enforcement authorities around the world concerning persons and entities believed to be linked to Mossack Fonseca & Co. a service provider of personal investment companies.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
London interbank offered rates, European interbank offered rates and other benchmark interest rate investigations and litigation Various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in the UK, the US, the EU and Switzerland, are conducting investigations and reviews related to certain past submissions made by panel banks and the processes for making submissions in connection with the setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark interest rates and screens used to price certain derivative products.
HSBC has been the subject of regulatory demands for information and is cooperating with those investigations and reviews.
In December 2016, the European Commission the Commission issued a decision finding that HSBC, among other banks, engaged in anti-competitive practices in connection with the pricing of euro interest rate derivatives in early 2007.
The Commission imposed a fine on HSBC based on a one-month infringement.
HSBC has appealed the decision.
US dollar Libor: Beginning in 2011, HSBC and other panel banks have been named as defendants in a number of private lawsuits filed in the US with respect to the setting of US dollar Libor.
The complaints assert claims under various US laws, including US antitrust and racketeering laws, the US Commodity Exchange Act US CEA, and state law.
The lawsuits include individual and putative class actions, most of which have been transferred and or consolidated for pre-trial purposes before the New York DistrictCourt.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 247 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements The New York District Court has issued decisions dismissing certain of the claims in response to motions filed by the defendants.
Those decisions resulted in the dismissal of the plaintiffs federal and state antitrust claims, racketeering claims and unjust enrichment claims.
The dismissal of the antitrust claims was appealed to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which reversed the decisions in May 2016.
In July 2016, the defendants filed a joint motion to dismiss the antitrust claims on additional grounds not previously addressed by the court and, in December 2016, the New York District Court granted in part and denied in part the motion, leaving only certain antitrust claims to be litigated.
Certain plaintiffs have appealed the December 2016 order to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
Separately, in October 2016, the New York District Court granted a motion to dismiss claims brought by certain individual plaintiffs for lack of personal jurisdiction, which is also on appeal to the Second Circuit.
Finally, in January 2017, the District Court granted the defendants motion to dismiss certain of the remaining antitrust claims against defendants that did not serve on the US dollar Libor submission panel.
In the New York District Court, the cases with remaining claims against HSBC have been stayed while the court considers motions to certify classes in several putative class actions that are pending against HSBCs co-defendants.
In 2017, HSBC reached agreements with plaintiffs to resolve three putative class actions brought on behalf of persons who purchased US dollar Libor-indexed bonds, persons who purchased US  instruments and US based lending institutions that made or purchased US dollar Libor-indexed loans.
In February 2018, HSBC reached an agreement with plaintiffs to resolve a putative class action brought on behalf of persons who purchased US dollar Libor-indexed interest rate swaps and other instruments directly from the defendant banks and their affiliates.
These settlements are subject to court approval.
Euribor: In November 2013, HSBC and other panel banks were named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in euro futures contracts and other financial instruments allegedly related to Euribor.
The complaint alleges, among other things, misconduct related to Euribor in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and state law.
In December 2016, HSBC reached an agreement with plaintiffs to resolve this action, subject to court approval.
The court issued an order granting preliminary approval in January 2017, and has scheduled the final approval hearing in May 2018.
Singapore Interbank Offered Rate SIBOR, Singapore Swap Offer Rate SOR and Australia Bank Bill Swap Rate BBSW : In July 2016 and August 2016, HSBC and other panel banks were named as defendants in two putative class actions filed in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in products related to the SIBOR, SOR and BBSW benchmark rates.
The complaints allege, among other things, misconduct related to these benchmark rates in violation of US antitrust, commodities and racketeering laws, and state law.
In August 2017, the defendants moved to dismiss the SIBOR and SOR case, and this motion remains pending.
The defendants moved to dismiss the BBSW case in February 2017 and this motion also remains pending.
US dollar International Swaps and Derivatives Association fix ISDAfix : In September 2014, HSBC and other panel banks were named as defendants in a number of putative class actions consolidated in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in interest rate derivatives or purchased or sold financial instruments that were either tied to ISDAfix rates or were executed shortly before, during, or after the time of the daily ISDAfix setting window.
The consolidated complaint alleges, among other things, misconduct related to these activities in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and state law.
HSBCs motion todismiss the complaint was denied in March 2016.
In June 2017, HSBC reached an agreement with plaintiffs to resolve this consolidated action, subject to court approval.
The court issued an order granting preliminary approval in July 2017, but has not yetset a date for the final approval hearing.
Canadian Dealer Offered Rate: In January 2018, various HSBC entities and other banks were named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the New York District Court in relation to the Canadian Dealer Offered Rate.
The claim, which is at an early stage, asserts various breaches of US laws, including US antitrust and racketeering laws, the US CEA, and common law.
There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of these matters, which could be significant.
Supranational, sovereign and agency bonds In April 2017, various HSBC companies, among other banks, were added as defendants in a putative class action alleging a conspiracy to manipulate the market for US dollar-denominated supranational, sovereign and agency bonds between 2005 and 2015 in violation of US antitrust laws.
In November 2017, plaintiffs filed an amended consolidated complaint which omitted certain HSBC defendants.
The remaining HSBC defendants moved to dismiss the amended consolidated complaint, and this motion remains pending.
In November 2017, various HSBC companies and other financial institutions were named as defendants in a putative class action issued in Canada making similar allegations under Canadian law.
The claim has not yet been served.
Foreign exchange rate investigations and litigation Various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in the US, the EU, Switzerland, Brazil, South Korea and South Africa, are conducting civil and criminal investigations and reviews into trading by HSBC and others on the foreign exchange markets.
HSBC is cooperating with these investigations and reviews.
In August 2016, the DoJ indicted two now-former HSBC employees and charged them with wire fraud and conspiracy relating to a 2011 foreign exchange transaction.
In October 2017, one of the former employees was found guilty after trial.
In January 2018, HSBC Holdings entered into a three-year deferred prosecution agreement with the Criminal Division of the DoJ the FX DPA, regarding fraudulent conduct in connection with two particular transactions in 2010 and 2011.
This concluded the DoJs investigation into HSBCs historical foreign exchange activities.
Under the terms of the FX DPA, HSBC has a number of ongoing obligations, including continuing to cooperate with authorities and implementing enhancements to its internal controls and procedures in its Global Markets business, which will be the subject of annual reports to the DoJ.
In addition, HSBC agreed to pay a financial penalty and restitution.
In September 2017, HSBC Holdings and HNAH consented to a civil money penalty order with the FRB in connection with its investigation into HSBCs foreign exchange activities.
Under the terms of the order, HSBC Holdings and HNAH agreed to undertake certain remedial steps and to pay a civil money penalty to the FRB.
In December 2016, HSBC Bank plc entered into a settlement with Brazils Administrative Council of Economic Defense CADE inconnection with its investigation into 15 banks, including HSBC Bank plc, as well as 30 individuals, relating to practices in the offshore foreign exchange market.
Under the terms of the settlement, HSBC Bank plc agreed to pay a financial penalty to CADE.
CADE has also publicly announced that it is initiating a separate investigation into the onshore foreign exchange market and has identified a number of banks, including HSBC, as subjects of its investigation.
248 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 In February 2017, the Competition Commission of South Africa referred a complaint for proceedings before the South African Competition Tribunal against 18 financial institutions, including HSBC Bank plc, for alleged misconduct related to the foreign exchange market in violation of South African antitrust laws.
In April 2017, HSBC filed an exception to the complaint, based on a lack of jurisdiction andstatute of limitations.
In January 2018, the South African Competition Tribunal approved the provisional referral of additional financial institutions, including HSBC Bank USA, to the proceedings.
These proceedings are at an early stage.
In late 2013 and early 2014, HSBC and other banks were named as defendants in various putative class actions consolidated intheNew York District Court.
The consolidated complaint alleged, among other things, that the defendants conspired to manipulatethe WM Reuters foreign exchange benchmark rates.
In September 2015, HSBC reached an agreement with plaintiffs toresolve theconsolidated action, subject to court approval.
In December 2015, the court granted preliminary approval of the settlement, and HSBC made payment of the agreed settlement amount into an escrow account.
The settlement remains subject tofinal approval by the court.
In June 2015, a putative class action was filed in the New York District Court making similar allegations on behalf of Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ERISA plan participants.
The court dismissed the claims in the ERISA action, and the plaintiffs have appealed to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
In May 2015, another complaint was filed in the US District Court for the Northern District of California making similar allegations on behalf of retail customers.
HSBC filed a motion to transfer that action from California to New York, which was granted in November 2015.
In March 2017, the New York District Court dismissed the retail customers complaint in response to the defendants joint motion to dismiss.
In August 2017, the retail customer plaintiffs filed an amended complaint and the defendants moved to dismiss.
In April and June 2017, putative class actions making similar allegations on behalf of purported indirect purchasers of foreign exchange products were filed in New York.
Those plaintiffs subsequently filed a consolidated amended complaint.
HSBCs motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint was filed in August 2017 and remains pending.
In September 2015, two additional putative class actions making similar allegations under Canadian law were issued in Canada against various HSBC companies and other financial institutions.
In June 2017, HSBC reached an agreement with the plaintiffs to resolve these actions.
The settlement received final court approval in October 2017.
At 31 December 2017, HSBC has recognised a provision for these and similar matters in the amount of $511m.
There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of these matters.
Due to uncertainties and limitations of these estimates, the ultimate penalties could differ significantly from the amount provided.
Precious metals fix-related investigations and litigation Various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities, including in the US and the EU, are conducting investigations and reviews relating to HSBCs precious metals operations and trading.
In November 2014, the Antitrust Division and Criminal Fraud Section of the DoJ issued a document request to HSBC Holdings, seeking the voluntary production of certain documents in connection with a criminal investigation that the DoJ is conducting of alleged anticompetitive and manipulative conduct in precious metals trading.
In January 2016, the Antitrust Division of the DoJ informed HSBC that it was closing its investigation.
In January 2018, HSI reached an agreement with the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC to resolve its investigation of HSBCs precious metals activities.
Under the terms of the settlement, HSBC Securities USA Inc. agreed to pay a financial penalty to the CFTC.
Gold: Beginning in March 2014, numerous putative class actions were filed in the New York District Court and the US District Courts for the District of New Jersey and the Northern District of California, naming HSBC and other members of The London Gold Market Fixing Limited as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 2004 to June 2013, defendants conspired to manipulate the price of gold and gold derivatives for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and New York state law.
The actions were consolidated in the New York District Court.
The defendants motion to dismiss the consolidated action was granted in part and denied in part in October 2016.
In June 2017, the court granted plaintiffs leave to file a third amended complaint, which names a new defendant.
The court has denied the pre-existing defendants request for leave to file a joint motion to dismiss.
HSBC and the other preexisting defendants have requested a stay of discovery.
Beginning in December 2015, numerous putative class actions under Canadian law were filed in the Ontario and Quebec Superior Courts of Justice against various HSBC companies and other financial institutions.
The plaintiffs allege that, among other things, from January 2004 to March 2014, defendants conspired to manipulate the price of gold and gold derivatives in violation of the Canadian Competition Act and common law.
These actions are at an early stage.
Silver: Beginning in July 2014, numerous putative class actions were filed in the US District Courts for the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York, naming HSBC and other members of The London Silver Market Fixing Ltd as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 2007 to December 2013, the defendants conspired to manipulate the price of silver and silver derivatives for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and New York state law.
In June 2017, the court granted plaintiffs leave to file a third amended complaint, which names several new defendants.
The court has denied the preexisting defendants request for leave to file a joint motion to dismiss.
HSBC and the other pre-existing defendants have requested a stay of discovery.
In April 2016, two putative class actions under Canadian law were filed in the Ontario and Quebec Superior Courts of Justice against various HSBC companies and other financial institutions.
Plaintiffs in both actions allege that, from January 1999 to August 2014, the defendants conspired to manipulate the price of silver and silver derivatives in violation of the Canadian Competition Act and common law.
The Ontario action is at an early stage.
The Quebec action has been temporarily stayed.
Platinum and palladium: Between late 2014 and early 2015, numerous putative class actions were filed in the New York District Court, naming HSBC and other members of The London Platinum and Palladium Fixing Company Limited as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 2008 to November 2014, the defendants conspired to manipulate the price ofplatinum group metals PGM and PGM-based financial products for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws and the US CEA.
In March 2017, the defendants motion to dismiss the second amended consolidated complaint was granted in part and denied in part.
In June 2017, plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint.
The defendants filed a joint motion to dismiss, which remains pending.
There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of these matters, which could besignificant.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 249 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Treasury auctions Beginning in July 2015, HSI, among other financial institutions, was named as a defendant in several putative class actions filed inthe New York District Court.
The complaints generally allege that the defendants violated US antitrust laws and the US CEA by colluding to manipulate prices of US Treasury securities sold at auction.
The cases have been consolidated in the New York District Court.
In November 2017, the plaintiffs filed an amended consolidated complaint that focused on a sub-group of primary dealer defendants, and dropped several of the financial institutions named in the original consolidated complaint, including HSBC.
In December 2017 the court dismissed the consolidated class claims against those defendants, including HSBC, not named in the consolidated amended complaint.
The DoJ has also requested information from HSBC and reportedly other banks regarding US Treasury securities trading practices.
HSBC is cooperating with this ongoing investigation.
Interest rate swap and credit default swap litigation In February 2016, various HSBC companies, among others, were added as defendants in a putative class action filed in the New York District Court.
The complaint alleged that the defendants violated US antitrust laws by, among other things, conspiring to boycott and eliminate various entities and practices that would have brought exchange trading to buy-side investors in the interest rate swaps marketplace.
In June 2016, this action along with other complaints filed in the New York District Court and the Illinois District Court were consolidated in the New York District Court and, in January 2017, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss.
In July 2017, the court granted HSBCs motion to dismiss.
In June 2017, certain plaintiffs in the consolidated action brought a separate individual action in the New York District Court against most of the same defendants, alleging similar violations of federal and state antitrust laws and breaches of common law in relation to the credit default swap market.
Fdration Internationale fide Football Association FIFA related investigations HSBC has received enquiries from the DoJ regarding its banking relationships with certain individuals and entities that are or may be associated with FIFA.
The DoJ is investigating whether multiple financial institutions, including HSBC, permitted the processing of suspicious or otherwise improper transactions, or failed to observe applicable AML laws and regulations.
HSBC is cooperating with the DoJs investigation.
Hiring practices investigation The US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC is investigating multiple financial institutions, including HSBC, in relation to hiring practices of candidates referred by or related to government officials or employees of state-owned enterprises in Asia-Pacific.
HSBC has received various requests for information and is cooperating with the SECs investigation.
Stanford litigation In January 2018, HSBC Bank plc received a letter of claim from the Antiguan Joint Liquidators of Stanford International Bank Ltd SIB asserting various claims in connection with HSBC Bank plcs role as a correspondent bank to SIB from 2003 to 2009.
HSBC Bank plc denies the allegations and is preparing its response.
HSBC Bank plc continues to defend putative class action lawsuits in the US District Court for the Northern District of Texas against HSBC Bank plc and other bank and individual defendants.
The complaints, filed by the Official Stanford Investors Committee and a putative class of persons who held monies on deposit and or certificates of deposit issued by SIB, allege various fraudulent transfer, statutory and tort claims.
In November 2017, the court denied the class plaintiffs' motion for class certification.
Permission to appeal that ruling has been requested by the class plaintiffs.
35 Related party transactions Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel KMP as defined by IAS 24, close family members of KMP and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled by KMP or their close family members.
KMP are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings.
These individuals also constitute senior management for the purposes of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Following a review of the application of IAS 24, it was determined that the roles of Chief Legal Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit and Group Head of Human Resources did not meet the criteria for KMP as provided for in the standard.
Particulars of transactions with related parties are tabulated below.
The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and outstanding balances during the year.
Key Management Personnel Details of Directors remuneration and interest in shares are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 141 to 157.
IAS24 Related party disclosures requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
250 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Compensation of Key Management Personnel 2017 2016 2015 $m $m $m Short-term employee benefits 43 41 40 Post-employment benefits 1 Other long-term employee benefits 5 5 9 Share-based payments 35 37 51 Year ended 31 Dec 83 83 101 Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel 2017 2016 000s 000s Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans 15 18 Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially 22,609 22,283 At 31 Dec 22.624 22,301 Transactions and balances during the year with Key Management Personnel 2017 2016 Highest amounts Highest amounts Balance at outstanding Balance outstanding 31Dec during year at 31 Dec during year Footnotes $m $m $m $m 1 Key Management Personnel 2 Advances and credits 329 334 215 220 Guarantees 6 52 55 63 Deposits 300 893 229 677 1 Includes Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family members.
2 Advances and credits entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings during 2017 with Directors, disclosed pursuant to Section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, totalled $2m 2016: $2m.
Some of the transactions were connected transactions as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions of those rules.
The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
Associates and joint ventures The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures including loans, overdrafts, interest and noninterest bearing deposits and current accounts.
Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 17.
Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures 2017 2016 Highest balance Balance at Highest balance Balance at during the year 31 Dec during the year 31 Dec $m $m $m $m Unsubordinated amounts due from joint ventures 138 119 126 113 Unsubordinated amounts due from associates 3,104 2,537 3,136 2,881 Subordinated amounts due from associates 411 411 Amounts due to associates 2,617 1,232 1,112 576 Guarantees and commitments 654 665 776 594 The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Post-employment benefit plans At 31 December 2017, $5.3bn 2016: $4.4bn of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under management by HSBC companies, earning management fees of $8m in 2017 2016: $6m.
At 31 December 2017, HSBCs post-employment benefit plans had placed deposits of $875m 2016:$710m with its banking subsidiaries, earning interest payable to the schemes of nil 2016: $1m.
The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
The HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme and International Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme enter into swap transactions with HSBC to manage inflation and interest rate sensitivity of its liabilities and selected assets.
At 31 December 2017, the gross notional value of the swaps with HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme was $11.3bn 2016: $10.5bn : these swaps had a positive fair value to the scheme of $1.0bn 2016: $0.9bn : and HSBC had delivered collateral of $1.0bn 2016: $0.9bn to the scheme in respect of these arrangements.
At 31 December 2017, the International Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme no longer held any swaps.
In the prior year, it held swaps gross notional value in 2016: $1.2bn which had a net negative fair value to the scheme 2016: $85m negative.
All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid offer spreads.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 251 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements HSBC Holdings Details of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries are shown in Note 37.
Transactions and balances during the year with subsidiaries 2017 2016 Highest balance Balance at Highest balance Balance at during the year 31 Dec during the year 31 Dec $m $m $m $m Assets Cash and balances with HSBC undertakings 1,985 1,985 997 247 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings designated at fair value 11,944 11,944 Derivatives 2,796 2,388 4,494 2,148 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 89,810 76,627 77,732 77,421 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 4,264 4,264 4,314 3,590 Investments in subsidiaries 95,850 92,930 97,827 95,850 Total related party assets at 31 Dec 206,649 190,138 185,364 179,256 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,906 2,571 3,823 2,157 Derivatives 4,904 3,082 5,025 5,025 Subordinated liabilities 892 892 1,749 891 Total related party liabilities at 31 Dec 8,702 6,545 10,597 8,073 Guarantees and commitments 9,692 7,778 63,719 7,619 The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a separate Group company.
HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the scheme on their behalf.
Disclosure in relation to the scheme is made in Note 5.
36 Events after the balance sheet date A fourth interim dividend for 2017 of $0.21 per ordinary share a distribution of approximately $4,199m was declared by the Directors after 31 December 2017.
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2018 and authorised for issue.
37 HSBC Holdings subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a list of HSBC Holdings plc subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, the registered office address and the effective percentage of equity owned at 31 December 2017 is disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, the share capital comprises ordinary or common shares which are held by Group subsidiaries.
The ownership percentage is provided for each undertaking.
The undertakings below are consolidated by HSBC unless otherwise indicated.
252 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Subsidiaries % of share class % of share class held by immediate held by immediate parent company or parent company or by the Group where by the Group where Subsidiaries Footnotes Subsidiaries Footnotes this varies this varies 15 ACN 087 652 113 Pty Limited 100.00 Chongqing Dazu HSBC Rural Bank Company Limited 100.00 12, 37 Almacenadora Banpacifico S. A. in liquidation 99.99 9, 16 Chongqing Fengdu HSBC Rural Bank Company Limited 100.00 12, 38 17 Assetfinance December F Limited 100.00 17 Assetfinance December H Limited 100.00 Chongqing Rongchang HSBC Rural Bank Company Limited 100.00 12, 39 17 Assetfinance December M Limited 100.00 40 CL Residential Limited in liquidation 100.00 17 Assetfinance December P Limited 100.00 17 COIF Nominees Limited 100.00 17 Assetfinance December R Limited 100.00 41 Cordico Management AG 100.00 17 Assetfinance June A Limited 100.00 42 Corhold Limited in liquidation 100.00 17 Assetfinance June D Limited 100.00 17 Dalian Pulandian HSBC Rural Bank Company Assetfinance Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 12, 43 18 Assetfinance March B Limited 100.00 44 Decision One Mortgage Company, LLC 100.00 17 Assetfinance March D Limited 100.00 4, 9, 45 Dem 5 100.00 99.99 17 Assetfinance March F Limited 100.00 4, 9, 45 Dem 9 100.00 99.99 17 Assetfinance September F Limited 100.00 4, 9, 46 Dempar 1 100.00 99.99 17 Assetfinance September G Limited 100.00 9, 46 Dempar 4 100.00 99.99 19 B&Q Financial Services Limited 100.00 9, 16 Desarrollo Turistico, S. A. fide C. V. 99.99 9, 20 Banco Nominees Guernsey Limited 100.00 31 Ellenville Holdings, Inc. 100.00 20 Banco Nominees 2 Guernsey Limited 100.00 35 Elysees GmbH in Liquidation 100.00 99.99 21 Banco Nominees Limited 100.00 4, 47 Elyses Immo Invest 100.00 99.99 22 Bank of Bermuda Cayman Limited 100.00 17 EMTT Limited in liquidation 100.00 7, 9, 23 Beau Soleil Limited Partnership n a 17 Equator Holdings Limited in liquidation 100.00 Beijing Miyun HSBC Rural Bank Company 20 Eton Corporate Services Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 12, 24 48 Far East Leasing SA 100.00 25 Beneficial Company LLC 100.00 4, 9, 45 Fdm 5 SAS 100.00 99.99 26 Beneficial Consumer Discount Company 100.00 49 FEPC Leasing Ltd. 100.00 27 Beneficial Financial I Inc. 100.00 4, 9, 47 Finanpar 2 100.00 99.99 25 Beneficial Florida Inc. 100.00 4, 9, 47 Finanpar 7 100.00 99.99 25 Beneficial Homeowner Service Corporation 100.00 1, 4, 9, 50 Flandres Contentieux S. A.
100.00 99.99 25 Beneficial Kentucky Inc. 100.00 4, 9, 46 Foncire Elyses 100.00 99.99 25 Beneficial Loan & Thrift Co. 100.00 17 Forward Trust Rail Services Limited 100.00 25 Beneficial Louisiana Inc. 100.00 25 Fujian Yongan HSBC Rural Bank Company Beneficial Maine Inc. 100.00 Limited 100.00 12, 51 25 Beneficial Massachusetts Inc. 100.00 52 Fulcher Enterprises Company Limited 100.00 62.14 25 Beneficial Michigan Inc. 100.00 1, 9, 11, 16 Fundacion HSBC, A. C. 99.99 25 Beneficial New Hampshire Inc. 100.00 Gesellschaft fur Industrielle Beteiligungen 25 Beneficial Oregon Inc. 100.00 und Finanzierung mbH 100.00 80.67 9, 53 25 Beneficial Rhode Island Inc. 100.00 54 Gesico International SA in liquidation 100.00 25 Beneficial South Dakota Inc. 100.00 31 Giller Ltd. 100.00 28 Beneficial Tennessee Inc. 100.00 25 GPIF Co-Investment, LLC 80.00 29 Beneficial West Virginia, Inc. 100.00 8, 22 GPIF-I Equity Co. Ltd. 100.00 30 Beneficial Wyoming Inc. 100.00 8, 22 GPIF-I Finance Co. Ltd 100.00 223 BFC Insurance Agency of Nevada 100.00 17 Griffin International Limited 100.00 17 Billingsgate Nominees Limited 100.00 9, 16 Grupo Financiero HSBC, S. A. fide C. V. 99.99 27 Cal-Pacific Services, Inc. 100.00 Guangdong Enping HSBC Rural Bank 17 Canada Crescent Nominees UK Limited 100.00 Company Limited 100.00 12, 55 17 Canada Square Nominees UK Limited 100.00 129 GZ Guyerzeller Corporation in liquidation 100.00 Canada Square Property Participations 52 Hang Seng Nominee Limited 100.00 62.14 Limited 100.00 17 12, 57 Hang Seng Bank China Limited 100.00 62.14 17 Canada Water Nominees UK Limited 100.00 52 Hang Seng Bank Trustee Limited 100.00 62.14 31 Capco Cove, Inc. 100.00 52 Hang Seng Bank Limited 62.14 32 Card-Flo #1, Inc. 100.00 52 Hang Seng Bullion Company Limited 100.00 62.14 25 Card-Flo #3, Inc. 100.00 52 Hang Seng Credit Limited 100.00 62.14 33 Cayman International Finance Limited 100.00 52 Hang Seng Data Services Limited 100.00 62.14 34 CC&H Holdings LLC 100.00 52 Hang Seng Finance Limited 100.00 62.14 CCF Charterhouse GmbH & Co Asset Leasing 52 Hang Seng Financial Information Limited 100.00 62.14 KG In Liquidation 100.00 99.99 35 52 Hang Seng Futures Limited 100.00 62.14 4, 35 CCF Charterhouse GmbH in Liquidation 100.00 99.99 52 Hang Seng Indexes Company Limited 100.00 62.14 1, 36 CCF Holding LIBAN S. A. L. in liquidation 74.99 52 Hang Seng Insurance Company Limited 100.00 62.14 17 CCF & Partners Asset Management Limited 99.99 52 Hang Seng Investment Management Limited 100.00 62.14 9, 17 Charterhouse Administrators D. T. Limited 100.00 99.99 52 Hang Seng Investment Services Limited 100.00 17 Charterhouse Development Limited 100.00 52 Hang Seng Life Limited 100.00 9, 17 Charterhouse Management Services Limited 100.00 99.99 52 Hang Seng Real Estate Management Limited 100.00 17 Charterhouse Pensions Limited 100.00 52 Hang Seng Securities Limited 100.00 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 253 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements % of share class % of share class held by immediate held by immediate parent company or parent company or by the Group where by the Group where Subsidiaries Footnotes Subsidiaries Footnotes this varies this varies 52 76 Hang Seng Security Management Limited 100.00 HSBC Bank Uruguay S. A.
100.00 52 77 Haseba Investment Company Limited 100.00 HSBC Bank Vietnam Ltd. 100.00 40 78 HFC Bank Limited in liquidation 100.00 HSBC Bank A. S. 100.00 25 79 HFC Company LLC 100.00 HSBC Bank Argentina S. A.
100.00 99.99 52 80 High Time Investments Limited 100.00 62.14 HSBC Bank Armenia cjsc 70.00 58 15 HITG Administration GmbH 100.00 HSBC Bank Australia Limited 100.00 59 21 Honey Green Enterprises Ltd. 100.00 HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 100.00 81 HSBC Bank Canada 100.00 Hongkong International Trade Finance Holdings Limited in liquidation 100.00 17 7, 61 HSBC Bank Capital Funding Sterling 1 LP 100.00 25 Household Capital Markets LLC 100.00 7, 61 HSBC Bank Capital Funding Sterling 2 LP 100.00 82 Household Commercial Financial Services, HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E 94.54 Inc. 100.00 26 83 HSBC Bank International Limited 100.00 Household Finance Consumer Discount 62 HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad 100.00 Company 100.00 25 84 HSBC Bank Malta p. l. c. 70.03 25 Household Finance Corporation II 100.00 5, 85 HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 100.00 25 Household Finance Corporation III 100.00 HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, 224 Household Finance Corporation of Alabama 100.00 Representative Office Morocco SARL 100.00 86 25 Household Finance Corporation of California 100.00 83 HSBC Bank Nominee Jersey Limited 100.00 Household Finance Industrial Loan Company 87 HSBC Bank Oman S. A. O. G. 51.00 of Iowa 100.00 225 17 HSBC Bank Pension Trust UK Limited 100.00 Household Finance Realty Corporation of 2, 17 HSBC Bank plc 100.00 Nevada 100.00 25 3, 88 HSBC Bank Polska S. A.
100.00 Household Finance Realty Corporation of 3, 89 HSBC Bank USA, National Association 100.00 New York 100.00 25 17 HSBC Branch Nominee UK Limited 100.00 25 Household Financial Center Inc. 100.00 90 HSBC Brasil Holding S. A.
100.00 226 Household Industrial Finance Company 100.00 90 HSBC Brasil S. A. Banco fide Investimento 100.00 Household Insurance Group Holding 69 HSBC Broking Forex Asia Limited 100.00 Company 100.00 227 69 HSBC Broking Futures Asia Limited 100.00 Household International Europe Limited in 69 HSBC Broking Futures Hong Kong Limited 100.00 liquidation 100.00 3, 40 69 HSBC Broking Nominees Asia Limited 100.00 60 Household Pooling Corporation 100.00 69 HSBC Broking Securities Asia Limited 100.00 25 Household Realty Corporation 100.00 HSBC Broking Securities Hong Kong 20 HRMG Nominees Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 69 17 HSBC BGF Investments Limited 100.00 69 HSBC Broking Services Asia Limited 100.00 56 HSBC BVI Limited in liquidation 100.00 17 HSBC Canada Holdings UK Limited 100.00 2, 61 HSBC General Partner Limited 100.00 HSBC Canadian Covered Bond Legislative 1, 20 HSBC Guernsey GP PCC Limited 100.00 GP Inc 100.00 199 62 HSBC Kuala Lumpur Nominees Sdn Bhd 100.00 91 HSBC Capital Canada Inc. 100.00 63 HSBC Malaysia Trustee Berhad 100.00 25 HSBC Capital USA, Inc. 100.00 64 HSBC Singapore Nominees Pte Ltd 100.00 61 HSBC Capital Funding Dollar 1 L. P. 100.00 65 HSBC Administradora fide Inversiones S. A.
100.00 99.65 69 HSBC Capital Limited 100.00 66 HSBC Agency India Private Limited 100.00 25 HSBC Card Services Inc. 100.00 HSBC Alpha Funding UK Holdings LP in HSBC Casa fide Bolsa, S. A. fide C. V. Grupo liquidation n a 7, 67 Financiero HSBC 99.99 9, 16 17 HSBC Alternative Investments Limited 100.00 33 HSBC Cayman Services Limited 100.00 62 HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad 100.00 17 HSBC City Funding Holdings 100.00 56, 62 HSBC Amanah Takaful Malaysia Berhad 49.00 17 HSBC Client Holdings Nominee UK Limited 100.00 25 HSBC Americas Corporation Delaware 100.00 HSBC Client Share Offer Nominee UK 68 HSBC Argentina Holdings S. A.
100.00 Limited 100.00 17 17 HSBC Asia Holdings UK Limited 100.00 25 HSBC Columbia Funding, LLC 100.00 3, 17 HSBC Asia Holdings B. V. 100.00 62 HSBC Corporate Advisory Malaysia Sdn Bhd 100.00 2, 69 HSBC Asia Holdings Limited 100.00 HSBC Corporate Finance Hong Kong 17 HSBC Asia Pacific Holdings UK Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 69 17 HSBC Asset Finance UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Corporate Trustee Company UK 17 HSBC Asset Finance Holdings Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 17 HSBC Asset Finance M. O. G. Holdings UK 25 HSBC Credit Center, Inc. 100.00 Limited 100.00 17 15 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 100.00 HSBC Asset Management India Private 20 HSBC Custody Services Guernsey Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 99.99 3, 9, 70 92 HSBC Daisy Investments Mauritius Limited 100.00 4, 9, 50 HSBC Assurances Vie France 100.00 99.99 HSBC Diversified Loan Fund General Partner 15 HSBC Australia Holdings Pty Limited 100.00 Sarl 100.00 93 9, 71 HSBC Bank Chile 100.00 99.99 HSBC Electronic Data Processing 12, 72 HSBC Bank China Company Limited 100.00 Guangdong Limited 100.00 12, 94 61 HSBC Bank General Partner Limited 100.00 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Malaysia 73 Sdn Bhd 100.00 HSBC Bank Mauritius Limited 72.95 95 13, 74 HSBC Bank RR Limited Liability Company 100.00 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Philippines, Inc. 100.00 64 96 HSBC Bank Singapore Limited 100.00 75 HSBC Bank Taiwan Limited 100.00 HSBC Electronic Data Processing India Private Limited 100.00 97 254 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 % of share class % of share class held by immediate held by immediate parent company or parent company or by the Group where by the Group where Subsidiaries Footnotes Subsidiaries Footnotes this varies this varies 17 HSBC Global Services UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Lanka Private Limited 100.00 98 2, 17 HSBC Global Services Limited 100.00 HSBC Electronic Data Service Delivery HSBC Global Shared Services India Private Egypt S. A. E. 100.00 99 Limited in liquidation 100.00 99.99 9, 66 17 HSBC Enterprise Investment Company UK HSBC Group Management Services Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 17 1, 2, 17 HSBC Group Nominees UK Limited 100.00 4, 9, 50 HSBC Epargne Entreprise France 100.00 99.99 17 HSBC Holdings B. V. 100.00 17 HSBC Equator UK Limited in liquidation 100.00 25 HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation II 100.00 17 HSBC Equipment Finance UK Limited 100.00 1, 17 HSBC IM Pension Trust Limited 100.00 HSBC Equities Luxembourg S. a r. l. in 17 HSBC Infrastructure Limited 100.00 liquidation 100.00 1, 100 9, 14, 117 HSBC INKA Investment-AG TGV 100.00 80.67 17 HSBC Equity UK Limited 100.00 9, 16 HSBC Inmobiliaria Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. 99.99 17 HSBC Europe B. V. 100.00 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Asia Limited 100.00 HSBC European Clients Depositary Receipts 69 Nominee UK Limited in liquidation 100.00 17 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Bermuda Limited 100.00 HSBC Executor & Trustee Company UK 118 Limited 100.00 17 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Ireland 4, 9, 46 HSBC Factoring France 100.00 99.99 DAC 100.00 119 101 HSBC Finance Brunei Berhad 100.00 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Mauritius 2, 17 Limited 100.00 HSBC Finance Netherlands 100.00 120 25 HSBC Finance Corporation 100.00 HSBC Institutional Trust Services Singapore Limited 100.00 17 64 HSBC Finance Limited 100.00 102 121 HSBC Finance Mortgages Inc. 100.00 HSBC Insurance Asia Limited 100.00 2, 17 HSBC Finance Transformation UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Insurance Asia-Pacific Holdings Limited 100.00 122 103 HSBC Financial Services Lebanon s. a. l. 99.70 21 HSBC Insurance Bermuda Limited 100.00 HSBC Financial Services Middle East Limited In Liquidation 100.00 104 64 HSBC Insurance Singapore Pte.
Limited 100.00 123 HSBC Insurance Agency USA Inc. 100.00 HSBC Financial Services Uruguay S. A. in liquidation 100.00 105 9, 124 HSBC Insurance Brokers Philippines Inc 100.00 99.99 4, 46 HSBC France 99.99 125 HSBC Insurance Brokers Taiwan Limited 100.00 1, 106 HSBC Fund Services Korea Limited 92.95 2, 17 HSBC Insurance Holdings Limited 100.00 17 HSBC Funding UK Holdings 100.00 HSBC Insurance Management Services Limited in liquidation 100.00 53 126 HSBC Germany Holdings GmbH 100.00 107 HSBC Gestion Monaco SA 99.80 HSBC Insurance Services Lebanon S. A. L. in liquidation 97.70 9, 127 HSBC Global Asset Management Bermuda Limited 100.00 21 17 HSBC Insurance Services Holdings Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Canada HSBC International Finance Corporation Limited 100.00 Delaware 100.00 108 128 HSBC Global Asset Management HSBC International Financial Services UK Deutschland GmbH 100.00 80.67 Limited in liquidation 100.00 9, 53 17 4, 9, 109 83 HSBC Global Asset Management France 100.00 99.99 HSBC International Holdings Jersey Limited 100.00 1, 129 HSBC Global Asset Management HSBC International Nominees Limited 100.00 23 Hong Kong Limited 100.00 HSBC International Trade Finance Limited in 100.00 liquidation 40 HSBC Global Asset Management 10, 130 International Limited 100.00 HSBC International Trustee BVI Limited 100.00 110 HSBC International Trustee Holdings Pte.
HSBC Global Asset Management Limited 100.00 64 111 Japan K. K. 100.00 129 HSBC International Trustee Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Malta 9, 71 Limited 100.00 70.02 HSBC Inversiones S. A.
99.99 112 HSBC Inversiones y Servicios Financieros HSBC Global Asset Management Mxico, Limitada 100.00 99.99 9, 71 S. A. fide C. V. Sociedad Operadora fide Fondos fide Inversin, Grupo Financiero HSBC 99.99 9, 16 131 HSBC InvestDirect India Limited 99.99 99.54 HSBC Global Asset Management HSBC InvestDirect Financial Services India Oesterreich GmbH 100.00 80.67 6, 9, 222 Limited 100.00 99.54 9, 131 HSBC Global Asset Management Singapore HSBC InvestDirect Sales & Marketing India Limited 100.00 64 Limited 99.99 98.54 9, 66 HSBC Global Asset Management HSBC InvestDirect Securities India Private Switzerland AG 100.00 90.33 4, 9, 113 Limited 99.99 99.61 9, 131 17 HSBC Global Asset Management Taiwan HSBC Investment Bank Holdings B. V. 100.00 Limited 100.00 114 17 HSBC Investment Bank Holdings Limited 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management UK 108 HSBC Investment Funds Canada Inc. 100.00 Limited 100.00 17 23 HSBC Investment Funds Hong Kong Limited 100.00 115 HSBC Global Asset Management USA Inc. 100.00 100 HSBC Investment Funds Luxembourg SA 100.00 HSBC Global Asset Management Holdings HSBC Investments Bahamas Limited in Bahamas Limited 100.00 116 liquidation 100.00 133 17 HSBC Global Asset Management Limited 100.00 134 HSBC Invoice Finance UK Limited 100.00 17 HSBC Global Custody Nominee UK Limited 100.00 92 HSBC Iris Investments Mauritius Ltd 100.00 HSBC Global Custody Proprietary Nominee HSBC Issuer Services Common Depositary UK Limited 100.00 17 Nominee UK Limited 100.00 17 69 HSBC Global Services Hong Kong Limited 100.00 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 255 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements % of share class % of share class held by immediate held by immediate parent company or parent company or by the Group where by the Group where Subsidiaries Footnotes Subsidiaries Footnotes this varies this varies 4, 9, 50 HSBC REIM France 100.00 99.99 HSBC Issuer Services Depositary Nominee UK Limited 100.00 17 147 HSBC Representative Office Nigeria Limited 100.00 135 HSBC Land Title Agency USA LLC 100.00 55.00 25 HSBC Retail Services Inc. 100.00 17 HSBC Latin America B. V. 100.00 HSBC Retirement Benefits Trustee UK Limited 100.00 2, 17 1, 2, 17 HSBC Latin America Holdings UK Limited 100.00 69 148 HSBC Leasing Asia Limited 100.00 HSBC Savings Bank Philippines Inc. 99.99 4, 9, 45 69 HSBC Leasing France 100.00 99.99 HSBC Securities Asia Limited 100.00 118 1, 101 HSBC Life International Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities B Berhad 100.00 17 149 HSBC Life UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Canada Inc. 100.00 112 82 HSBC Life Assurance Malta Limited 100.00 70.02 HSBC Securities Egypt S. A. E. 100.00 94.65 17 17 HSBC Lodge Funding UK Holdings 100.00 HSBC Securities Japan Limited 100.00 17 1, 9, 150 HSBC LU Nominees Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Philippines Inc. 99.99 20 64 HSBC Management Guernsey Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Singapore Pte Limited 100.00 25 151 HSBC Markets USA Inc. 100.00 HSBC Securities South Africa Pty Limited 100.00 17 75 HSBC Marking Name Nominee UK Limited 100.00 HSBC Securities Taiwan Corporation Limited 100.00 25 HSBC Securities USA Inc. 100.00 HSBC Mexico, S. A. Institucion fide Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC 99.99 16 HSBC Securities and Capital Markets India Private Limited 99.99 136 9, 66 HSBC Middle East Finance Company Limited 100.00 80.00 2, 17 HSBC Middle East Holdings B. V. 100.00 HSBC Securities Asia International Nominees 100.00 Limited 152 7, 9, 137 HSBC Middle East Leasing Partnership n a 69 HSBC Securities Asia Nominees Limited 100.00 56, 138 HSBC Middle East Securities L. L. C 49.00 69 HSBC Securities Brokers Asia Limited 100.00 81 HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada 100.00 69 HSBC Securities Investments Asia Limited 100.00 25 HSBC Mortgage Corporation USA 100.00 118 HSBC Securities Services Bermuda Limited 100.00 25 HSBC Mortgage Services Inc. 100.00 20 HSBC Securities Services Guernsey Limited 100.00 62 HSBC Nominees Asing Sdn Bhd 100.00 119 HSBC Securities Services Ireland DAC 100.00 69 HSBC Nominees Hong Kong Limited 100.00 100 HSBC Securities Services Luxembourg S. A.
100.00 139 HSBC Nominees New Zealand Limited 100.00 153 HSBC Securities Services USA Inc. 100.00 62 HSBC Nominees Tempatan Sdn Bhd 100.00 129 HSBC Securities Services Holding Limited 100.00 25 HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 100.00 HSBC Securities Services Holdings Ireland HSBC Odeme Sistemleri Bilgisayar DAC 100.00 119 Teknolojileri Basin Yayin five Musteri Hizmetleri 100.00 99.99 140 9, 68 HSBC Seguros fide Retiro Argentina S. A.
100.00 99.99 2, 17 HSBC Overseas Holdings UK Limited 100.00 9, 68 HSBC Seguros fide Vida Argentina S. A.
100.00 99.99 HSBC Overseas Investments Corporation New York 100.00 141 HSBC Seguros, S. A fide C. V. Grupo Financiero HSBC 99.99 3, 9, 144 17 HSBC Overseas Nominee UK Limited 100.00 154 HSBC Service Delivery Polska Sp.
100.00 99.99 4, 9, 46 HSBC Services France 100.00 99.99 142 HSBC PB Corporate Services 1 Limited 100.00 133 HSBC Services Japan Limited 100.00 143 HSBC PB Services Suisse SA 100.00 9, 16 HSBC Servicios Financieros, S. A. fide C. V. 99.99 119 HSBC Pension Trust Ireland DAC 100.00 HSBC Servicios, S. A. fide C. V. Grupo 9, 144 HSBC Pensiones, S. A.
99.99 Financiero HSBC 99.99 9, 16 120 HSBC PI Holdings Mauritius Limited 100.00 4, 9, 50 HSBC SFH France 100.00 99.99 9, 145 HSBC Portfoy Yonetimi A. S. 100.00 99.98 155 HSBC Software Development Canada Inc 100.00 17 HSBC Preferential LP UK 100.00 HSBC Software Development Guangdong 20 HSBC Private Bank C. I.
Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 12, 156 100 HSBC Private Bank Luxembourg S. A.
100.00 HSBC Software Development India Private 4, 107 HSBC Private Bank Monaco SA 100.00 Limited 100.00 157 143 HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA 100.00 HSBC Software Development Malaysia Sdn 17 HSBC Private Bank UK Limited 100.00 Bhd 100.00 95 132 HSBC Private Bank International 100.00 17 HSBC Specialist Investments Limited 100.00 143 HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA 100.00 HSBC Stockbroker Services Client Assets Nominees Limited 100.00 HSBC Private Banking Nominee 3 Jersey 17 Limited 100.00 142 17 HSBC Stockbrokers Nominee UK Limited 100.00 25 HSBC Private Equity Advisors LLC 100.00 25 HSBC Taxpayer Financial Services Inc. 100.00 HSBC Private Equity Investments UK 12, 158 HSBC Technology & Services China Limited 100.00 Limited 100.00 17 25 HSBC Technology & Services USA Inc. 100.00 69 HSBC Private Trustee Hong Kong Limited 100.00 32 HSBC TFS I 2005 LLC 100.00 108 HSBC Private Wealth Services Canada Inc. 100.00 6, 159 HSBC Transaction Services GmbH 100.00 HSBC Professional Services India Private HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt International Limited 100.00 66 S. A.
100.00 80.67 100 17 HSBC Property UK Limited 100.00 14, 53 HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG 100.00 80.67 17 HSBC Property Funds Holding Limited 100.00 HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt Gesellschaft fur HSBC Property Funds Investment Limited in Bankbeteiligungen mbH 100.00 80.67 53 100.00 liquidation 40 HSBC Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
HSBC Provident Fund Trustee Hong Kong 5 GmbH 100.00 80.67 53 Limited 100.00 69 6, 53 HSBC Trinkaus Family Office GmbH 100.00 80.67 1, 12, 146 HSBC Qianhai Securities Limited 100.00 51.00 53 HSBC Trinkaus Immobilien Beteiligungs KG 100.00 80.67 17 HSBC Rail UK Limited 100.00 6, 53 HSBC Trinkaus Real Estate GmbH 100.00 80.67 4, 9, 50 HSBC Real Estate Leasing France 99.00 81 HSBC Trust Company Canada 100.00 25 HSBC Realty Credit Corporation USA 100.00 256 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 % of share class % of share class held by immediate held by immediate parent company or parent company or by the Group where by the Group where Subsidiaries Footnotes Subsidiaries Footnotes this varies this varies 3, 9, 16 Promocion en Bienes Raices, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 99.19 HSBC Trust Company Delaware, National Association 100.00 1, 160 Prudential Client HSBC GIS Nominee UK Limited 100.00 17 17 HSBC Trust Company UK Limited 100.00 41 170 HSBC Trust Company AG 100.00 PT Bank HSBC Indonesia 100.00 98.93 142 171 HSBC Trustee C. I.
Limited 100.00 PT HSBC Sekuritas Indonesia 100.00 85.00 161 25 HSBC Trustee Cayman Limited 100.00 R CLIP Corp. 100.00 20 20 HSBC Trustee Guernsey Limited 100.00 Republic Nominees Limited 100.00 69 123 HSBC Trustee Hong Kong Limited 100.00 Republic Overseas Capital Corporation 100.00 17 RLUKREF Nominees UK One Limited 100.00 HSBC Trustee Mauritius Limited in liquidation 100.00 162 17 RLUKREF Nominees UK Two Limited 100.00 64 HSBC Trustee Singapore Limited 100.00 11, 45 S. A. P. C. - Ufipro Recouvrement 100.00 99.97 17 HSBC UK Bank plc 100.00 4, 9, 47 Saf Baiyun 100.00 99.99 2, 17 HSBC UK Holdings Limited 100.00 4, 9, 47 Saf Chang Jiang 100.00 99.99 141 HSBC USA Inc. 100.00 4, 9, 47 Saf Chang Jiang Shi Liu 100.00 99.99 9, 163 HSBC Valores S. A.
100.00 99.99 1, 4, 9, 47 Saf Chang Jiang Shi Wu 100.00 99.99 92 HSBC Violet Investments Mauritius Limited 100.00 4, 9, 47 Saf Guangzhou 100.00 99.99 17 HSBC Wealth Client Nominee Limited 100.00 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang 100.00 99.99 9, 145 HSBC Yatirim Menkul Degerler A. S. 99.99 99.98 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Yi 100.00 99.99 25 HSI Asset Securitization Corporation 100.00 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Ba 100.00 99.99 52 HSI International Limited 100.00 62.14 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Er 100.00 99.99 17 HSIL Investments Limited 100.00 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Jiu 100.00 99.99 4, 9, 47 Hubei Macheng HSBC Rural Bank Company Saf Zhu Jiang Liu 100.00 99.99 Limited 100.00 12, 164 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Qi 100.00 99.99 Hubei Suizhou Cengdu HSBC Rural Bank 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang San 100.00 99.99 Company Limited 100.00 12, 165 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi 100.00 99.99 Hubei Tianmen HSBC Rural Bank Company 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Ba 100.00 99.99 Limited 100.00 12, 166 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Er 100.00 99.99 Hunan Pingjiang HSBC Rural Bank Company 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Jiu 100.00 99.99 Limited 100.00 12, 167 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Liu 100.00 99.99 52 Imenson Limited 100.00 62.14 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Qi 100.00 99.99 INKA Internationale  4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Shi Wu 100.00 99.99 mbH 100.00 80.67 159 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Shiyi 100.00 99.99 3, 16 Inmobiliaria Banci, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 98.91 4, 9, 47 Saf Zhu Jiang Wu 100.00 99.99 9, 16 Inmobiliaria Bisa, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 99.99 142 Samada Limited 100.00 9, 16 Inmobiliaria Grufin, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 99.99 1, 4, 221 SAS Bosquet-Audrain 100.00 94.90 3, 9, 16 Inmobiliaria Guatusi, S. A. fide C. V. 100.00 99.99 1, 4, 45 SAS Cyatheas Pasteur 100.00 94.93 IRERE Property Investments French Offices 1, 4, 220 SAS Orona 100.00 94.92 Sarl 100.00 168 1, 9, 11, 50 SCI HSBC Assurances Immo 100.00 99.99 17 James Capel & Co. Limited 100.00 20 Secondary Club Deal I GP Limited 100.00 James Capel Channel Islands Nominees 20 Limited 100.00 Secondary Club Deal II GP Limited 100.00 110 151 SFSS Nominees Pty Limited 100.00 17 James Capel Nominees Limited 100.00 Shandong Rongcheng HSBC Rural Bank James Capel Second Nominees Limited in Company Limited 100.00 12, 172 liquidation 100.00 17 173 Sico Limited 100.00 17 James Capel Taiwan Nominees Limited 100.00 1,9, 11,174 SNC Dorique 100.00 99.99 17 John Lewis Financial Services Limited 100.00 1, 9, 11, 47 SNC Kerouan 100.00 99.99 9, 17 Keyser Ullmann Limited 100.00 99.99 1, 9, 11, 47 SNC Les Mercuriales 100.00 99.99 169 Kings Meadow Nominees Limited 100.00 11, 50 SNC Les Oliviers D'Antibes 59.99 17 Legend Estates Limited 100.00 1,9, 11,47 SNC Makala 100.00 99.99 69 Lion Corporate Services Limited 100.00 1,9, 11,47 SNC Nuku-Hiva Bail 100.00 99.99 129 Lion International Corporate Services Limited 100.00 1, 4, 9, 47 SNCB M6 - 2008 A 100.00 99.99 129 Lion International Management Limited 100.00 1, 4, 9, 47 SNCB M6-2007 A 100.00 99.99 69 Lion Management Hong Kong Limited 100.00 1, 4, 9, 47 SNCB M6-2007 B 100.00 99.99 69 Lyndholme Limited 100.00 4, 9, 36 Societe CCF Finance Moyen-Orient S. A. L. 96.64 99.99 169 Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc 100.00 4, 9, 46 Socit Financire et Mobilire 100.00 99.99 Marks and Spencer Retail Financial Services Holdings Limited 100.00 4, 9, 47 169 Socit Franaise et Suisse 100.00 99.99 143 Societe Immobiliere Atlas S. A.
100.00 Marks and Spencer Savings and Investments Limited 100.00 169 119 Somers Dublin DAC 100.00 118 Somers Nominees Far East Limited 100.00 Marks and Spencer Unit Trust Management Limited 100.00 169 4, 9, 47 Sopingest 100.00 99.99 68 Maxima S. A. AFJP in liquidation 100.00 99.98 17 South Yorkshire Light Rail Limited 100.00 17 Mercantile Company Limited 100.00 32 SPE 1 2005 Manager Inc. 100.00 16 Mexicana fide Fomento, S. A. fide C. V. 99.80 17 St Cross Trustees Limited 100.00 17 Midcorp Limited 100.00 Sun Hung Kai Development Lujiazui III Limited 100.00 17 12, 175 Midland Bank Branch Nominees Limited 100.00 17 Midland Nominees Limited 100.00 Swan National Leasing Commercials Limited 100.00 17 33 MIL Cayman Limited 100.00 17 68 Swan National Limited 100.00 MW Gestion SA 100.00 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 257 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Associates % of share class held by immediate parent company or The undertakings below are associates and equity accounted.
by the Group where Subsidiaries this varies Footnotes % of share class Tasfiye Halinde HSBC Internet five held by immediate Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri Anonim Sirketi parent company in liquidation 100.00 99.99 176 or by the Group Associates where this varies Footnotes 41 Tempus Management AG in liquidation 100.00 56, 188 Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. 19.03 4, 9, 50 Thasosfin 100.00 99.99 189 Barrowgate Limited 24.64 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 100.00 190 69 BGF Group Limited 24.38 17 Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life The Venture Catalysts Limited 100.00 26.00 Insurance Company Limited 191 25 Timberlink Settlement Services USA Inc. 100.00 192 CFAC Payment Scheme Limited 33.33 17 TKM International Limited in liquidation 100.00 195 Chemi and Cotex Industries Limited 33.99 1, 2, 17 Tooley Street View Limited 100.00 7, 219 Corsair IV Financial Services Capital Partners n a 177 Tower Investment Management 100.00 Electronic Payment Services Company Hong Trinkaus Australien Immobilien Fonds Nr.
1 19.33 Kong Limited 56, 69 Brisbane GmbH & Co. KG 100.00 80.67 53 69 EPS Company Hong Kong Limited 40.58 Trinkaus Australien Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
1 Treuhand-GmbH 100.00 80.67 6, 53 Guangzhou GuangZheng Hang Seng 33.00 Securities Advisory Co. Ltd. 217 Trinkaus Canada Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
1 Verwaltungs-GmbH 100.00 80.67 197 53 GZHS Research Co Ltd 20.50 Hang Seng Qianhai Fund Management Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr.
3 43.50 Objekt Utrecht Verwaltungs-GmbH 100.00 80.67 Company Limited 9, 12, 198 53 7, 200 HSBC Mortgage LLP n a Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds  100.00 80.67 6, 53 32 HSBC TFS II 2005 LLC 20.00 7, 214 InfraRed NF China Real Estate Investments LP n a Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds VerwaltungsGmbH 100.00 80.67 6, 53 187 Jeppe Star Limited 33.99 53 Trinkaus Private Equity Management GmbH 100.00 80.67 203 MENA Infrastructure Fund GP Ltd 33.33 6, 53 Trinkaus Private Equity Verwaltungs GmbH 100.00 80.67 205 Northstar Trade Finance Inc. 20.88 33 Tropical Nominees Limited 100.00 206 Novo Star Limited 33.99 17 Turnsonic Nominees Limited 100.00 7, 216 PEF 2005 A & D Limited Partnership n a 178 Vadep Holding AG in liquidation 100.00 7, 216 PEF 2010 A Limited Partnership n a 4, 9, 179 Valeurs Mobilires Elyses 100.00 99.99 218 Peregrine Capital Services Ltd 33.46 20 Vintage 2016 HV GP Limited in liquidation 100.00 56, 212 Quantexa Limited 10.00 20 Vintage 2016 KKR GP Limited in liquidation 100.00 56, 215 Services Epargne EntrepriseSAS 14.35 210 Vintage 2017 Athyrium GP Limited in The London Gold Market Fixing Limited 25.00 liquidation 100.00 20 211 The Saudi British Bank 40.00 Vintage I Secondary GP Limited in 56, 213 Vizolution Limited 17.95 liquidation 100.00 20 Vintage III Special Situations GP Limited in liquidation 100.00 20 69 Wardley Limited 100.00 69 Wayfoong Credit Limited 100.00 69 Wayfoong Finance Limited 100.00 69 Wayfoong Nominees Limited 100.00 116 Wayhong Bahamas Limited in liquidation 100.00 25 Westminster House, LLC 100.00 21 Woodex Limited 100.00 52 Yan Nin Development Company Limited 62.14 Joint Ventures The undertakings below are Joint Ventures and equity accounted.
% of share class held by immediate parent company or by the Group Joint Ventures where this varies Footnotes 40 HCM Holdings Limited 50.99 180 House Network Sdn Bhd 25.00 HSBC Jintrust Fund Management Company 49.00 Limited 12, 181 HSBC Kingdom Africa Investments Cayman 50.00 Limited 182 183 HSBC Life Insurance Company Limited 50.00 184 ProServe Bermuda Limited 50.00 186 Vaultex UK Limited 50.00 201 HSBC Saudi Arabia 49.40 69.40 258 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Registered Offices Footnotes for Note 37 48 MMG Tower, 23 floor Ave. Paseo del Mar Urbanizacion Costa del Este, 1 Management has determined that these undertakings are excluded from Panama consolidation in the Group accounts as these entities do not meet the definition of subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS.
HSBCs consolidation 49 Walkers Corporate Services Limited, Walker House, 87 Mary Street, George policy is described in Note 1.2 a.
Town, Grand Cayman KY1-9005, Cayman Islands 2 Directly held by HSBC Holdings plc 50 15 rue Vernet, Paris, France, 75008 3 Preference Shares 51 No.
1 1211 Yanjiang Zhong Road, Yongan, Fujian, China Description of Shares 52 83 Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong 53 Knigsallee 21 23, Dsseldorf, Germany, 40212 4 Actions 54 Bufete Tapia, PO Box 7412, Panama, Panama, 5 5 Redeemable Preference Shares 55 No.
44, Xin Ping Road Central, Encheng, Enping, Guangdong, China, 529400 6 GmbH Anteil 56 HSBC Holdings plc exercises control or significant influence over this 7 This undertaking is a partnership and does not have share capital undertaking notwithstanding its equity interest 8 Liquidating Share Class 57 34 F and 36 F, Hang Seng Bank Tower, 1000 Lujiazui Ring Road 27 F, 9 In the prior period the Group disclosed the immediate parent companys Shanghai Stock Exchange Bldg, 528 Pudong South Road, Shanghai, interest in this undertaking Shanghai, China, 200120 10 Non-Participating Voting Shares 58 11-17 Ludwig-Erhard-Str.
Hamburg, Germany, 20459 11 Parts 59 Akara Bldg.
24 fide Castro Street, Wickhams Cay I, Road Town, Tortola, British 12 Registered Capital Shares Virgin Islands 13 Russian Limited Liability Company Shares 60 The Corporation Trust Company of Nevada 311 S. Division Street, Carson 14 Stckaktien City, Nevada, United States, 89703 61 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 8UB 62 10th Floor, North Tower 2 Leboh Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50100 Registered Offices 63 13th Floor, South Tower 2 Leboh Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50100 15 Level 36 Tower 1 International Towers Sydney, 100 Barangaroo Avenue, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, 2000 64 21 Collyer Quay #13-02 HSBC Building, Singapore, 049320 65 Bouchard 557, Piso 18, Cdad.
Autnoma fide Buenos Aires, Argentina, 1106 16 Paseo fide la Reforma 347, Col. Cuauhtemoc, Mexico, 06500 66 52 60 M G Road, Fort, Mumbai, India, 400 001 17 8 Canada Square, London, United Kingdom, E14 5HQ 67 PO Box 513 HSBC House, 68 West Bay Road, George Town, Grand Cayman, 18 5 Donegal Square South, Belfast, Northern Ireland, BT1 5JP Cayman Islands, KY1-1102 19 Camden House West The Parade, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B1 3PY 68 Florida 229, 10, Ciudad fide Buenos Aires, Argentina, C1005AAE 20 Arnold House St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 3NF 69 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong 21 37 Front Street, Hamilton, Bermuda, HM 11 70 3rd Floor, Merchantile Bank Chamber 16, Veer Nariman Road, Fort, Mumbai, 22 PO Box 513 HSBC House, 68 West Bay Road, George Town, Grand Cayman, India, 400001 Cayman Islands, KY1-1106 71 Isidora Goyenechea 2800, 23rd floor, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile, 7550647 23 HSBC Main Building 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong 72 HSBC Building Shanghai ifc, 8 Century Avenue, Pudong, Shanghai, China, 24 First Floor, Xinhua Bookstore Xindong Road SE of roundabout, Miyun 200120 District, Beijing, China 73 6th floor, HSBC Centre, 18, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius 25 c o The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 74 2 Paveletskaya square, building 2, Moscow, Russian Federation, 115054 Delaware, United States, 19801 75 13F-14F, 333 Keelung Road, Sec.
1, Taipei, 110 26 CT Corporation System 1515 Market Street, Registered Office, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States, 19102 76 Rincon 391, Montevideo, Uruguay, 11000 77 The Metropolitan 235 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 27 CT Corporation System 800 S. Figueroa, Los Angeles, California, United States, 90017 78 Esentepe mah.
128 Istanbul 34394, Turkey 79 Florida 201, 10, Ciudad fide Buenos Aires, Argentina, C1005AAE 28 CT Corporation System 530 Gay Street, Knoxville, Tennessee, United States, 37902 80 66 Teryan street, Yerevan, Armenia, 0009 29 CT Corporation System Secretary of State, 707 Virginia Street East, 81 885 West Georgia Street Suite 300, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, Charleston, West Virginia, United States, 25301 V6C 3E9 30 CT Corporation System 1720 Carey Avenue, Cheyenne, Wyoming, United 82 306 Corniche El Nil, Maadi, Egypt, 11728 States, 82001 83 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE1 1HS 31 95 Washington Street, Buffalo, New York, United States, 14203 84 116 Archbishop Street, Valletta, Malta 32 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, United States, 19801 85 Level 1, Building No.
8, Gate Village Dubai International Financial Centre, PO Box 502601, United Arab Emirates 33 PO Box 1109 HSBC House, 68 West Bay Road, George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1-1102 86 Tour Crystal 1 10EME Etage BD Al Mohades, Casablanca, Morocco 34 Corporation Service Company 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Delaware, 87 Al Khuwair Office PO Box 1727 PC111 CPO Seeb, Muscat, Oman United States, 19808 88 Rondo ONZ 1, Warsaw, Poland, 00-124 35 Unsoeldstrasse 2, Munich, Germany, 80538 89 1800 Tysons Boulevard Suite 50, McLean, Virginia, United States, 22102 36 Solidere - Rue Saad Zaghloul Immeuble - 170 Marfaa, PO Box 17 5476 Mar Michael 11042040, Beyrouth, Lebanon 90 Rua Funchal, n 160, SP Corporate Towers, Torre Norte, 19 andar, cj 191A - Parte, So Paulo, Brazil, 04551-060 37 No 1, Bei Huan East Road Dazu County, Chongqing, China 91 300, 885 West Georgia Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, V6C 38 No 107, Ping Du Avenue E, Sanhe Town, Fengdu County, Chongqing, China 3E9 39 No.
3, 5, 7, Haitang Erzhi Road Changyuan, Rongchang, Chongqing, China, 92 c o Kross Border Trust Services Limited St. Louis Business Centre, Cnr 402460 Desroches & St Louis Streets, Port Louis, Mauritius 40 Hill House 1 Little New Street, London, United Kingdom, EC4A 3TR 93 49 avenue J. F. Kennedy, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, 1855 41 Bederstrasse 49, Zurich, Switzerland, CH-8002 94 4-17 F, Office Tower 2 TaiKoo Hui, No.
381 Tian He Road, Tian He District, 42 Rawlinson and Hunter Limited Woodbourne Hall, PO Box 3162, Road Town, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China Tortola, British Virgin Islands, VG1110 95 Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah Kwong Hing No.
1, Leboh Ampang, 43 15 Rue GFirst & Second Floor, No.
3 Nanshan Road, Pulandian, Dalian, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50100 Liaoning, China uynemer BP 412 Noumea 98845 Nouvelle Caldonie 96 HSBC, Filinvest One Bldg, Northgate Cyberzone, Filinvest Corporate City, 44 CT Corporation System 225 Hillsborough Street, Raleigh, North Carolina, Alabang, Muntinlupa City, Philippines United States, 27603 97 HSBC House Plot No.
64 Part, Hightec City Layout Madhapur, 45 39 rue fide Bassano, Paris, France, 75008 Hyderabad, India, 500081 46 103 avenue des Champs-Elyses, Paris, France, 75008 98 439, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha Welikada, Rajagiriya, Colombo, Sri 47 64 rue Galile, Paris, France, 75008 Lanka HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 259 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements Registered Offices Registered Offices 99 Smart Village 28th Km CairoAlexandria Desert Road Building, Cairo, Egypt 152 Palm Grove House PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 100 16 Boulevard d'Avranches, Luxembourg, L-1160 153 The Corporation Trust Company 820 Bear Tavern Road, West Trenton, New Jersey, United States, 08628 101 HSBC Chambers, Corner of Jalan Sultan Jalan Pemancha, Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei Darussalam, BS8811 154 Kapelanka 42A, Krakow, Poland, 30-347 102 Suite 300, 3381 Steeles Avenue East, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M2H 3S7 155 Suite 2400, 745 Thurlow Street, Vancouver, Canada, BC V6E 0C5 156 L22, Office Tower 2, Taikoo Hui, 381 Tianhe Road, Tianhe District, 103 Centre Ville 1341 Building - 4th Floor Patriarche Howayek Street facing Guangzhou, Guangdong, China Beirut Souks, PO Box Riad El Solh, Lebanon, 9597 157 HSBC Centre River Side, West Avenue, 25B Raheja woods, Kalyaninagar, 104 3rd Floor, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Building Al Souq Road, Bur Dubai, Pune, India, 411006 PO Box 4604, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 158 Level 19, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc 8 Century Avenue Pudong, Shanghai, 105 World Trade Center Montevideo Avenida Luis Alberto fide Herrera 1248, Torre China 1, Piso 15, Oficina 1502, Montevideo, Uruguay, CP 11300 159 Yorckstrae 21 - 23 40476, Duesseldorf, Germany 106 Level 12, HSBC Building 37, Chilpae-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea, Republic of 160 300 Delaware Avenue Suite 1401, Wilmington, Delaware, United States, 107 17 avenue d'Ostende, Monaco, 98000 19801 108 2910 Virtual Way, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, V5M 0B2 161 PO Box 484, Ground Floor, HSBC House 68 West Bay Road, Grand Cayman, 109 Immeuble Coeur Dfense 110, Esplanade du Gnral fide GaulleLa dfense KY1-1106, Cayman Islands 4, Courbevoie, France, 92400 162 c o HSBC Bank Mauritius Limited 6th Floor, HSBC Centre, 18 Cyber City, 110 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 8WP Ebene, Mauritius 111 HSBC Building 11-1, Nihonbashi 3-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan, 103-0027 163 Bouchard 680, 11, Ciudad fide Buenos Aires, Argentina, 1106 112 80 Mill Street, Qormi, Malta, QRM 3101 164 No.
56, Yu Rong Street, Macheng, China, 438300 113 Gartenstrasse 26, Zurich, Switzerland 165 No.
205, Lie Shan Road Suizhou, Hubei, China 114 24th Fl.
Taipei, Taiwan, Province of China 166 Building 3, Yin Zuo Di Jing Wan Tianmen New City, Tianmen, Hubei 115 452 Fifth Avenue 7th floor, New York NY10018, United States Province, China 116 Mareva House 4 George Street, Nassau, Bahamas 167 RM101, 102 & 106 Sunshine Fairview, Sunshine Garden, Pedestrian Walkway, Pingjiang, China 117 Breite Str.
29 31, Dsseldorf, Germany, 40213 118 37 Front Street, Hamilton, Bermuda, HM 11 168 6 rue Adolphe, Luxembourg, L-1116 119 1 Grand Canal Square Grand Canal Harbour, Dublin 2, D02 P820, Ireland 169 Kings Meadow Chester Business Park, Chester, United Kingdom, CH99 9FB 120 HSBC Centre Eighteen, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius 170 World Trade Center 1, Floor 8-9 Jalan Jenderal Sudirman Kavling 29-31, Jakarta, Indonesia, 12920 121 18th Floor, Tower 1 HSBC Centre, 1 Sham Mong Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong 171 4th Floor, World Trade Center, J1, Jend.
29-31, Jakarta, 122 Level 32, HSBC Main Building 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong Indonesia, 12920 123 452 Fifth Avenue, New York NY10018, United States 172 No.
198-2, Chengshan Avenue E, Rongcheng, China, 264300 124 9th Floor, HSBC Centre 3058 Fifth Avenue West, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City, Philippines 173 Woodbourne Hall, Road Town PO Box 3162, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 174 43 rue fide Paris, Saint Denis, 97400 125 16F 369 Zhongxiao East Road, Section 7, Nangang District, Taipei, Taiwan, Province of China, 115 175 RM 2112, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc No.
8 Century Road, Pudong, 126 1 More London Place, London, United Kingdom, SE1 2AF Shanghai, China, 200120 127 HSBC Building Minet El Hosn, Riad el Solh, Beirut 1107-2080, PO Box 176 Bykdere Cad.
No 124 kat 9 Oda 2 Esentepe ili Istanbul, Turkey 11-1380, Lebanon 177 11 Dr. Roys Drive PO Box 694GT, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1-1107 128 300 Delaware Avenue Suite 1400, Wilmington, Delaware, United States, 178 Philippe Kaiser Baarerstrasse 8, Zug, Switzerland, 6300 19801 179 109 avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris, France, 75008 129 Craigmuir Chambers, PO Box 71, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 180 Suite 8-3A, Menara RA, No.
18, Jalan Dataran SD2, Dataran SD, PJU 9, 130 Woodbourne Hall, Road Town PO Box 916, Tortola, British Virgin Islands Bandar Sri Damansara, 52200, Malaysia 131 9-11 Floors, NESCO IT Park Building No.
3 Western Express Highway, 181 17F, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc 8 Century Avenue, Pudong, Shanghai, Goregaon East, Mumbai, India, 400063 China 132 1441 Brickell Avenue, Miami, Florida, United States 33131 182 Maples Corporate Services Limited PO Box 309, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Cayman Islands, KY1-1104 133 MB&H Corporate Services Ltd Mareva House, 4 George Street, Nassau, Bahamas 183 18 F, HSBC Building, 8 Century Avenue China Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone, China, 200120 134 21 Farncombe Road, Worthing, United Kingdom, BN11 2BW 184 c o MUFG Fund Services Bermuda Limited The Belvedere Building, 69 Pitts 135 3303 Express Drive North, Islandia, New York, United States, 11749 Bay Road, Pembroke, Bermuda, HM08 136 Shop 4 & 5 Ground Floor & Mezzanine, Bldg.
of Hilal Salim Bin Tarraf, Al 186 21 Garlick Hill, London, United Kingdom, EC4V 2AU Wasel Area, Sheikh Zayed Road, PO Box 1956 Dubai, United Arab Emirates 187 c o Trident Trust Company Trident Chambers, PO Box 146, Tortola, British Virgin Islands 137 Precinct Building 4, Level 3 Dubai International Financial Centre, Dubai, United Arab Emirates, PO BOX 506553 188 No.
188, Yin Cheng Zhong Road China Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China 138 HSBC Bank Middle East Building - level 5, building 5, Emaar, Dubai, United Arab Emirates, 502601 189 49 F, The Lee Gardens, 33 Hysan Avenue, Hong Kong 139 HSBC House Level 9, One Queen Street, Auckland, New Zealand, 1010 190 13-15 York Buildings, London, United Kingdom, WC2N 6JU 140 Bykdere Cad.
122 D Blok Esentepe Sisli Istanbul, Turkey 191 Unit No.
208, 2nd Floor, Kanchenjunga Building 18 Barakhamba Road, New Delhi - 110001, India 141 c o The Corporation Trust Incorporated 351 West Camden Street, Baltimore, Maryland, United States, 21201 192 6th Floor 65 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7NQ 142 HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE1 1GT 195 Plot No.
89-90 Mbezi Industrial Area Box 347, Dar es Salaam City 143 Quai des Bergues 9-17, Geneva, Switzerland, 1201 196 37 avenue Henri Lafleur, Nouma, New Caledonia, BP K3 98849 144 Paseo fide la Reforma 359, 6th Floor, Mexico, 06500 197 1101-J46, 11 F, Nansha Financial Building 171 Haibin Road, Nansha District, Guangzhou, China 145 Bykdere Cad.
128 D Blok Esentepe Sisli Istanbul, Turkey 198 2-3 F, Unit 21A, Qianhai Enterprise Dream Park, No.
63 Qian Wan Yi Road, 146 Block 27 A&B, Qianhai Enterprise Dream Park No.
63 Qianwan Yi Road, Qianhai Shenzhen-Hongkong Cooperation Zone, Shenzhen, China Shenzhen-Hong Kong Cooperation Zone, Shenzhen, China, 518052 199 66 Wellington Street West, Suite 5300, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5K 1E6 147 St Nicholas House, 10th Floor Catholic Mission St Lagos, Nigeria 200 35 Great St Helens, London, United Kingdom, EC3A 6AP 148 Unit 1 GF The Commercial Complex Madrigal Avenue Ayala Alabang Village, Muntinlupa City, Philippines, 1770 201 HSBC Building 7267 Olaya - Al Murrooj, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 12283 - 2255 149 70 York Street 7th Floor, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5J 1S9 203 Level 3 Building 4, Gate District, Dubai International Financial Centre, Dubai, 150 7 F The Enterprise Centre - Tower I, 6766 Ayala Avenue corner Paseo fide United Arab Emirates Roxas, Makati City, Philippines 151 2 Exchange Square 85 Maude Street, Sandown, Sandton, South Africa, 2196 260 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Registered Offices 204 13th Floor, Lulu Center Building Salam Street, PO Box 44505, United Arab Emirates 205 833 Three Bentall Centre 595 Burrard Street, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, V7X 1C4 206 Jayla Place Wickhams Cay I, PO Box 3190, Road Town, British Virgin Islands 210 c o Hackwood Secretaries Limited One Silk Street, London, United Kingdom, EC2Y 8HQ 211 Prince Abdulaziz Ibn Mossaad Ibn Jalawi Street, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 212 75 Park Lane, Croydon, Surrey, United Kingdom, CR9 1XS 213 Ground Floor, Office Block A Bay Studio Business Park, Fabian Way, Swansea, Wales, United Kingdom, SA1 8QB 214 Ground Floor, Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 2HT 215 32 Rue du Champ fide Tir, 44300 NANTES 216 1020-885 West Georgia Street, Vancouver BC, V6C3E8 217 11 F, J46 of Room1101, Nansha Financial Mansion, No.
171 Haibin Road, Nansha Area, Guangzhou, China 218 Rahejas, 4th Floor, Corner of Main Avenue & V. P Road, Santacruz West Mumbai - 400 054 219 717 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10022 220 10 rue Jean Jaurs BP Q5 Noumea 98845 Nouvelle Caldonie 221 15 rue Guynemer BP 412 Noumea 98845 Nouvelle Caldonie 222 Herrengasse 1-3, 1010 Wien, Austria 223 2156 Horse Prairie Drive, Henderson NV 89052 United States 224 2 North Jackson Street, Suite 605, Montgomery AL, 36104 United States 225 2222 Grand Avenue, Des Moines IA 50312 United States 226 c o The Corporation Trust Company, 100 S. 5th Street-Suite 1075 Minneapolis MN 55401, United States 227 545 Washington Blvd.
11th Floor Jersey City NJ 07310 United States HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 261 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
