Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Directors' Report 169 Share capital Authority to purchase shares The Companys issued share capital comprises a single class of At the 2017 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution authorising ordinary shares, all of which are listed on the London and New York thepurchase of up to 114.4m ordinary shares in the Company stock exchanges.
All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary shares by additional obligations or special rights.
Each share carries the right market purchase.
During the year, 23,122,499 ordinary shares 51 to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
with a nominal value of 14 p representing 2.0% of the ordinary 116 shares in issue on 31 December 2017 were purchased under this In a general meeting, subject to any rights and restrictions attached and the previous authority, for a total consideration of 371m, to any shares, on a show of hands every member who is present in including expenses, and subsequently transferred to be held in person shall have one vote and every proxy present who has been treasury.
Thepurpose of the share buyback is to reduce the capital duly appointed by one or more members entitled to vote on the of theCompany.
resolution has one vote although a proxy has one vote for and one vote against the resolution if: i the proxy has been duly appointed by On 27 December 2017, the Company cancelled 22.46m ordinary more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution: and ii the shares held in treasury.
Therefore, as at 31 December 2017 there proxy has been instructed by one or more of those members to vote were 60,077,786 ordinary shares held in treasury, representing for the resolution and by one or more other of those members to 5.3% of the issued ordinary shares.
A further 3,304,631 ordinary vote against it.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares were purchased between 2 January 2018 and the date of shares, on a vote on a resolution on a poll every member present in this report.
The authority to make market purchases will expire at person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he the 2018 AGM, at which a resolution to further extend the authority she is the holder.
will be submitted to shareholders.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by Substantial share interests the registrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting.
As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified by the There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on following shareholders that they held an interest of 3% or more the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general in voting rights of its issued share capital pursuant to Rule 5 of provisions of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Company the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR : is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may Notifications received as at 31 December 2017 % of voting rights result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights attached to the shares.
BlackRock Inc 9.62% Invesco Limited 5.03% At the 2017 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution authorising the Directors to issue shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis Legal & General Group plc 3.40% up to a nominal value of 8.2m, representing less than 5% of the The percentage interests stated above are as disclosed at the date Companys issued share capital, and authorising the Directors on which the interests were notified to the Company.
to issue up to an additional 5% of the issued share capital for cash on anon-pre-emptive basis in connection with an acquisition or Between 31 December 2017 and 14 February 2018, the Company specified investment.
Since the 2017 AGM, no shares have been did not receive any notifications under DTR 5. issued under this authority.
The shareholder authority also permitted the Directors to issue shares in order to satisfy Employee benefit Trust entitlements under employee share plans, and details of such The trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust held an interest in allotments are noted below.
The authorities to issue shares will 3,493,817 ordinary shares in the Company representing 0.3% of the expire at the 2018 AGM.
Two separate resolutions to extend the issued ordinary shares as at 31 December 2017.
The trustee may authorities will be proposed at the 2018 AGM: i to authorise the vote or abstain from voting any shares it holds in any way it sees fit.
Directors to issue shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis up to5% of the issued share capital and to satisfy entitlements under significant agreements change of control employee share plans: and ii to authorise the Directors to issue The Governing Agreement between RELX PLC and RELX NV states upto 5% of the issued share capital for cash on a non-pre-emptive that, upon a change of control of RELX PLC for these purposes, the basis in connection with an acquisition or specified investment acquisition by a third party of 50% or more of the issued share subject to certain conditions in accordance with the Pre-Emption capital having voting rights, should there not be a comparable offer Groups Statement of Principles.
from the offeror for RELX NV, RELX NV may serve notice upon the Company varying certain provisions of the Governing Agreement, During the year, 2,019,483 ordinary shares in the Company were including the governance and the standstill provisions.
issued inorder to satisfy entitlements under employee share plans as follows: 717,932 under a UK Sharesave option scheme There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit at prices between 410.80p and 1251.20p per share: and 1,301,551 facilities that, in the event of a change of control of both the Company under executive share option schemes at prices between 466.50p and RELX NV and, in some cases, a consequential credit rating and 1494.50p per share.
downgrade to sub-investment grade may, at the option of the lenders, require repayment and or cancellation as appropriate.
The issued share capital as at 31 December 2017 is shown in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Articles The Companys Articles of Association, which were not amended during the year, may only be amended by a special resolution of shareholders passed at a general meeting of the Company.
170 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Appointment and replacement of Directors Financial Instruments The appointment, re-appointment and replacement of Directors The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, is governed by the Companys Articles, the Governing Agreement including hedging activities and exposure to risks, are described in between RELX PLC and RELX NV, the Companies Act 2006 and note 19 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 147 to 152. related legislation.
RELX PLC shareholders maintain their right toappoint and re-appoint Directors by way of an ordinary Political donations resolution in accordance with the Articles.
However, no individual The Group does not make donations to European Union EU political may be appointed to the Board unless recommended by the joint organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
In the US, Group Nominations Committee of RELX PLC and RELX NV.
Subject to this companies donated 62,791 2016: 74,264 to political restriction, the Directors may appoint additional or replacement organisations.
In line with US law, these donations were not made at Directors, who may only serve until the following AGM of the federal level, but only to candidates and political parties at the state Company, at which time they must retire and, if appropriate, seek and local levels.
election by the Companys shareholders.
A Director may be removed from office by the Company as provided for by applicable Employee relations law, in certain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles, The Group is committed to employee involvement and participation.
andat a general meeting of the Company by the passing of an Where appropriate, major announcements are communicated to ordinary resolution.
Information on performance, development, organisational changes and other matters of interest The Articles provide for a Board of Directors consisting of not is communicated through briefings and electronic bulletins.
fewer than two, but not more than 20 Directors, who manage the The Company is an equal opportunity employer and does not business and affairs of the Company.
discriminate on the grounds of race, gender or other characteristics in its recruitment or employment policies.
The Group seeks Powers of Directors opinions from employees through a triennial survey.
The last Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys employee survey was carried out in 2015.
Certain employees Articles and any directions given by special resolutions, the throughout the Group are eligible to participate in the Groups business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which share incentive plans.
mayexercise all the powers of the Company.
Disabled persons Directors indemnity RELX Group has a positive approach to diversity and inclusion.
In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted Directors Details of the Groups Diversity and Inclusion Statement are set out an indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of liabilities on page 46, which is incorporated into this Directors Report by incurred as a result of their office.
This indemnity was in place for reference.
The Group is committed to the full and fair treatment Directors that served at any time during the 2017 financial year, ofpeople with disabilities in relation to job applications, training, and also for each serving Director as at the date of approval of this promotion and career development.
The Company also purchased and maintained throughout become disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment, the year Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of support and training wherever practicable.
Disclosures required under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Related party transactions The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 is set out on the Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party pages below: transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an arms-length basis and are properly recorded Information required Page anddisclosed where appropriate.
1 Interest capitalised by the Group n a 2 Publication of unaudited financial information n a Conicts of interest Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have a duty to 4 Long-term incentive schemes n a avoid situations in which they have, or could have, a direct or 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director n a indirect interest that conflicts with the interests of the Company.
6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director n a The Board has established formal procedures for identifying, assessing and reviewing any situations where a Director has 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer n a an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the 8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash major subsidiaries n a interests of the Company.
9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary n a The Nominations Committee considers any such conflict or 10 Contracts of significance n a potential conflict and makes a recommendation to the Board 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder n a on whether to authorise it, as permitted under the Companys 12 Shareholder waiver of dividends 141 Articles.
In reaching its decision, the Board is required to act in a way it considers would be most likely to promote the success 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividends 141 of the Company and may impose limits or conditions when 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders n a giving its authorisation, if it thinks this is appropriate.
Actual or potential conflicts of interest are reviewed annually by the Nominations Committee.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Directors' Report 171 Financial statements and accounting records the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report and performance of the business and the position of the Group, and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law together with a description of the principal risks and andregulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Having taken into account all the matters considered by the Board statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors and brought to the attention of the Board during the year, the arerequired to prepare the consolidated financial statements Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the IFRS as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys The Directors have elected to prepare the individual company position and performance, business model and strategy.
financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue the Company and ofthe profit or loss of the Company for that period.
or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in In preparing the individual company financial statements, the accordance with Section 90A of the Financial Services and Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and MarketsAct 2000. then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether Financial Disclosure of information to auditors Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework has been In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and Director in office at the date the Directors Report is approved, explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial confirms that: statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit presume that the Company will continue in business.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and In preparing the Group financial statements, IAS1 requires that he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant information, including accounting policies, in a manner that audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable are aware of that information.
information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS are insufficient to enable users Going concern tounderstand the impact of particular transactions, other events The Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of adopting and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial the going concern basis of accounting is set out on page 79, which performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability isincorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Long-term viability statement The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The Directors statement regarding the long-term viability of the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Group is set out on page 80, which is incorporated into this Directors transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Report by reference.
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention auditors of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee, and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
onbehalf of the Board, to determine their remuneration will be submitted to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Directors responsibility statement Each of the Directors, whose names and roles can be found on By order of the Board pages 66 to 67, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance Henry Udow with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by Company Secretary the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted 14 February 2018 bythe European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: Registered Ofce the individual company financial statements, prepared in 1-3 Strand accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced London Disclosure Framework FRS 101, give a true and fair view WC2N 5JR of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and
