142 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 15 Goodwill Accounting policy On the acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the purchase consideration is allocated between the net tangible and intangible assets on a fair value basis, with any excess purchase consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions also includes amounts corresponding to deferred tax liabilities recognised in respect of acquired intangible assets.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment when there is an indicator that the asset may be impaired and at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary or business, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss ondisposal.
At each statement of financial position date, the carrying amounts of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, value in use estimates are made based on the cash ows of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is any indication that the asset may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its net carrying amount, the net carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately inthe income statement in administration and other expenses.
Critical judgement and key source of estimation uncertainty The carrying amounts of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets in each business are reviewed for impairment at least annually.
The carrying amounts of all other intangible assets are reviewed where there are indications of possible impairment.
Animpairment review involves a comparison of the carrying value of the asset with estimated values in use based on the latest management cash ow projections, approved by the Boards.
Key areas of judgement in estimating the values in use of businesses are the growth in cash ows over a forecast period of up to five years, the long-term growth rate assumed thereafter and the discount rate applied to the forecast cash ows.
A description of the key assumptions and sensitivities is provided below.
2017 2016 m m At start of year 6,392 5,231 Acquisitions 77 222 Disposals reclassied as held for sale 72 19 Transfers 11 Exchange translation differences 443 958 At end of year 5,965 6,392 Transfers relate to movements in goodwill as a result of the nalisation of the accounting for prior year acquisitions.
The carrying amount of goodwill is after cumulative amortisation of 1,173m 2016: 1,284m, which was charged prior to the adoption ofIFRS, and 9m 2016: 9m of subsequent impairment charges recorded in prior years.
Impairment review Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets is performed at least annually in accordance with the methodology described above.
There were no charges for impairment of goodwill in 2017 2016: nil: 2015: nil.
Goodwill is compiled and assessed among groups of cash generating units, which represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by management.
Typically, acquisitions are integrated into existing business units, and the goodwill arising is allocated to the groups of cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
As the business areas have become increasingly integrated and globalised, the current CGU allocation reects the global leverage of assets, skills, knowledge and technology platforms, and the monitoring of goodwill by management.
