Our operating environment Our operating environment Key influences in our operating environment Our ability to serve customers and external stakeholder engagement create value for the long term is heavily and review of internal and external influenced by the environment in which sources.
These considerations have we operate.
Every year we assess the potential to influence our ability to the importance of these influences serve customers and create value for both in terms of their relevance to our the long term.
They carry both risks stakeholders including customers, and opportunities, driven by a mixture investors, UK government, employees of direct commercial impact and and civil society and their potential stakeholder interest as a result of wider commercial impact on us.
An assessment of the most In the following pages, each influence is important influences in our operating briefly described together with selected environment are detailed below.
The highlights in 2017 and with guidance on influences have been identified through where you can find more information various means, including, internal and on that key influence.
Long term and Current priority considerations emerging considerations Trust in the Health of the UK banking sector and global economy Financial Privacy Conduct Political landscape capability Support for enterprise Social inequality and financial Climate Diversity, equality Banking Competition exclusion change and inclusion regulation and innovation Housing Executive pay Skills and capability of staff UK infrastructure Changing customer needs Commercial impact High Critical considerations that support our ambition to be No.
1 for customer service, trust and advocacy Employee engagement Ethics, culture Customer Operational Strength and and wellbeing and integrity service competence stability 38 Stakeholder interest High Influences explained and where to find out more.
Where to find out more Chairman 2017 Business Our Our Our Key Risk Sustainable and CEO Performance model and Stakeholders Colleagues Customers economic overview Banking pages review Summary strategy indicators on rbs.
com Where to find Key Influences Definition Selected highlights in 2017 out more Critical considerations that support our ambition to be No.
1 for customer service, trust and advocacy Customer Delivering excellent customer Approximately 5.5 million active users regularly benefit from service service is essential for the banking the speed and convenience of our mobile banking app with sector to build trust.
and growing a loyal and satisfied Closed Loop Feedback provides us real-time feedback from customer base requires an our customers which we are listening to, learning from and appropriate digital and physical acting on every day.
presence and clear distribution Rolled out a Service Excellence programme, to further strategy.
Employee Employee engagement and Our View, the banks annual employee feedback survey wellbeing & satisfaction is highly correlated showed that engagement is up by seven percentage points to engagement with overall performance.
A 83% compared with 2016, the highest level since 2002. key determinant of the banks Launched Building a great place to work to support our success will be ensuring all of its commitment to giving our employees a fulfilling career, fair employees are clear on their roles pay, relevant training and good leadership.
and responsibilities, capable and Actively supported Mental Health Awareness Week, enabling feel motivated to do the best job employees to speak more openly about mental health and possible.
Ethics, culture Professional integrity is a key Improved our position in the latest Banking Standards Board and integrity governance consideration in BSB survey, which seeks to promote high standards of the banking sector.
Services behaviour and competence across the UK banking industry.
provided must satisfy the highest RBS improved in all nine BSB survey categories compared professional standards, avoid with 2016 results and in quartile performance against its conflicts of interest, bias, or peer group.
negligence, and ensure that all Employed the greatest number of UK employees with stakeholders, including employees, professional banking qualifications.
RBS employs more contractors and business partners, bankers with a professional banking qualification from the are treated fairly and equally.
Chartered Banker Institute than any other UK financial institution.
Members are required to comply with the annual CPD requirements of the professional body.
The Chartered Banker Institute is the UKs only and worlds oldest professional body for banking.
Speak Up, our whistleblowing service, received 289 reports compared to 213 reports in 2016.
The service allows employees to raise concerns in a safe and supportive environment so that potential issues can be addressed quickly and effectively.
Operational Delivering appropriate digital RBS is a founding partner of Friends Against Scams, the competence infrastructure is important to National Trading Standards Scams Teams fraud and scams ensure a technically-able bank awareness initiative.
More than 20,000 colleagues have that supports its long-term future.
Cyber security is also a vital part Improved the in-branch digital experience with TechXperts of providing a safe and secure in every branch to advise and support customers on how to banking service.
Banks need to have a secure online banking experience.
The in-branch wi-fi proactively identify and manage capability has also been improved.
risks and efficiencies in their There has been a sustained improvement in the number of operations and facilities.
customers impacted by fraud with a 26% reduction compared with 2016.
Resilient, simple and efficient systems are critical to building the number one bank for customer service, trust and advocacy.
Our systems are available 99.9% of the time.
Strength and Banks need to demonstrate their The CET1 ratio increased by 250 basis points to 15.9% in 2017 stability ability to survive financial stress despite absorbing significant additional legacy costs.
arising from economic turmoil, and RWAs reduced by 27 billion 12%, ending the year at potential large scale fines and legal 201 billion from 228 billion in 2016.
This reduction was cases resulting from historic events.
driven by NatWest Markets, where RWAs fell by 16.8 billion They must also demonstrate they due to the continued run-off of the legacy business and have sufficient capital, liquidity and mitigation activities in the core business, together with active resilience as well as the ability to management of the lending book in Commercial Banking.
A key milestone in our ring-fencing journey was achieved through the application to the Court of Session in Edinburgh to initiate a Ring-Fencing Transfer Scheme so as to carry out a legal transfer of some of our business.
39 Our operating environment Where to find Key Influences Definition Selected highlights in 2017 out more Current Priority Considerations Banks continue to operate in an RBS continues to deliver on its plan to build a strong, simple environment where regulatory and fair bank for both customers and shareholders.
To support Banking change is frequent and increasingly this, and in preparation for the UK ring-fencing regime, the regulation complex requiring significant time previously reported operating segments were realigned in Q4 and resources.
2017 and a number of business transfers completed.
Refer to the Report of the directors for further details.
NatWest Markets aligned the majority of Functions and Services employees in 2017 in preparation for operating as a non-ring-fenced bank.
RBS Group published a Tax Strategy.
Regulatory changes that RBS worked on in 2017 included MiFID II MiFIR, Open Banking and reform of capital and liquidity regulations.
Conduct Banks remain focused on putting in A settlement with the Federal Housing Finance Agency FHFA place measures to prevent issues and the California State Attorney General in the US was related to conduct.
time, legacy conduct issues, such The 2008 rights issue shareholder litigation was resolved.
as RMBS, continue to have major financial and reputational impacts.
Competition and The banking sector is going through Partnered with FreeAgent, an Edinburgh-based Fintech Innovation a period of rapid change with that provides online accounting software, to help our small regulatory and technological trends business customers track their finances and report their taxes converging to increase competition.
Together with accelerating Introduced a chat bot called Cora that answers questions innovation, the UK implementation from customers 24 7, freeing up colleagues time so that of the Open Banking Standards they can help customers with more complex queries.
Cora raises the potential for significant currently handles over 100,000 customer conversations per disruption of the traditional banking month across our web and online channels.
Plans are in place for Open Banking, including customer education around security awareness.
Diversity, The inclusion agenda is quickly Made progress against our 2020 targets on our four priorities: equality & moving up the corporate agenda Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender LGBT, Gender inclusion and driving the need to foster Balanced, Disability Smart, Ethnically Diverse.
corporate cultures that value Supported the International Day of Persons with Disability diversity, teamwork, quality sharing stories across the bank and with customers.
Recorded an increase in the total number of female leaders within our top three senior layers, including the appointment of two new female non-executive board directors.
RBS was named a Times Top 50 employer for Women and rated as a Stonewall Top Global Employer.
Health of the The outlook for the UK and global The UK economy grew by 1.8% in 2017, down slightly from 1.9% UK and global economy remains uncertain due in 2016, below the long-run average of more than 2%.
economy to a number of factors including: The main development in 2017 was higher inflation.
Along with the UKs vote to leave in the weak wage growth it meant that households incomes were EU referendum, wider political squeezed.
instability, an extended period of The eurozone economy was 2.7% larger in the final quarter low interest rates, high debt levels of 2017 than in the same period of 2016, up from 1.8% in 2016. and delays in normalising monetary Unemployment fell but remained high at 8.7%.
The job market remained buoyant with 1.8 million jobs added during the year and the unemployment rate falling to 4.1%.
Political Political risks continue to evolve In 2017 NatWest Markets announced its plan to repurpose the landscape with the UKs vote to leave in existing licence in the Netherlands in the event of loss of EU the EU referendum creating passporting as a result of the UKs departure from the EU.
significant economic, political and We engage the UK Government and opposition political parties regulatory uncertainty.
Heightened to understand their priorities for the sector.
geopolitical tensions and rising populism in advanced economies have also contributed towards a rise in uncertainty.
40 Our operating environment Where to find Key Influences Definition Selected highlights in 2017 out more Privacy As a bank our customers not only The bank takes privacy and the protection of customers trust us with their finances but and employee data very seriously, and has worked with also with their information.
It is other banks to make sure it is factored into the Open Baking therefore important that we deal architecture.
with their information the right The new General Data Protection Regulation GDPR way.
By doing the right thing in comes into effect on 25 May 2018 and brings a new era in meeting the privacy expectations safeguarding personal data by businesses.
of our employees, customers and The bank has been preparing for GDPR since April 2016. shareholders we build confidence, The GDPR grants new and enhanced rights for individuals which in turn builds trust and in relation to their personal information and, as 25 May therefore has a tangible influence approaches, the bank will communicate more fully with on delivering the banks ambition to customers and clients about these changes and how they be No.
1 for customer service, trust can exercise their rights.
Skills and Financial services companies face Delivered the Entrepreneurial Development Academy, a capability competition for skilled employees, programme designed in partnership with E-Spark, specifically of staff in particular with specific skillsets for RBS employees to develop an entrepreneurial mindset.
As the industry transforms Over 5,900 employees participated in the programme.
to more digital banking, the need Over 64,600 employees underwent training by the Chartered for such skills may become more Banker Professional Standards Board CB:PSB with 94% of acute.
applicable staff achieving the CB:PSB Foundation Standard.
Introduced a new tool to help our people learn and develop for example career development days and mobile learning.
RBS was recognised as a Top 5 Apprentice UK Employer.
Support for A healthy economy needs a pipeline Rolled out ESME, a digital platform which offers SMEs the enterprise of new and growing businesses ability to digitally obtain loans quickly, potentially within an to spur innovation and growth.
Entrepreneurs, start-ups and Launched Pitch App to help entrepreneurs communicate with small businesses require particular impact.
support in terms of financing and Entrepreneurial Spark opened an accelerator hub in London, building market share.
our 12 accelerators are now in every region of the UK.
Trust in the Trust in traditional large UK Customer trust in NatWest in England & Wales has met its banking sector banks often lags behind smaller 2017 target of 57%, improving from 55% at Q4 2016 to 57% competitors and new market at Q4 2017. entrants.
Rebuilding trust remains a Trust in RBS in Scotland has increased strongly year on year key challenge.
Our Board Sustainable Banking Committee hosted stakeholder engagement sessions and two retail shareholder events.
Housing Demand for housing in some Board Sustainable Banking Committee held a stakeholder parts of the UK and Republic of engagement session on housing, inviting a variety of external Ireland outstrips supply, reducing stakeholder groups to share their perspectives with us.
affordability and harming family Your Mortgage Awards 2016 - 2017: Best First-Time Buyer disposable incomes.
What Mortgage Awards 2017: Best National Bank, Best Lender Customer Service.
Gross new mortgage lending of 33.9 billion in UK PBB, Ulster Bank RoI, Private Banking and RBSI.
Long term and emerging considerations Changing Customer needs are changing and 68% of our personal customers are active across our mobile customer needs different types of customer often and online banking platforms.
have significantly different banking Launched Strategic Account Opening meaning our personal customers can open an account in five minutes.
In order to be attractive Launched the UKs first ever paperless mortgage - customers and useful, financial products can now apply for a completely digital mortgage which uses and services need to fit in with the latest technology to securely share and verify documents customers lives and be flexible online.
to differing levels of digital and Our Home Insurance Quote and Buy system gives customers financial understanding.
cover in less than fifteen minutes.
One of the first large UK banks to launch robo-investment advice service through NatWest Invest.
41 Where to find Key Influences Definition Selected highlights in 2017 out more Climate change The Paris Agreement provides a RBS has pledged its support to the Task Force on Climateframework by which the world will related Financial Disclosures TCFD.
seek to prevent dangerous climate Board Sustainable Banking Committee held a stakeholder change but further challenges engagement session on Climate risk, inviting a variety of remain.
Climate change presents external stakeholders groups to share their perspectives both physical and transition risks.
The transition to a low carbon We have been recognised by InfraDeals as the leading lender economy is also presenting to the UK renewables sector by number of transactions over opportunities for low carbon the past six years 2012- 2017. sectors of the economy.
There are Set a new carbon reduction target using a science-based also increasing regulatory and method, aligning our ambition with the Paris Climate stakeholder expectations of banks Agreement.
Executive pay Shareholders, employees and Bonus pools have fallen by around 75% since 2010, aligned the general public have shown with the restructuring that has taken place and the actions increasing concerns about the taken by Group Performance and Remuneration Committee.
inequality in pay in large companies Remuneration is allocated over a multi year basis, with the between senior executives and the ability to apply malus and clawback to encourage good general workforce.
Introduction of a new policy for Executive Directors in 2017, with significantly lower maximum award levels and with increased shareholding requirements.
Financial A customers ability to manage MoneySense, our financial education programme for 5 to 18 capability money well, both day to day and year olds, won Digital Information Product of the Year PPA through significant life events, Digital Awards in recognition of how it has adapted to the and their ability to handle periods digital age with engaging and interactive content to support of financial difficulty.
It focuses teachers and parents.
on developing financial skills Completed over one million Financial Health Checks in 2017. and knowledge, attitudes, and motivation, which can help customers avoid falling into financial difficulty and can improve their financial health and well being.
Social inequality The increasing gap between rich Helped over 680,000 customers in financial hardship find a & financial and poor and the rising cost of living solution to their debt problem.
exclusion means many UK consumers find Provided over 27,500 customers with breathing space themselves in precarious financial and extra time for them to find support and to put in place a situations and are struggling repayment arrangement.
to manage their money day to Innovative Citizens Advice partnership, where Citizens Advice day.
This, with future economic colleagues are located within one of our Specialist Support uncertainty, may well lead to teams providing independent advice to over 900 of our most increased bad debt and over vulnerable customers.
In addition millions In partnership with the Money Advice Trust, we developed do not have access to mainstream industry leading Addictions Training for our colleagues and financial services such as free use across the sector.
ATMs, credit, and banking products together with lack of digital footprint and skills and are forced to rely on high-cost products.
UK The UK has a significant need Banks like RBS have a key role supporting this investment, infrastructure for new infrastructure, such as through lending and sourcing global capital markets financing.
energy, transport and project finance.
Banks have an important role in supporting infrastructure investment across the UK.
Independent assurance The accuracy and completeness of the sustainability The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc appointed Ernst & Young performance indicators listed below: LLP to provide limited independent assurance over selected Value of attempted fraud prevented in the UK sustainability content within the Strategic Report the Report, Total gender balance in top 3 senior layers as at and for the period ended 31 December 2017.
The assurance Total number of people supported through our engagement was planned and performed in accordance with the enterprise programmes International Standard for Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 % personal customers who are digitally active Revised, Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews Total number of Financial Health Checks of Historical Financial Information.
Banking Standards Board survey results % of staff who received CB:PSB standards certification These procedures were designed to conclude on: Total scope 1 and 2 location based CO e emissions and The consistency of selected narrative claims on sustainability 2 Scope 3 emissions from business travel.
with underlying performance information, and: An unqualified opinion was issued and is available on rbs.
com, along with further details of the scope, respective responsibilities, work performed, limitations and conclusions.
Keeping the UK economy moving Whether its supporting tourism or business, and creating local jobs, airports provide an essential service and play a vital role in the UK economy.
Were helping to support infrastructure projects right across the UK, including airports.
By giving them access to the funding they need to invest in their future and enhance the passenger experience, were playing our part keeping people, goods and the economy moving.
Weve helped Gatwick with seven bond issuances including its September issue of 350 million 22-year bonds: prepared Manchester Airports Group for its first bond issuance since 2014, and provided long-term debt financing for Leeds Bradford and London Luton airports.
Reflecting on the support he received in 2017, Neil Thompson, Chief Financial Officer for Manchester Airport Group says: We were delighted to work with NatWest for the launch of this important bond transaction.
The bond will form a key part of the companys capital structure to fund future growth of Manchester Airport Groups airports.
