180 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FURTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS APP: Airport Property Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture between SEGRO Passing rent: The annual rental income currently receivable on a property andAviva Investors, which was dissolved in 2017 when SEGRO acquired as at the Balance Sheet date which may be more or less than the Avivas 50 per cent interest in the portfolio.
Excludes rental income where a rent free period is in operation.
Excludes service charge income which is netted off against service Completed portfolio: The completed investment properties and the charge expenses.
Groupsshare of joint ventures completed investment properties.
Includes properties held throughout the period, completed developments and Pre-let: A lease signed with an occupier prior to commencing construction of properties acquired during the period.
Development pipeline: The Groups current programme of developments REIT: A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as a Real Estate authorised or in the course of construction at the Balance Sheet date Current Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the UK, such entities must be listed on Pipeline, together with potential schemes not yet commenced on land owned a recognised stock exchange, must be predominantly engaged in property or controlled by the Group Future Pipeline.
investment activities and must meet certain ongoing qualifications.
SEGRO plc and its UK subsidiaries achieved REIT status with effect from 1 January 2007.
EPRA: The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry body, which has issued Best Practices Recommendations in order to provide Rent-free period: An incentive provided usually at commencement of a consistency and transparency in real estate reporting across Europe.
lease during which a customer pays no rent.
The amount of rent free is the difference between passing rent and headline rent.
Estimated cost to completion: Costs still to be expended on a development orredevelopment to practical completion, including attributable interest.
Rent roll: See Passing Rent.
Estimated rental value ERV : The estimated annual market rental value SELP: SEGRO European Logistics Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture between oflettable space as determined biannually by the Groups valuers.
SEGRO and Public Sector Pension Investment Board PSP Investments This willnormally be different from the rent being paid.
established in 2013 to own big box warehouses in Continental Europe.
Gearing: Net borrowings divided by total shareholders equity excluding SIIC: Socits dinvestissements Immobiliers Cotes are the French equivalent of UK Real Estate Investment Trusts seeREIT.
intangible assets and deferred tax provisions.
Gross rental income: Contracted rental income recognised in the period in the Speculative development: Where a development has commenced prior toalease agreement being signed in relation to that development.
Income Statement, including surrender premiums.
Lease incentives, initial costs and any contracted future rental increases are amortised on a straight-line basis Square metres sq m : The area of buildings measurements used in this over the lease term.
The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is onesquare metre Headline rent: The annual rental income currently receivable on a property as 10.7639 square feet.
at the Balance Sheet date which may be more or less than the ERV ignoring Takeback: Rental income lost due to lease expiry, exercise of break option, any rent-free period.
Hectares Ha : The area of land measurement used in this analysis.
Topped up net initial yield: Net initial yield adjusted to include notional rent in The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is 1 hectare 2.471 acres.
respect of let properties which are subject to a rent free period at the valuation date.
This is in accordance with EPRAs Best Practices Recommendations.
IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards, the standards under which SEGRO reports its financial accounts.
Total property return TPR : A measure of the ungeared return for the portfolio and is calculated as the change in capital value, less any capital expenditure Investment property: Completed land and buildings held for rental income return and or capital appreciation.
incurred, plus net income, expressed as a percentage of capital employed over the period concerned, as calculated by MSCI Real Estate and excluding land.
Joint venture: An entity in which the Group holds an interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more partners under a contractual Total shareholder return TSR : A measure of return based upon share price movement over the period and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
arrangement whereby decisions on financial and operating policies essential to the operation, performance and financial position of the venture require each Trading property: Property being developed for sale or one which is being held partners consent.
for sale after development is complete.
Loan to value LTV : Net borrowings divided by the carrying value of total Yield on cost: The expected gross yield based on the estimated current market property assets investment, owner occupied, trading properties and, if rental value ERV of the developments when fully let, divided by the book appropriate, assets held for sale on the balance sheet.
This is reported on a value of the developments at the earlier of commencement ofthe development look-through basis including joint ventures at share.
or the balance sheet date plus future development costs and estimated finance MSCI-IPD: MSCI Real Estate calculates the IPD indices of real estate costs tocompletion.
Yield on new money: The yield on cost excluding the book value of land if the Net initial yield: Passing rent less non-recoverable property expenses such as land is owned by the Group in the reporting period prior to commencement ofthe development.
empty rates, divided by the property valuation plus notional purchasers costs.
Net rental income: Gross rental income less ground rents paid, net service charge expenses and property operating expenses.
Net true equivalent yield: The internal rate of return from an investment property, based on the value of the property assuming the current passing rent reverts to ERV and assuming the property becomes fully occupied over time.
It assumes that rent is received quarterly in advance.
The printer and paper mill are both accredited with ISO14001 Registered office SEGRO plc Environmental Management System and are both Forest Cunard House Stewardship Council certified.
15 Regent Street London SW1Y 4LR CPI Colour is a Carbon Neutral printing company.
Registered in Designed and produced by www.
com England and Wales Registered number 167591 Go online To keep up to date with SEGRO, you can source facts and figures about the Group through the various sections on our website and sign up for email alerts for fast communication ofbreaking news.
Financial reports, shareholder information and property analysis are frequently updated and our current share price isalways displayed on the Home Page.
As well as featuring detailed information about available property throughout the portfolio, www.
com now also includes a dedicated property search function making it easy for potential customers, or their agents, to find business space that fits their requirement exactly.
SEGROs performance in areas such as sustainability and customer careare also featured on the site, www.
Other publications Additional disclosures on our property portfolio can be found in the 2017 Property Analysis Report at www.
Our CSR policies, reporting guidelines, assurance statementsand further case studies can be found atwww.
Forward-looking statements The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to SEGROs expectations and plans, strategy, management objectives, future developments and performances, costs, revenues and other trend information.
These statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond SEGROs ability to control or estimate precisely and which could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardlooking statements.
Certain statements have been made with reference to forecast process changes, economic conditions and the current regulatory environment.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of SEGRO are based upon the knowledge and information available to Directors on the date of this Annual Report.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and SEGROs shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, SEGRO does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Past share performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
The information in this Annual Report does not constitute an offer to sell or an invitation to buy securities in SEGRO plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other investment activities.
