com Notes to the financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies Beazley plc registered number 09763575 is a company incorporated in England and Wales and is resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom.
The companys registered address is Plantation Place South, 60 Great Tower Street, London EC3R 5AD, United Kingdom.
The group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 comprise the parent company, its subsidiaries and the groups interest in associates.
The principal activity of the company and its subsidiaries the group is to participate as a specialist insurer which transacts primarily in commercial lines of business through its subsidiaries and through Lloyds syndicates.
The financial statements of the parent company, Beazley plc, and the group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
On publishing the parent company financial statements together with the group financial statements, the company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual statement of profit or loss and related notes that form a part of these approved financial statements.
In the current year, the group has applied amendments to IFRSs issued by the IASB that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that beings on or after 1 January 2017.
The new effective requirements are: IAS 7: Amendment: Disclosure Initiative EU effective date: 1 January 2017 : and IAS 12: Amendment: Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses EU effective date: 1 January 2017.
A number of new standards and interpretations adopted by the EU which are not mandatorily effective, as well as standards and interpretations issued by the IASB but not yet adopted by the EU, have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
The group does not plan to adopt these standards early: instead it will apply them from their effective dates as determined by their dates of EU endorsement.
The group is still reviewing the upcoming standards to determine their impact: 1 IFRS 2: Amendment: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IASB effective date: 1 January 2018 : IFRS 9: Financial Instruments EU effective date: 1 January 2018, deferred in line with implementation of IFRS 17 : IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers EU effective date: 1 January 2018 : IFRS 16: Leases EU effective date: 1 January 2019 : 1 IFRS 17: Insurance Contracts IASB effective date: 1 January 2021 : 1 IAS 40: Amendment: Transfers of Investment Property IASB effective date: 1 January 2018 : 1 IFRS 9: Amendment: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation IASB effective date: 1 January 2019 : 1 IAS 28: Amendment: Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures IASB effective date: 1 January 2019 : 1 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle IASB effective date: 1 January 2018 : 1 IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration IASB effective date: 1 January 2018 : and 1 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments IASB effective date: 1 January 2019.
1 The amendments have not been endorsed by the EU.
Of the upcoming accounting standard changes that we are aware of, we anticipate that IFRS 17, IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 will have the most material impact on the financial statements presentation and disclosures.
The accounting developments and implementation timelines of these standards are being closely monitored and the impacts of the standards themselves are being assessed.
Full impact analysis in respect of these standards is in the process of being completed.
The impact of IFRS 15 has been assessed, and the impact is deemed to be immaterial.
A brief overview of the standards is provided below: IFRS 17, effective from 1 January 2021, will fundamentally change the way insurance contracts are accounted for and reported.
Revenue will no longer be equal to premiums written but instead reflect a change in the contract liability on which consideration is expected.
On initial assessment the major change will be on the presentation of the statement of profit or loss with premium and claims figures being replaced with insurance contract revenue, insurance service expense and insurance finance income and expense.
It is not currently known what impact the new requirements will have on the groups profit and financial position, but it is expected that profit recognition will be altered with expenses for onerous contracts being accelerated and recognised upfront rather than being spread over the term of the insurance contract.
We are currently carrying out an impact assessment to identify the main areas within the group that the standard will affect, as well as assessing whether any synergies, potentially with Solvency II, can be achieved.
A more detailed update will be provided after the assessment has been completed: Financial statements www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 133 1 Statement of accounting policies continued IFRS 9 provides a reform of financial instruments accounting to supersede IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The standard contains the requirements for a the classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities: b a new impairment methodology, and c general hedge accounting.
During 2016, the IASB stated that the effective date of IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts will be 1 January 2021.
The IASB also amended IFRS 4 to permit certain entities groups that issue insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 4 to defer application of IFRS 9 Financial instruments until accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021 the deferral approach, in order to align with IFRS 17 implementation.
The activities of the group are predominately related to insurance, and there are no further significant activities not related to that of insurance.
Therefore the group will opt to apply the deferral approach for the implementation of IFRS 9 and will assess the impact of this standard closer to the implementation date.
Beazley plc as a standalone company will adopt IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018.
However, as the standalone company has no financial investments we do not expect the adoption to have an effect on the financial statements: IFRS 15, effective from 1 January 2018, establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue from contracts with customers.
Revenue from contracts accounted for under IFRS 4 Insurance contracts is outside the scope of IFRS 15, but the group will have to apply the new revenue recognition standard to non-insurance contracts, such as profit and service commission agreements with third party syndicates.
In 2017 the revenue from such contracts was $32.9m 2016: $32.4m.
The new standards requirement for accounting for variable consideration could change the timing of revenue recognition for these contracts issued by the group.
The group has assessed the impact of this new standard on its financial statements, and our conclusion is that new revenue standard does not have a material impact on the groups earned income and does not change the timing of recognition of revenue from the contracts outlined above, as our current recognition approach is consistent with the new requirements under IFRS 15.
On transition to the new standard, the group opts to retain prior period figures as reported under the previous standards.
No cumulative effect on the groups equity from applying IFRS 15 is expected in the period of initial application: and IFRS 16, effective from 1 January 2019, replaces existing leases standard, including IAS 17: Leases, and introduces a single, on-balance sheet accounting model for leases, where distinction between operating and finance leases is eliminated.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the new standard on financial statements in the period of initial application and actual impact will depend on unknown factors such as lease portfolio at the date of application, borrowing rates and renewal plans for leases.
The standard is expected to have a material impact on the groups statement of financial position as large assets and liabilities related to the recognition of a right-of-use asset and lease liability will now be included.
As at 31 December 2017 the groups future minimum estimated payments under non-cancellable lease contracts amounted to $45.7m on an undiscounted basis.
This represents the estimated value of the gross up of assets and liabilities on the statement of financial position.
With regards to profit and loss impact, this new approach will have no long term impact.
However, the group will have a different profit recognition pattern to the current process.
On transition to the new standard the group will opt to retain prior period figures as reported under the previous standards.
The cumulative effect of applying IFRS 16 will be shown as an adjustment to the opening balance of equity as at the date of initial application.
Basis of presentation The group financial statements are prepared using the historical cost convention, with the exception of financial assets and derivative financial instruments which are stated at their fair value.
All amounts presented are stated in US dollars and millions, unless stated otherwise.
The financial statements of Beazley plc have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The directors of the company have a reasonable expectation that the group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 1 the financial statements assets and liabilities have been presented based on order of liquidity which provides information that is more reliable and relevant for a financial institution.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued a Estimates Estimates are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The most critical estimate included within the groups financial position is the estimate for insurance losses incurred but not reported, which is included within total insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets in the statement of financial position and note 24.
This estimate is critical as it outlines the current liability for future expenses expected to be incurred in relation to claims.
If this estimation was to prove inadequate then an exposure would arise in future years where a liability has not been provided for.
The total estimate for insurance losses incurred but not reported gross of reinsurers share as at 31 December 2017 is $2,852.3m 2016: $2,567.4m.
The total estimate for insurance losses incurred but not reported net of reinsurers share as at 31 December 2017 is $2,078.5m 2016: $1,915.3m and is included within total insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets in the statement of financial position and note 24.
Another significant area of estimation is the groups financial assets and liabilities.
Information about estimation uncertainty related to the groups financial assets and liabilities is described in this statement of accounting policies and note 16: financial assets and liabilities valuations based on models and unobservable inputs.
Another key estimate contained within our close process is premium estimates.
b Judgements Information about significant areas of critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are described in this statement of accounting policies and specifically in the following notes: note 1a: accounting treatment for the groups interest in managed syndicates: and note 12: intangible assets including goodwill assumptions underlying recoverable amounts.
Consolidation a Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the group.
The group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
In assessing control, the group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
The acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred to the acquirer.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests even if doing so causes the noncontrolling interests to have a deficit balance.
The group has used the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations arising on the purchase of subsidiaries.
Under this method, the cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The accounting treatment of acquisition expenses per IFRS 3 2008 has changed: however, as the group applied the revised standard prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010 there is no impact on accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries made in previous periods.
For all business combinations from 1 January 2010: i Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the group incurs in connection with a business combination, are expensed as incurred: ii In addition, any consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are recognised in profit or loss: and iii Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
Equity financial investments made by the parent company in subsidiary undertakings and associates are stated at cost in its separate financial statements and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 135 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Certain group subsidiaries underwrite as corporate members of Lloyds on syndicates managed by Beazley Furlonge Limited.
In view of the several and direct liability of underwriting members at Lloyds for the transactions of syndicates in which they participate, only attributable shares of transactions, assets and liabilities of those syndicates are included in the group financial statements.
The group continues to conclude that it remains appropriate to consolidate its share of the result of these syndicates and accordingly, as the group is the sole provider of capacity on syndicates 2623, 3622 and 3623, these financial statements include 100% of the economic interest in these syndicates.
For the other syndicates to which Beazley is appointed managing agent, being syndicates 623, 6107, and 6050, for which the capacity is provided entirely by third parties to the group, these financial statements reflect Beazleys economic interest in the form of agency fees and profit commission to which they are entitled.
Syndicate 5623 commenced underwriting on 1 January 2018 and therefore has no balances consolidated in these financial statements.
b Associates Associates are those entities over which the group has power to exert significant influence but which it does not control.
Significant influence is generally presumed if the group has between 20% and 50% of voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method the investments are initially measured at cost and the groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Therefore the cumulative post-acquisition movements in the associates net assets are adjusted against the cost of the investment.
When the groups share of losses equals or exceeds the carrying amount of the associate, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition for the losses is discontinued except to the extent that the group has incurred obligations in respect of the associate.
Equity accounting is discontinued when the group no longer has significant influence over the investment.
c Intercompany balances and transactions All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains or losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated in the group financial statements.
Transactions and balances between the group and associates are not eliminated.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentational currency Items included in the financial statements of the parent and the subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the relevant entity operates the functional currency.
The group financial statements are presented in US dollars, being the functional and presentational currency of the parent and its main trading subsidiaries, as the majority of trading assets and insurance premiums are denominated in US dollars.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using average exchange rates applicable to the period in which the transactions take place and where the group considers these to be a reasonable approximation of the transaction rate.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from translation at the period end of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Non-monetary items recorded at historical cost in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate on the date of the initial transaction.
c Foreign operations The results and financial position of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the group presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate ruling at the statement of financial position date: income and expenses for each statement of profit or loss are translated at average exchange rates for the reporting period where this is determined to be a reasonable approximation of the actual transaction rates: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of foreign operations, cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the statement of profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts including inwards reinsurance contracts are defined as those containing significant insurance risk.
Insurance risk is considered significant if, and only if, an insured event could cause Beazley to pay significant additional benefits in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Net earned premiums a Premiums Gross premiums written represent premiums on business commencing in the financial year together with adjustments to premiums written in previous accounting periods and estimates for premiums from contracts entered into during the course of the year.
Gross premiums written are stated before deduction of brokerage, taxes, duties levied on premiums and other deductions.
b Unearned premiums A provision for unearned premiums gross of reinsurance represents that part of the gross premiums written that it is estimated will be earned in the following financial periods.
It is calculated using the daily pro-rata method, under which the premium is apportioned over the period of risk.
Deferred acquisition costs DAC Acquisition costs comprise brokerage, premium levy and staff-related costs excluding performance related pay of the underwriters acquiring new business and renewing existing contracts.
The proportion of acquisition costs in respect of unearned premiums is deferred at the reporting date and recognised in later periods when the related premiums are earned.
Claims These include the cost of claims and claims handling expenses paid during the period, together with the movements in provisions for outstanding claims, claims incurred but not reported IBNR and claims handling provisions.
The provision for claims comprises amounts set aside for claims advised and IBNR, including claims handling expenses.
The IBNR amount is based on estimates calculated using widely accepted actuarial techniques which are reviewed quarterly by the group actuary and annually by Beazleys independent syndicate reporting actuary.
The techniques generally use projections, based on past experience of the development of claims over time, to form a view on the likely ultimate claims to be experienced.
For more recent underwriting years, regard is given to the variations in the business portfolio accepted and the underlying terms and conditions.
Thus, the critical assumptions used when estimating provisions are that past experience is a reasonable predictor of likely future claims development and that the rating and business portfolio assumptions are a fair reflection of the likely level of ultimate claims to be incurred for the more recent years.
Liability adequacy testing At each reporting date, liability adequacy tests are performed by segment to ensure the adequacy of the claims liabilities net of DAC and unearned premium reserves.
In performing these tests, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and administration expenses, and investment income from the assets backing such liabilities are used.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the statement of profit or loss, initially by writing off DAC and subsequently by establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests unexpired risk provision.
Ceded reinsurance These are contracts entered into by the group with reinsurers under which the group is compensated for losses on contracts issued by the group that meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Insurance contracts entered into by the group under which the contract holder is another insurer inwards reinsurance are included within insurance contracts.
Any benefits to which the group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets consist of balances due from reinsurers and include reinsurers share of provisions for claims.
These balances are based on calculated amounts of outstanding claims and projections for IBNR, net of estimated irrecoverable amounts, having regard to the reinsurance programme in place for the class of business, the claims experience for the period and the current security rating of the reinsurer involved.
Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable for reinsurance contracts and are recognised as an expense when due.
The group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment.
If there is objective evidence of impairment, then the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Revenue Revenue consists of net earned premiums, net investment income and other income made up of commissions received from Beazley service companies, profit commissions, managing agents fees and service fees.
Profit commissions are recognised as profit is earned.
Managing agents fees are recognised as the services are provided.
Dividends paid Dividend distributions to the shareholders of the group are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid, as a first interim dividend, second interim dividend or special dividend.
The second and special dividends are approved by the groups shareholders at the groups annual general meeting.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 137 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Plant and equipment All plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Fixtures and fittings Three to ten years Computer equipment Three years These assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such condition exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment and the difference is charged to the statement of profit or loss.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill has an indefinite life and is annually tested for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to each cash-generating unit being the groups operating segments for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is impaired when the net carrying amount of the relevant cash-generating unit CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of its value in use or fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is defined as the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the CGU.
On transition to IFRS at 1 January 2004, any goodwill previously amortised or written off was not reinstated.
In respect of equity accounted associates, the carrying amount of any goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the associate, and any impairment is allocated to the carrying amount of the associate as a whole.
b Syndicate capacity The syndicate capacity represents the cost of purchasing the groups participation in the combined syndicates.
The capacity is capitalised at cost in the statement of financial position.
It has an indefinite useful life and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment.
It is annually tested for impairment by reference to the expected future profit streams to be earned by those syndicates in which the group participates, namely 2623, 3622 and 3623, and provision is made for any impairment.
c Licences Licences have an indefinite useful life and are initially recorded at fair value.
Licences are annually tested for impairment and provision is made for any impairment when the recoverable amount, being the higher of its value in use and fair value, is less than the carrying value.
d IT development costs Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products and that are anticipated to generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Costs include external consultants fees, certain qualifying internal staff costs and other costs incurred to develop software programs.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful life three years on a straight-line basis and subject to impairment testing annually.
Other non-qualifying costs are expensed as incurred.
e Renewal rights Renewal rights comprise future profits relating to insurance contracts acquired and the expected renewal of those contracts.
The costs directly attributable to acquire the renewal rights are recognised as intangible assets where they can be measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered by directly related future profits.
These costs are subject to impairment testing annually and are amortised on a straight-line basis, based on the estimated useful life of the assets, which is estimated to be between five and ten years.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised in the statement of financial position at such time as the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, which is the date the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets expire, or where the financial assets have been transferred, together with substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised if the groups obligations specified in the contract expire, are discharged or are cancelled.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued a Financial assets On acquisition of a financial asset, the group is required to classify the asset into one of the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the statement of profit or loss, loans and receivables, assets held to maturity and assets available for sale.
The group does not make use of the held to maturity and available for sale categories.
b Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Except for derivative financial instruments and other financial assets listed in policies f and g below, all financial assets are designated as fair value through the statement of profit or loss upon initial recognition because they are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Information about these financial assets is provided internally on a fair value basis to the groups key management.
The groups investment strategy is to invest and evaluate their performance with reference to their fair values.
c Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
d Fair value measurement Fair value is the price at which an orderly transaction to sell an asset or to transfer a liability would take place between market participants at the measurement date.
When available, the group measures the fair value of an instrument using quoted prices in an active market for that instrument.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available as well as representing actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
If a market for a financial instrument is not active, the group establishes fair value using a valuation technique.
Valuation techniques include using recent orderly transactions between market participants if available, reference to the current fair value of other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analyses and option pricing models.
The chosen valuation technique makes maximum use of market inputs, relies as little as possible on estimates specific to the group, incorporates all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, and is consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Inputs to valuation techniques reasonably represent market expectations and measures of the risk-return factors inherent in the financial instrument.
The group calibrates valuation techniques and tests them for validity using prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on other available observable market data.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, i. e. the fair value of the consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modification or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
When the transaction price provides the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss depending on the individual facts and circumstances of the transaction but before the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the transaction is closed out.
Assets and long positions are measured at a bid price: liabilities and short positions are measured at an asking price.
These prices are monitored and deemed to approximate exit price.
Where the group has positions with offsetting risks, mid-market prices are used to measure the offsetting risk positions and a bid or asking price adjustment is applied only to the net open position as appropriate.
Fair values reflect the credit risk of the instrument and include adjustments to take account of the credit risk of the group entity and counterparty where appropriate.
Fair value estimates obtained from models are adjusted for any other factors, such as liquidity risk or model uncertainties, to the extent that the group believes a third-party market participant would take them into account in pricing a transaction.
Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs relating to financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in the statement of profit or loss when incurred.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are continually measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Net changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss exclude interest and dividend income, as these items are accounted for separately as set out on the next page.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 139 1 Statement of accounting policies continued e Hedge funds, equity funds and illiquid credit assets The group invests in a number of hedge funds, equity funds and illiquid credit assets for which there are no available quoted market prices.
The valuation of these assets is based on fair value techniques as described above.
The fair value of our hedge fund portfolio is calculated by reference to the underlying net asset values NAVs of each of the individual funds.
Consideration is also given to adjusting such NAV valuations for any restriction applied to distributions, the existence of side pocket provisions and the timing of the latest available valuations.
At certain times, we will have uncalled unfunded commitments in relation to our illiquid credit assets.
These uncalled unfunded commitments are actively monitored by the group and are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
The additional investment into our illiquid credit asset portfolio is recognised on the date that this funding is provided by the group.
f Insurance receivables and payables Insurance receivables and payables are recognised when due.
These include amounts due to and from agents, brokers and insurance contract holders.
Insurance receivables are classified as loans and receivables as they are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
Insurance receivables are measured at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
Insurance payables are stated at amortised cost.
g Other receivables Other receivables categorised as loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
h Investment income Investment income consists of dividends, interest, realised and unrealised gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on financial assets at fair value through the statement of profit or loss.
Dividends on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest is recognised on an effective rate basis for financial assets at fair value through the statement of profit or loss.
The realised gains or losses on disposal of an investment are the difference between the proceeds and the original cost of the investment.
Unrealised investment gains and losses represent the difference between the carrying value at the reporting date, and the carrying value at the previous period end or purchase value during the period.
i Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently borrowings are stated at amortised cost and interest is recognised in the statement of profit or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Finance costs comprise interest, fees paid for the arrangement of debt and letter of credit facilities, and commissions charged for the utilisation of letters of credit.
These costs are recognised in the statement of profit or loss using the effective interest method.
In addition, finance costs include gains on the early redemption of the groups borrowings.
These gains are recognised in the statement of profit or loss, being the difference between proceeds paid plus related costs and the carrying value of the borrowings redeemed.
j Other payables Other payables are stated at amortised cost determined according to the effective interest rate method.
k Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The best evidence of fair value of a derivative at initial recognition is the transaction price.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gains or losses depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, recent market transactions, and valuation techniques which include discounted cash flow models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and the parties intend to settle on a net basis, or realise the assets and settle the liability simultaneously.
The group has not designated any derivatives as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges and therefore all fair value movements are recorded through profit or loss.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued l Impairment of financial assets The group considers evidence of impairment for financial assets measured at amortised cost at both a specific asset and a collective level.
The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a specific financial asset measured at amortised cost is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the assets and that event has an impact on the estimated cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated.
Assets that are not individually significant are collectively assessed for impairment by grouping together assets with similar risk characteristics.
If there is objective evidence that impairment exists, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
In assessing collective impairment, the group uses historical trends of the probability of default, the timing of recoveries and the amount of loss incurred, adjusted for managements judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses are likely to be greater or lesser than those suggested by historical trends.
m Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash held at bank, cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, cash held in Lloyds trust accounts and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
These investments have less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
Cash and cash equivalents are measured at fair value through the profit and loss account.
n Unfunded commitment capital Unfunded committed capital arising in relation to certain financial asset investments is not shown on the statement of financial position as unfunded committed capital represents a loan commitment that is scoped out of IAS 39.
Leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made by the group for operating leases are charged to the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Employee benefits a Pension obligations The group operates a defined benefit pension plan that is now closed to future service accruals.
The scheme is generally funded by payments from the group, taking account of the recommendations of an independent qualified actuary.
All employees now participate in defined contribution pension arrangements, to which the group contributes.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors like age, years of service and compensation.
The pension costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method the costs of providing pensions are charged to the statement of profit or loss so as to spread the regular costs over the service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of the qualified actuary, who values the plans annually.
The net pension obligation is measured at the present value of the estimated future net cash flows and is stated net of plan assets.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
The group also determines the net interest expense income for the period on the net defined benefit liability asset by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net defined benefit liability asset at the beginning of the annual period, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Consequently, the net interest on the defined benefit liability asset comprises: interest cost on the defined benefit obligation: interest income on plan assets: and interest on the effect of the asset ceiling.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 141 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Net interest expense income is recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
Past service costs are recognised as an expense at the earlier of the date when a plan amendment or curtailment occurs and the date when an entity recognises any termination benefits.
For the defined contribution plan, the group pays contributions to a privately administered pension plan.
Once the contributions have been paid, the group has no further obligations.
The groups contributions are charged to the statement of profit or loss in the period to which they relate.
b Share based compensation The group offers option plans over Beazley plcs ordinary shares to certain employees, including the SAYE scheme.
The grant date fair value of share based payment awards granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the number of awards for which the related service and non-market performance conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
For share based payment awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value of the share based payment is measured to reflect such conditions and there is no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and retained earnings.
When the options are exercised and the shares are granted from the employee share trust, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to retained earnings.
Income taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised respectively in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year end reporting date and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of prior periods.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised in the statement of financial position to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax available to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares such as share options granted to employees.
Share options with performance conditions attaching to them have been excluded from the weighted average number of shares to the extent that these conditions have not been met at the reporting date.
The shares held in the employee share options plan ESOP and treasury shares are excluded from both the calculations, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources or economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Where the group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Contingent liabilities are present obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to meet the liabilities or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management The group has identified the risks arising from its activities and has established policies and procedures to manage these items in accordance with its risk appetite.
The group categorises its risks into eight areas: insurance, strategic, market, operational, credit, regulatory and legal, liquidity and group risk.
The sections below outline the groups risk appetite and explain how it defines and manages each category of risk.
The eight categories of risk have been considered in context of the company Beazley plc.
The following areas are applicable to the company: market, operational, regulatory and legal, and liquidity.
The following disclosures cover the company to the extent that these areas are applicable.
The symbol by a heading indicates that the information in that section has not been audited.
2.1 Insurance risk The groups insurance business assumes the risk of loss from persons or organisations that are directly exposed to an underlying loss.
Insurance risk arises from this risk transfer due to inherent uncertainties about the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
The four key components of insurance risk are underwriting, reinsurance, claims management and reserving.
Each element is considered below.
a Underwriting risk Underwriting risk comprises four elements that apply to all insurance products offered by the group: cycle risk the risk that business is written without full knowledge as to the in adequacy of rates, terms and conditions: event risk the risk that individual risk losses or catastrophes lead to claims that are higher than anticipated in plans and pricing: pricing risk the risk that the level of expected loss is understated in the pricing process: and expense risk the risk that the allowance for expenses and inflation in pricing is inadequate.
We manage and model these four elements in the following three categories: attritional claims, large claims and catastrophe events.
The groups underwriting strategy is to seek a diverse and balanced portfolio of risks in order to limit the variability of outcomes.
This is achieved by accepting a spread of business over time, segmented between different products, geographies and sizes.
The annual business plans for each underwriting team reflect the groups underwriting strategy, and set out the classes of business, the territories and the industry sectors in which business is to be written.
These plans are approved by the board and monitored by the underwriting committee.
Our underwriters calculate premiums for risks written based on a range of criteria tailored specifically to each individual risk.
These factors include but are not limited to the financial exposure, loss history, risk characteristics, limits, deductibles, terms and conditions and acquisition expenses.
The group also recognises that insurance events are, by their nature, random, and the actual number and size of events during any one year may vary from those estimated using established statistical techniques.
To address this, the group sets out the exposure that it is prepared to accept in certain territories to a range of events such as natural catastrophes and specific scenarios which may result in large industry losses.
This is monitored through regular calculation of realistic disaster scenarios RDS.
The aggregate position is monitored at the time of underwriting a risk, and reports are regularly produced to highlight the key aggregations to which the group is exposed.
The group uses a number of modelling tools to monitor its exposures against the agreed risk appetite set and to simulate catastrophe losses in order to measure the effectiveness of its reinsurance programmes.
Stress and scenario tests are also run using these models.
The range of scenarios considered includes natural catastrophe, cyber, marine, liability, political, terrorism and war events.
One of the largest types of event exposure relates to natural catastrophe events such as windstorm or earthquake.
Where possible the group measures geographic accumulations and uses its knowledge of the business, historical loss behaviour and commercial catastrophe modelling software to assess the expected range of losses at different return periods.
Upon application of the reinsurance coverage purchased, the key gross and net exposures are calculated on the basis of extreme events at a range of return periods.
The groups high level catastrophe risk appetite is set by the board and the business plans of each team are determined within these parameters.
The board may adjust these limits over time as conditions change.
In 2017 the group operated to a catastrophe risk appetite for a probabilistic 1-in-250 years US event of $370.0m 2016: $412.0m net of reinsurance.
This represented a reduction in our catastrophe risk appetite of 10% compared to 2016.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 143 2 Risk management continued Lloyds has also defined its own specific set of RDS events for which all syndicates with relevant exposures must report.
Of these the three largest, net of reinsurance, events which could have impacted Beazley in 2016 and 2017 are: Unaudited 2017 Modelled Modelled 1 1 PML before PML after reinsurance reinsurance Lloyds prescribed natural catastrophe event total incurred losses $m $m San Francisco quake 2017: $78.0bn 676.9 228.2 Gulf of Mexico windstorm 2017: $112.0bn 609.0 163.3 Los Angeles quake 2017: $78.0bn 637.3 218.5 Unaudited 2016 Modelled Modelled 1 1 PML before PML after reinsurance reinsurance Lloyds prescribed natural catastrophe event total incurred losses $m $m San Francisco quake 2016: $78.0bn 647.1 219.0 Gulf of Mexico windstorm 2016: $112.0bn 622.8 215.3 Los Angeles quake 2016: $78.0bn 674.6 213.9 1 Probable market loss.
The net of reinsurance exposures for the San Francisco and Los Angeles quake scenarios have increased less than 5% during 2017.
The Gulf of Mexico windstorm scenario net of reinsurance exposure has reduced by 24% due to less business being written in the Gulf of Mexico off-shore energy portfolio and additional reinsurance being purchased in the reinsurance division.
The net exposure of the group to each of these modelled events at a given point in time is a function of assumptions made about how and where the event occurs, its magnitude, the amount of business written that is exposed to each event and the reinsurance arrangements in place.
The group also has exposure to man-made claim aggregations, such as those arising from terrorism and data breach events.
Beazley chooses to underwrite data breach insurance within the specialty lines division using our team of specialist underwriters, claims managers and data breach services managers.
Other than for data breach, Beazleys preference is to exclude cyber exposure where possible.
To manage the potential exposure, the board has established a risk budget for the aggregation of data breach related claims which is monitored by reference to the largest of nine realistic disaster scenarios that have been developed internally.
These scenarios have been peer reviewed by an external technical expert and include the failure of a data aggregator, the failure of a shared hardware or software platform and the failure of a cloud provider.
Whilst it is not possible to be precise, as there is sparse data on actual aggregated events, these severe scenarios are expected to be very infrequent.
The largest realistic disaster scenario is currently lower than the exposure to the Lloyds prescribed natural catastrophe events listed above for the group as at 31 December 2017.
However, the cost of these scenarios will increase as Beazley continues to grow its data breach product.
The clash reinsurance programme that protects the specialty lines account would partially mitigate the cost of most, but not all, data breach catastrophes.
Beazley also reports on cyber exposure to Lloyds using the three largest internal realistic disaster scenarios and seven prescribed scenarios which include both data breach and property damage related cyber exposure.
Given Beazley's risk profile, the quantum from the internal data breach scenarios is larger than any of the cyber property damage related scenarios.
To manage underwriting exposures, the group has developed limits of authority and business plans which are binding upon all staff authorised to underwrite and are specific to underwriters, classes of business and industry.
In 2017, the maximum line that any one underwriter could commit the managed syndicates to was $100m.
In most cases, maximum lines for classes of business were much lower than this.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued These authority limits are enforced through a comprehensive sign-off process for underwriting transactions including dual sign-off for all line underwriters and peer review for all risks exceeding individual underwriters authority limits.
Exception reports are also run regularly to monitor compliance.
All underwriters also have a right to refuse renewal or change the terms and conditions of insurance contracts upon renewal.
Rate monitoring details, including limits, deductibles, exposures, terms and conditions and risk characteristics are also captured and the results are combined to monitor the rating environment for each class of business.
Binding authority contracts A proportion of the groups insurance risks are transacted by third parties under delegated underwriting authorities.
Each third party is thoroughly vetted by our coverholder approval group before it can bind risks, and is subject to rigorous monitoring to maintain underwriting quality and confirm ongoing compliance with contractual guidelines.
Operating divisions In 2017, the groups business consisted of five operating divisions.
The following table provides a breakdown of gross premiums written by division, and also provides a geographical split based on placement of risk.
UK US 2017 Lloyds non-Lloyds Total Marine 11% 11% 1 Political, accident & contingency 9% 9% Property 15% 15% Reinsurance 9% 9% Specialty lines 44% 12% 56% Total 88% 12% 100% UK US 2016 Lloyds non-Lloyds Total Marine 11% 11% 1 Political, accident & contingency 10% 1% 11% Property 15% 15% Reinsurance 10% 10% Specialty lines 42% 11% 53% Total 88% 12% 100% 1 During 2017, the life, accident & health division and political risks & contingency division were combined to form the political, accident & contingency division.
Comparative figures for 31 December 2016 have been re-presented to reflect this change in structure and allow comparability.
b Reinsurance risk Reinsurance risk to the group arises where reinsurance contracts put in place to reduce gross insurance risk do not perform as anticipated, result in coverage disputes or prove inadequate in terms of the vertical or horizontal limits purchased.
Failure of a reinsurer to pay a valid claim is considered a credit risk which is detailed in the credit risk section on page 149.
The groups reinsurance programmes complement the underwriting team business plans and seek to protect group capital from an adverse volume or volatility of claims on both a per risk and per event basis.
In some cases the group deems it more economic to hold capital than purchase reinsurance.
These decisions are regularly reviewed as an integral part of the business planning and performance monitoring process.
The reinsurance security committee RSC examines and approves all reinsurers to ensure that they possess suitable security.
The groups ceded reinsurance team ensures that these guidelines are followed, undertakes the administration of reinsurance contracts and monitors and instigates our responses to any erosion of the reinsurance programmes.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 145 2 Risk management continued c Claims management risk Claims management risk may arise within the group in the event of inaccurate or incomplete case reserves and claims settlements, poor service quality or excessive claims handling costs.
These risks may damage the group brand and undermine its ability to win and retain business, or incur punitive damages.
These risks can occur at any stage of the claims life cycle.
The groups claims teams are focused on delivering quality, reliability and speed of service to both internal and external clients.
Their aim is to adjust and process claims in a fair, efficient and timely manner, in accordance with the policys terms and conditions, the regulatory environment, and the businesss broader interests.
Case reserves are set for all known claims liabilities, including provisions for expenses, as soon as a reliable estimate can be made of the claims liability.
d Reserving and ultimate reserves risk Reserving and ultimate reserves risk occurs within the group where established insurance liabilities are insufficient through inaccurate forecasting, or where there is inadequate allowance for expenses and reinsurance bad debts in provisions.
To manage reserving and ultimate reserves risk, our actuarial team uses a range of recognised techniques to project gross premiums written, monitor claims development patterns and stress-test ultimate insurance liability balances.
An external independent actuary also performs an annual review to produce a statement of actuarial opinion for reporting entities within the group.
The objective of the groups reserving policy is to produce accurate and reliable estimates that are consistent over time and across classes of business.
The estimates of gross premiums written and claims prepared by the actuarial department are used through a formal quarterly peer review process to independently test the integrity of the estimates produced by the underwriting teams for each class of business.
These meetings are attended by senior management, senior underwriters, and actuarial, claims, and finance representatives.
2.2 Strategic risk This is the risk that the groups strategy is inappropriate or that the group is unable to implement its strategy.
Where events supersede the groups strategic plan this is escalated at the earliest opportunity through the groups monitoring tools and governance structure.
Senior management performance Management stretch is the risk that business growth might result in an insufficient or overly complicated management team structure, thereby undermining accountability and control within the group.
As the group expands its worldwide business in the UK, North America, Europe, South America and Asia, management stretch may make the identification, analysis and control of group risks more complex.
On a day-to-day basis, the groups management structure encourages organisational flexibility and adaptability, while ensuring that activities are appropriately coordinated and controlled.
By focusing on the needs of their customers and demonstrating both progressive and responsive abilities, staff, management and outsourced service providers are expected to excel in service and quality.
Individuals and teams are also expected to transact their activities in an open and transparent way.
These behavioural expectations reaffirm low group risk tolerance by aligning interests to ensure that routine activities, projects and other initiatives are implemented to benefit and protect resources of both local business segments and the group as a whole.
2.3 Market risk Market risk arises where the value of assets and liabilities or future cash flows changes as a result of movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and market prices.
Efficient management of market risk is key to the investment of group assets.
Appropriate levels of investment risk are determined by limiting the proportion of forecast group earnings which could be at risk from lower than expected investment returns, using a 1 in 10 confidence level as a practical measure of such risk.
In 2017, this permitted variance from the forecast investment return was set at $126.0m unaudited.
For 2018, the permitted variance is likely to be moderately higher following the adoption of a new economic scenario generator ESG that currently callibrates the risk of any given portfolio at a higher level than the previous ESG primarily because it uses longer periods of historic data.
Investment strategy is developed to be consistent with this limit and investment risk is monitored on an ongoing basis, using outputs from our internal model.
Changes in interest rates also impact the present values of estimated group liabilities, which are used for solvency and capital calculations.
Our investment strategy reflects the nature of our liabilities, and the combined market risk of investment assets and estimated liabilities is monitored and managed within specified limits.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued a Foreign exchange risk The functional currency of Beazley plc and its main trading entities is US dollars and the presentational currency in which the group reports its consolidated results is US dollars.
The effect of this on foreign exchange risk is that the group is mainly exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates for non-dollar denominated transactions and to net asset translation risk on non-dollar functional currency entities.
The group operates in four main currencies: US dollars, sterling, Canadian dollars and euros.
Transactions in all currencies are converted to US dollars on initial recognition with any resulting monetary items being translated to the US dollar spot rate at the reporting date.
If any foreign exchange risk arises it is actively managed as described below.
In 2017, the group managed its foreign exchange risk by periodically assessing its non-dollar exposures and hedging these to a tolerable level while targeting to have net assets that are predominantly denominated in US dollar.
As part of this hedging strategy, exchange rate derivatives were used to rebalance currency exposure across the group.
Details of foreign currency derivative contracts entered into with external parties are disclosed in note 17.
On a forward looking basis an assessment is made of expected future exposure development and appropriate currency trades put in place to reduce risk.
The groups underwriting capital is matched by currency to the principal underlying currencies of its written premiums.
This helps to mitigate the risk that the groups capital required to underwrite business is materially affected by any future movements in exchange rates.
The group also has foreign operations with functional currencies that are different from the groups presentational currency.
The effect of this on foreign exchange risk is that the group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates for US dollar denominated transactions and net assets arising in those foreign currency operations.
It also gives rise to a currency translation exposure for the group to sterling, euro, Norwegian krone, Canadian dollars, Singapore dollars and Australian dollars on translation to the groups presentational currency.
These exposures are minimal and are not hedged.
The following table summarises the carrying value of total assets and total liabilities categorised by the groups main currencies: UK CAD $ EUR Subtotal US $ Total 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Total assets 549.0 130.8 333.6 1,013.4 6,545.3 7,558.7 Total liabilities 514.4 110.0 304.6 929.0 5,130.8 6,059.8 Net assets 34.6 20.8 29.0 84.4 1,414.5 1,498.9 UK CAD $ EUR Subtotal US $ Total 31 December 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m Total assets 539.2 156.2 283.2 978.6 6,029.9 7,008.5 Total liabilities 512.7 166.2 304.4 983.3 4,541.5 5,524.8 Net assets 26.5 10.0 21.2 4.7 1,488.4 1,483.7 Sensitivity analysis Fluctuations in the groups trading currencies against the US dollar would result in a change to profit after tax and net asset value.
The table below gives an indication of the impact on profit after tax and net assets of a percentage change in the relative strength of the US dollar against the value of sterling, the Canadian dollar and the euro, simultaneously.
The analysis is based on information on net asset positions as at the balance sheet date.
Impact on profit after tax for the year ended Impact on net assets 2017 2016 2017 2016 Change in exchange rate of sterling, Canadian dollar and euro relative to US dollar $m $m $m $m Dollar weakens 30% against other currencies 19.6 1.2 11.8 9.5 Dollar weakens 20% against other currencies 13.0 0.8 7.9 6.3 Dollar weakens 10% against other currencies 6.5 0.4 3.9 3.2 Dollar strengthens 10% against other currencies 6.5 0.4 3.9 3.2 Dollar strengthens 20% against other currencies 13.0 0.8 7.9 6.3 Dollar strengthens 30% against other currencies 19.6 1.2 11.8 9.5 Financial statements www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 147 2 Risk management continued b Interest rate risk Some of the groups financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, certain financial assets at fair value and borrowings, are exposed to movements in market interest rates.
The group manages interest rate risk by primarily investing in short duration financial assets along with cash and cash equivalents.
The investment committee monitors the duration of these assets on a regular basis.
The group also entered into bond futures contracts to manage the interest rate risk on bond portfolios.
The following table shows the modified duration at the reporting date of the financial instruments that are exposed to movements in market interest rates.
Duration is a commonly used measure of volatility and we believe gives a better indication than maturity of the likely sensitivity of our portfolio to changes in interest rates.
The first is $18.0m of a subordinated debt facility raised in 2004 which is unsecured.
The subordinated notes are due in 2034 and have been callable at the groups option since 2009.
The second is $250.0m of subordinated tier 2 debt raised in November 2016.
This debt is due in 2026 and has annual interest of 5.875% payable in May and November of each year.
The third is a 75m sterling denominated 5.375% notes due in 2019 with interest payable in March and September each year.
Sensitivity analysis Changes in yields, with all other variables constant, would result in changes in the capital value of debt securities as well as subsequent interest receipts and payments.
This would affect reported profits and net assets as indicated in the table below: Impact on profit after income tax for the year Impact on net assets 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Shift in yield basis points 150 basis point increase 50.9 56.0 50.9 56.0 100 basis point increase 33.9 37.3 33.9 37.3 50 basis point increase 17.0 18.7 17.0 18.7 50 basis point decrease 17.0 18.7 17.0 18.7 100 basis point decrease 33.9 37.3 33.9 37.3 148 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued c Price risk Financial assets and derivatives that are recognised in the statement of financial position at their fair value are susceptible to losses due to adverse changes in prices.
This is referred to as price risk.
Financial assets include fixed and floating rate debt securities, hedge funds, illiquid credit assets, equity investments and derivative financial assets.
The price of debt securities is affected by interest rate risk, as described above, and also by issuer's credit risk.
The sensitivity to price risk that relates to the groups hedge fund, illiquid credit and equity investments is presented below.
Listed investments that are quoted in an active market are recognised in the statement of financial position at quoted bid price, which is deemed to be approximate exit price.
If the market for the investment is not considered to be active, then the group establishes fair value using valuation techniques refer to note 16.
This includes comparison of orderly transactions between market participants, reference to current fair value of other investments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow models and other valuation techniques that are commonly used by market participants.
Impact on profit after income tax for the year Impact on net assets 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Change in fair value of hedge funds, equity funds and illiquid credit assets 30% increase in fair value 168.6 145.3 168.6 145.3 20% increase in fair value 112.4 96.9 112.4 96.9 10% increase in fair value 56.2 48.4 56.2 48.4 10% decrease in fair value 56.2 48.4 56.2 48.4 20% decrease in fair value 112.4 96.9 112.4 96.9 30% decrease in fair value 168.6 145.3 168.6 145.3 d Investment risk The value of our investment portfolio is impacted by interest rate and market price risks, as described above.
Managing the groups exposures to these risks is an intrinsic part of our investment strategy.
Beazley use an Economic Scenario Generator ESG to simulate multiple simulations of financial conditions, to support stochastic analysis of market risk.
Beazley use these outputs to assess the value at risk VAR of its investments, at different confidence levels, including 1 in 200, which reflects Solvency II modelling requirements, and 1 in 10, reflecting scenarios which are more likely to occur in practice.
Risk is typically considered to a 12 month horizon.
It is assessed for investments in isolation and also in conjunction with the present value of our liabilities, to help us monitor and manage market risk for solvency and capital purposes.
By its nature, stochastic modelling does not provide a precise measure of risk: ESG outputs are regularly validated against actual market conditions, but Beazley also uses a number of other, qualitative, measures to support the monitoring and management of investment risk.
These include stress testing and scenario analysis.
Beazleys investment strategy is developed by reference to an investment risk budget, set annually by the board as part of the overall risk budgeting framework of the business.
The Solvency II internal model is used to monitor compliance with the budget, which limits the amount by which our reported annual investment return may deviate from a predetermined target, at the 1 in 10 confidence level.
In 2017, the permitted deviation was $126m.
Additionally, a limit is specified for the net interest rate sensitivity of assets and liabilities combined and investments are managed to ensure that this limit is not exceeded.
2.4 Operational risk Operational risk arises from the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, service providers or external events.
There are a number of business activities for which the group uses the services of a third-party company, such as investment management, data entry and credit control.
These service providers are selected against rigorous criteria and formal service level agreements are in place, and regularly monitored and reviewed.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 149 2 Risk management continued The group also recognises that it is necessary for people, systems and infrastructure to be available to support our operations.
Therefore we have taken significant steps to mitigate the impact of business interruption which could follow a variety of events, including the loss of key individuals and facilities.
We operate a formal disaster recovery plan which, in the event of an incident, allows the group to move critical operations to an alternative location within 24 hours.
The group actively manages operational risks and minimises them where appropriate.
This is achieved by implementing and communicating guidelines to staff and other third parties.
The group also regularly monitors the performance of its controls and adherence to these guidelines through the risk management reporting process.
Key components of the groups operational control environment include: modelling of operational risk exposure and scenario testing: management review of activities: documentation of policies and procedures: preventative and detective controls within key processes: contingency planning: and other systems controls.
2.5 Credit risk Credit risk arises where counterparties fail to meet their financial obligations in full as they fall due.
The primary sources of credit risk for the group are: reinsurers reinsurers may fail to pay valid claims against a reinsurance contract held by the group: brokers and coverholders counterparties fail to pass on premiums or claims collected or paid on behalf of the group: investments issuer default results in the group losing all or part of the value of a financial instrument or a derivative financial instrument: or cash and cash equivalents.
The groups core business is to accept significant insurance risk and the appetite for other risks is low.
This protects the groups capital from erosion so that it can meet its insurance liabilities.
The group limits exposure to a single counterparty or a group of counterparties and analyses the geographical locations of exposures when assessing credit risk.
An approval system also exists for all new brokers, and broker performance is carefully monitored.
Regular exception reports highlight trading with non-approved brokers, and the groups credit control function frequently assesses the ageing and collectability of debtor balances.
Any large, aged items are prioritised and where collection is outsourced incentives are in place to support these priorities.
The investment committee has established comprehensive guidelines for the groups investment managers regarding the type, duration and quality of investments acceptable to the group.
The performance of investment managers is regularly reviewed to confirm adherence to these guidelines.
The group has developed processes to formally examine all reinsurers before entering into new business arrangements.
New reinsurers are approved by the reinsurance security committee RSC, which also reviews arrangements with all existing reinsurers at least annually.
Vulnerable or slow-paying reinsurers are examined more frequently.
To assist in the understanding of credit risks, A. M. Best, Moodys and Standard & Poors S&P ratings are used.
These ratings have been categorised below as used for Lloyds reporting: A. M. Best Moodys S&P Tier 1 A to AAaa to A3 AAA to ATier 2 B to BBaa1 to Ba3 BBB to BBTier 3 C to CB1 to Caa B to CCC Tier 4 D, E, F, S Ca to C R, U, S 3 150 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued The following tables summarise the groups concentrations of credit risk: Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets at fair value fixed and floating rate debt securities 2,840.0 874.7 3,714.7 equity funds 168.3 168.3 hedge funds 377.4 377.4 illiquid credit assets 180.4 180.4 derivative financial instruments 8.8 8.8 Insurance receivables 918.0 918.0 Reinsurance assets 1,231.1 1,231.1 Other receivables 68.6 68.6 Cash and cash equivalents 440.5 440.5 Total 4,580.2 874.7 1,652.9 7,107.8 Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets at fair value fixed and floating rate debt securities 2,687.3 928.2 1.9 3,617.4 equity funds 116.3 116.3 hedge funds 317.1 317.1 illiquid credit assets 132.4 132.4 derivative financial instruments 12.2 12.2 Insurance receivables 794.7 794.7 Reinsurance assets 1,082.1 1,082.1 Other receivables 46.4 46.4 Cash and cash equivalents 507.2 507.2 Total 4,323.0 928.2 1.9 1,372.7 6,625.8 The largest counterparty exposure within tier 1 is $936.7m of US Treasuries 2016: $788.4m.
Financial investments falling within the unrated category comprise hedge funds, equity funds and illiquid credit assets for which there is no readily available market data to allow classification within the respective tiers.
Additionally, insurance receivables are classified as unrated, due to premium debtors not being credit rated.
Insurance receivables and other receivables balances held by the group have not been impaired, based on all evidence available, and no impairment provision has been recognised in respect of these assets.
Insurance receivables in respect of coverholder business are credit controlled by third-party managers.
We monitor third party coverholders performance and their financial processes through the groups coverholder management team.
These assets are individually impaired after considering information such as the occurrence of significant changes in the counterparties financial position, patterns of historical payment information and disputes with counterparties.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 151 2 Risk management continued An analysis of the overall credit risk exposure indicates that the group has reinsurance assets that are impaired at the reporting date.
The total impairment in respect of the reinsurance assets, including reinsurer's share of outstanding claims, at 31 December 2017 was as follows: Individual Collective impairment impairment Total $m $m $m Balance at 1 January 2016 2.9 10.8 13.7 Impairment loss written back 0.5 0.6 1.1 Balance at 31 December 2016 2.4 10.2 12.6 Impairment loss recognised 0.5 0.1 0.6 Balance at 31 December 2017 2.9 10.3 13.2 The group has insurance receivables and reinsurance assets that are past due at the reporting date.
An aged analysis of these is presented below: Greater than Up to 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90 days past due Total past due past due past due 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m Insurance receivables 57.5 13.7 5.3 18.9 95.4 Reinsurance assets 20.4 2.9 0.5 5.2 29.0 Greater than Up to 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90 days past due past due past due past due Total 31 December 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Insurance receivables 31.9 7.9 2.3 11.2 53.3 Reinsurance assets 0.1 3.9 0.1 4.2 8.3 The total impairment provision in the statement of financial position in respect of reinsurance assets past due being reinsurance recoverables due on paid claims by more than 30 days at 31 December 2017 was $3.1m 2016: $3.2m.
This $3.1m provision in respect of overdue reinsurance recoverables is included within the total provision of $13.2m shown in the table at the top of the page.
The group believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due more than 30 days are still collectable in full, based on historic payment behaviour and analyses of credit risk.
2.6 Regulatory and legal risk Regulatory and legal risk is the risk arising from not complying with regulatory and legal requirements.
The operations of the group are subject to legal and regulatory requirements within the jurisdictions in which it operates and the groups compliance function is responsible for ensuring that these requirements are adhered to.
2.7 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises where cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
The group is exposed to daily calls on its available cash resources, principally from claims arising from its insurance business.
In the majority of the cases, these claims are settled from the premiums received.
The groups approach is to manage its liquidity position so that it can reasonably survive a significant individual or market loss event details of the groups exposure to realistic disaster scenarios RDS are provided on page 143.
This means that the group maintains sufficient liquid assets, or assets that can be converted into liquid assets at short notice and without any significant capital loss, to meet expected cash flow requirements.
These liquid funds are regularly monitored using cash flow forecasting to ensure that surplus funds are invested to achieve a higher rate of return.
The group also makes use of loan facilities and borrowings, details of which can be found in note 25.
Further information on the groups capital resources is contained on pages 50 to 51.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued 1 The following is an analysis by business segment of the estimated timing of the net cash flows based on the net claims liabilities balance held at 31 December: Weighted Within Greater than average term 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total to settlement 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m years Marine 100.6 89.3 26.7 20.4 237.0 2.0 Political, accident & contingency 62.6 45.8 9.9 12.0 130.3 2.3 Property 134.5 101.2 29.2 32.8 297.7 2.2 Reinsurance 70.8 66.1 20.8 19.8 177.5 2.3 Specialty lines 542.7 713.8 360.4 456.0 2,072.9 3.4 Net claims liabilities 911.2 1,016.2 447.0 541.0 2,915.4 1 For a breakdown of net claims liabilities refer to note 24.
Weighted Within Greater than average term 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total to settlement 31 December 2016 $m $m $m $m $m years Marine 97.6 79.6 22.6 16.9 216.7 1.9 Political, accident & contingency 65.6 40.5 8.2 6.0 120.3 1.7 Property 99.0 75.9 19.3 13.4 207.6 1.8 Reinsurance 61.2 53.5 17.1 15.4 147.2 2.2 Specialty lines 412.1 675.2 403.2 480.7 1,971.2 3.5 Net claims liabilities 735.5 924.7 470.4 532.4 2,663.0 The following table is an analysis of the net contractual cash flows based on all the liabilities held at 31 December: Within Greater than 31 December 2017 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total Net claims liabilities 911.2 1,016.2 447.0 541.0 2,915.4 Borrowings 99.5 266.5 366.0 Other payables 512.5 512.5 Within Greater than 31 December 2016 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total Net claims liabilities 735.5 924.7 470.4 532.4 2,663.0 Borrowings 94.7 266.3 361.0 Other payables 482.9 1.4 484.3 The group makes additional interest payments for borrowings.
Further details are provided in notes 8 and 25.
The next two tables summarise the carrying amount at reporting date of financial instruments analysed by maturity date.
The first is $18m of a subordinated debt facility raised in 2004 which is unsecured.
The second is $250m of subordinated tier 2 debt raised in November 2016.
Illiquid credit assets, hedge funds and equity funds are not included in the maturity profile because the basis of maturity profile can not be determined with any degree of certainty.
2.8 Group risk Group risk occurs where business units fail to consider the impact of their activities on other parts of the group, as well as the risks arising from these activities.
There are two main components of group risk which are explained below.
a Contagion Contagion risk is the risk arising from actions of one part of the group which could adversely affect any other part of the group.
As the two largest components of the group, this is of particular relevance for actions in any of the US operations, which could adversely affect the UK operations, and vice versa.
The group has limited appetite for contagion risk and minimises the impact of this occurring by operating with clear lines of communication across the group to ensure all group entities are well informed and working to common goals.
b Reputation Reputation risk is the risk of negative publicity as a result of the groups contractual arrangements, customers, products, services and other activities.
Key sources of reputation risk include operation of a Lloyds franchise, interaction with capital markets since the groups IPO during 2002, and reliance upon the Beazley brand in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Asia.
The groups preference is to minimise reputation risks but where it is not possible or beneficial to avoid them, we seek to minimise their frequency and severity by management through public relations and communication channels.
2.9 Capital management The group follows a risk-based approach to determine the amount of capital required to support its activities.
Recognised stochastic modelling techniques are used to measure risk exposures, and capital to support business activities is allocated according to risk profile.
Stress and scenario analysis is regularly performed and the results are documented and reconciled to the boards risk appetite where necessary.
The group has several requirements for capital, including: to support underwriting at Lloyds through the syndicates in which it participates, being 2623, 3623, 3622 and 5623.
This is based on the groups own individual capital assessment.
It may be provided in the form of either the groups cash and investments or debt facilities: to support underwriting in Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. in the US: to support underwriting inBeazley Insurance dac in Europe: and to make acquisitions of insurance companies or MGAs whose strategic goals are aligned with our own.
The Internal Model Solvency Capital Requirement is a dedicated quantitative review of syndicate models and it sets outs to be a key input to the Lloyds Internal Model.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued The boards strategy is to grow the dividend excluding special dividend by between 5% and 10% per year.
Our capital management strategy is to carry some surplus capital to enable us to take advantage of growth opportunities which may arise.
At 31 December 2017 we have surplus capital of 39% of ECR unaudited, on a Solvency II basis.
Following payment of the second interim dividend of 7.4p per share, the surplus reduces to 35% unaudited compared to our current target range of 15% to 25% of ECR.
2.10 Company risk The company is exposed to the same interest rate and liquidity risk exposure experienced on its mutual borrowings with the group.
The groups exposure can be seen in sections 2.3b and 2.7.
The company also experiences operational, regulatory and legal risks as defined in section 2.4 and 2.6.
3 Segmental analysis a Reporting segments Segment information is presented in respect of reportable segments.
These are based on the groups management and internal reporting structures and represent the level at which financial information is reported to the board, being the chief operating decision-maker as defined in IFRS 8.
The operating segments are based upon the different types of insurance risk underwritten by the group, as described below: Marine This segment underwrites a broad spectrum of marine classes including hull, energy, cargo and specie, piracy, satellite, aviation, kidnap & ransom and war risks.
Political, accident & contingency During 2017, the life, accident & health division and political risks & contingency division were combined to form the political, accident & contingency division.
This segment underwrites terrorism, political violence, expropriation and credit risks as well as contingency and risks associated with contract frustration.
In addition, this segment underwrites life, health, personal accident, sports and income protection risks.
Property The property segment underwrites commercial, high-value homeowners and construction and engineering property insurance on a worldwide basis.
Reinsurance This segment specialises in writing property catastrophe, property per risk, casualty clash, aggregate excess of loss and pro-rata business.
Specialty lines This segment underwrites professional liability, management liability and environmental liability, including architects and engineers, healthcare, cyber, lawyers, technology, media and business services, directors and officers and employment practices risks.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
The reporting segments do not cross-sell business to each other.
There are no individual policyholders who comprise greater than 10% of the groups total gross premiums written.
2 In July 2017 the group sold its share in associate, Equinox Global Limited, to Nexus Underwriting Management Limited.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 157 3 Segmental analysis continued c Information about geographical areas The groups operating segments are also managed geographically by placement of risk.
UK earned premium in the analysis below represents all risks placed at Lloyds and US earned premium represents all risks placed at the groups US insurance company, Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. An analysis of gross premiums written split geographically by placement of risk and by reportable segment is provided in note 2 on page 144.
2017 2016 $m $m Capital expenditure Non-US 10.2 5.1 US 0.8 2.1 11.0 7.2 4 Net investment income 2017 2016 $m $m Interest and dividends on financial investments at fair value through profit or loss 76.1 70.9 Interest on cash and cash equivalents 0.5 0.6 Net realised gain losses on financial investments at fair value through profit or loss 23.1 4.9 Net unrealised fair value gains on financial investments at fair value through profit or loss 46.5 33.8 Investment income from financial investments 146.2 100.4 Investment management expenses 7.9 7.3 138.3 93.1 158 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Other income 2017 2016 $m $m Commissions received by Beazley service companies 22.7 15.5 Profit commissions from syndicates 623 6107 8.0 14.9 Agency fees from 623 2.2 2.0 1 Other income 2.6 0.3 35.5 32.7 1 In May 2017 the group sold its Australian accident and health business, previously included in PAC segment, to Blend Insurance Solutions PTY Limited, a Sydney-based Lloyds service company.
The current gain on the disposal of $0.4m is included in other income line of the consolidated statement of profit or loss.
This figure represents the net of the amounts received from the transaction and an estimate of the most probable amount that is expected to be received in respect of contingent consideration.
6 Operating expenses 2017 2016 $m $m Operating expenses include: Amounts receivable by the auditor and associates in respect of: audit services for the group and subsidiaries 0.9 1.0 audit-related assurance services 0.7 0.3 taxation compliance services 0.1 other assurance services 0.5 other non-audit services 0.6 0.4 2.3 2.2 Impairment loss recognised written back on reinsurance assets 0.6 1.1 Operating leases 9.3 9.5 Other than the fees disclosed above, no other fees were paid to the companys auditor.
7 Employee benefit expenses 2017 2016 $m $m Wages and salaries 142.4 134.6 Short term incentive payments 70.2 77.8 Social security 18.2 18.3 Share based remuneration 21.1 23.0 1 Pension costs 10.9 9.2 262.8 262.9 Recharged to syndicate 623 39.4 38.5 223.4 224.4 1 Pension costs refer to the contributions made under the defined contribution scheme.
Further information on the defined benefit pension scheme can be found in note 27.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 159 8 Finance costs 2017 2016 $m $m Interest expense 22.1 15.2 22.1 15.2 9 Income tax expense 2017 2016 $m $m Current tax expense Current year 35.4 37.1 Prior year adjustments 0.6 2.1 34.8 39.2 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.6 2.1 Impact of change in UK US tax rates 5.3 0.8 Prior year adjustments 1.5 1.7 3.2 3.0 Income tax expense 38.0 42.2 Reconciliation of tax expense The weighted average of statutory tax rates applied to the profits earned in each country in which the group operates is 18.7% 2016: 14.9%, whereas the tax charged for the year 31 December 2017 as a percentage of profit before tax is 22.6% 2016: 14.4%.
The increases compared to 2016 were due to a higher weighted average statutory tax rate and a reduction of approximately $5m in deferred tax assets see below : 2017 2017 2016 2016 $m % $m % Profit before tax 168.0 293.2 Tax calculated at the weighted average of statutory tax rates 31.4 18.7 43.6 14.9 Effects of: non-deductible expenses 0.9 0.5 1.8 0.6 non-taxable gains on foreign exchange 0.5 0.3 5.6 1.9 tax relief on share based payments current and future years 0.6 0.2 under provided in prior years 0.9 0.5 3.8 1.3 1 change in UK US tax rates 5.3 3.2 0.8 0.3 Tax charge for the period 38.0 22.6 42.2 14.4 1 T he Finance Act 2015, which provided for a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 was substantively enacted on 26 October 2015.
The Finance Act 2016, which provides for a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 17% effective from 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted on 6 September 2016.
These rate reductions to 19% and 17% will reduce the groups future current tax charge and have been reflected in the calculation of the deferred tax balance as at 31 December 2017.
A c hange in the effective corporation tax in the US from 35% to 21% was substantively enacted in December 2017.
This resulted in a $5m reduction to the carrying value of the groups US deferred tax asset at 31 December 2017.
As noted on page 47, the group has assessed the potential impact of the diverted profits tax DPT following the enactment of new legislation in April 2015 and is of the view that no liability arises.
The ultimate outcome may differ and any profits that did fall within scope of DPT would potentially be taxed at a rate of 25% rather than 12.5% the current rate of tax on corporate earnings in Ireland.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Earnings per share 2017 2016 Basic cents 25.0c 48.6c Diluted cents 24.4c 47.3c Basic pence 19.5p 35.5p Diluted pence 19.0p 34.5p Basic Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of $130.0m 2016: $251.0m by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 520.5m 2016: 516.3m.
The shares held in the Employee Share Options Plan ESOP of 3.8m 2016: 6.1m have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of $130.0m 2016: $251.0m by the adjusted weighted average number of shares of 533.6m 2016: 531.0m.
The adjusted weighted average number of shares assumes conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being shares from the SAYE, retention and deferred share schemes.
The shares held in the ESOP of 3.8m 2016: 6.1m have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
11 Dividends per share A second interim dividend of 7.4p per ordinary share 2016: 7.0p will be payable on 28 March 2018 to Beazley plc shareholders registered at 5.00pm on 2 March 2018 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2017.
No special dividend was declared in 2017 2016: 10.0p.
The company expects the total amount to be paid in respect of the second interim to be approximately 38.6m.
These financial statements do not provide for the second interim dividend as a liability.
Together with the interim dividend of 3.7p 2016: 3.5p this gives a total dividend for the year of 11.1p 2016: 20.5p.
The aforementioned interim dividend will be payable on 28 March 2018 to shareholders registered at 5.00pm on 2 March 2018.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Intangible assets continued Impairment tests Goodwill, syndicate capacity and US insurance authorisation licences are deemed to have indefinite life as they are expected to have value in use that does not erode or become obsolete over the course of time.
Consequently, they are not amortised but annually tested for impairment.
For the purpose of impairment testing, they are allocated to the groups cash-generating units CGUs as follows: Political, accident & Specialty Marine contingency Property Reinsurance lines Total 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Goodwill 2.3 29.6 24.9 0.8 4.4 62.0 Capacity 1.6 1.0 2.5 0.8 4.8 10.7 Licences 1.9 7.4 9.3 Total 3.9 30.6 29.3 1.6 16.6 82.0 Political, accident & Specialty Marine contingency Property Reinsurance lines Total 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m Goodwill 2.3 29.6 24.9 0.8 4.4 62.0 Capacity 1.6 1.0 2.5 0.8 4.8 10.7 Licences 1.9 7.4 9.3 Total 3.9 30.6 29.3 1.6 16.6 82.0 Value in use is defined as the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the CGU and represents recoverable amount for goodwill.
It is estimated by discounting future cash flows sourced from financial budgets approved by management which cover specific estimates for a five year period.
A terminal growth rate of 0% has been used to extrapolate projections beyond the covered five year period.
The key assumptions used in the preparation of future cash flows are: premium growth rates, claims experience, retention rates and expected future market conditions.
A discount rate, based on weighted average cost of capital WACC of 6% 2016: 7% has been applied to projected future cash flows.
This has been calculated using independent measures of the risk-free rate of return and is indicative of the groups risk profile relative to the market.
The impairment test for Goodwill confirms that no impairment is required.
Significant changes in the economic and regulatory environment, such as US legislation and Brexit, could impact the amount of premiums written and investment income per each CGU.
This could potentially have an impact on the carrying value of the CGU.
To test the segments sensitivity to variances from forecast profits, the discount rate has been flexed to 10% above and 5% below the central assumption.
Within this range, the recovery of goodwill was stress tested and remains supportable across all CGUs.
Headroom was calculated in respect of the value in use of all the groups other intangible assets.
The groups intangible asset relating to syndicate capacity is allocated across all CGUs.
The fair value of syndicate capacity can be determined from the latest Lloyds of London capacity auctions.
Based upon the latest market prices, management concludes that the fair value exceeds the carrying amount and as such no impairment is necessary.
US insurance authorisation licences represent the privilege to write insurance business in particular states in the US.
Licences are allocated to the relevant CGU.
There is no active market for licences, therefore value in use is deemed to be fair value.
As described above, a WACC rate is applied to projected future cash flows sourced from management approved budgets.
Key assumptions are the same as those outline above.
Based upon all available evidence the results of the test indicate that no impairment is required.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 163 13 Plant and equipment Company Group Fixtures & Fixtures & Computer fittings fittings equipment Total $m $m $m $m Cost Balance at 1 January 2016 20.7 9.8 30.5 Additions 2.4 0.5 2.9 Write off 0.4 0.4 Foreign exchange loss 1.6 0.7 2.3 Balance at 31 December 2016 21.5 9.2 30.7 Balance at 1 January 2017 21.5 9.2 30.7 Additions 1.1 0.6 1.7 Write off 0.1 2.2 2.3 Foreign exchange gain 0.4 0.4 Balance at 31 December 2017 22.9 7.6 30.5 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2016 17.7 8.3 26.0 Depreciation charge for the year 1.0 0.8 1.8 Write off 0.4 0.4 Foreign exchange gain 1.4 0.7 2.1 Balance at 31 December 2016 17.3 8.0 25.3 Balance at 1 January 2017 17.3 8.0 25.3 Depreciation charge for the year 1.8 0.9 2.7 Write off 0.1 2.2 2.3 Foreign exchange loss 0.3 0.1 0.4 Balance at 31 December 2017 19.3 6.8 26.1 Carrying amounts 31 December 2017 3.6 0.8 4.4 31 December 2016 4.2 1.2 5.4 14 Investment in associates Associates are those entities over which the group has power to exert significant influence but which it does not control.
2017 2016 Group $m $m As at 1 January 9.9 10.0 Investment in Equinox Global Limited 0.1 Sale of share in Equinox Global Limited 3.0 Share of profit loss after tax 0.1 0.2 As at 31 December 7.0 9.9 164 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 14 Investment in associates continued The groups investment in associates consists of: Country of % interest Carrying value incorporation held $m 2017 1 Falcon Money Management Holdings Limited and subsidiaries Malta 25% 2 Capson Corp. Inc. and subsidiary USA 31% 7.0 7.0 1 259 St. Paul Street, Valletta, Malta.
In July 2017 Beazley Investments Limited, part of the Beazley group, sold its share in Equinox Global Limited to Nexus Underwriting Management Limited.
In return, Beazley Investments Limited received cash consideration of 2.1m.
The sale included an additional consideration of 4.5m subject to meeting of earnings targets over the next four years.
This 4.5m has not been recognised as management is of the opinion that reaching the earnings targets is not probable.
The aggregate financial information for all associates 100% held as at 31 December 2017 is as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Assets 35.1 36.8 Liabilities 21.2 22.4 Equity 13.9 14.4 Revenue 17.1 32.7 Loss after tax 1.0 0.7 Share of other comprehensive income Share of total comprehensive income 1.0 0.7 All of the investments in associates are unlisted and are equity accounted using available financial information as at 31 December 2017.
Falcon Management Holdings Limited is an investment management company which also acts in an intermediary capacity.
15 Deferred acquisition costs 2017 2016 $m $m Balance at 1 January 242.8 226.2 Additions 558.3 489.1 Amortisation charge 519.7 472.5 Balance at 31 December 281.4 242.8 Financial statements www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 165 16 Financial assets and liabilities 2017 2016 $m $m Financial assets at fair value Fixed and floating rate debt securities: Government issued 1,345.4 1,180.0 Quasi-government 24.1 62.0 Supranational 21.1 19.5 Corporate bonds Investment grade 2,179.7 2,158.0 High yield 58.8 97.1 Senior secured loans 85.6 96.2 Asset backed securities 4.6 Total fixed and floating rate debt securities 3,714.7 3,617.4 Equity funds 168.3 116.3 Hedge funds 377.4 317.1 Illiquid credit assets 180.4 132.4 Total capital growth assets 726.1 565.8 Total financial investments at fair value through statement of profit or loss 4,440.8 4,183.2 Derivative financial assets 8.8 12.2 Total financial assets at fair value 4,449.6 4,195.4 Quasi-government securities include securities which are issued by government agencies or entities supported by government guarantees.
Supranational securities are issued by institutions sponsored by more than one sovereign issuer.
Investment grade credit assets are any corporate bonds rated as BBBBaa3 or higher by one or more major rating agency, while the remainder of our corporate bonds are rated as high yield.
Asset-backed securities are backed by financial assets, including mortgage, credit card and auto loan receivables.
Equity funds are investment vehicles which are predominantly exposed to equity securities and are intended to give diversified exposure to global equity markets.
Our illiquid credit assets are described in further detail below.
The fair value of these assets at 31 December 2017 excludes an unfunded commitment of $63.0m 2016: $85.5m.
2017 2016 The amounts expected to mature within and after one year are: $m $m Within one year 935.3 937.2 After one year 2,788.2 2,692.4 Total 3,723.5 3,629.6 Our capital growth assets have no defined maturity dates and have thus been excluded from the above maturity table.
However, $153.1m 2016: $105.0m of equity funds could be liquidated within two weeks and the balance within six months, $299.5m 2016: $303.8m of hedge fund assets within six months and the remaining $77.9m 2016: $13.3m of hedge fund assets within 18 months.
Illiquid credit assets are not readily realisable and principal will be returned over the life of these assets, which may be up to ten years.
As noted on page 138 consideration is also given when valuing the hedge funds to any restriction applied to distributions, the existence of side pocket provisions and the timing of the latest valuations.
The adjustment to the underlying net asset value of the funds as a result of these considerations was $nil at 31 December 2017 2016: $nil.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Financial assets and liabilities continued 2017 2016 Financial liabilities $m $m Retail bond 99.5 94.7 Subordinated debt 18.0 18.0 Tier 2 subordinated debt 2026 248.5 248.3 Derivative financial liabilities 1.3 2.8 Total financial liabilities 367.3 363.8 The amounts expected to mature before and after one year are: Within one year 1.3 2.8 After one year 366.0 361.0 367.3 363.8 A breakdown of the groups investment portfolio is provided on page 47.
A breakdown of derivative financial instruments is disclosed in note 17.
The retail bond was issued in 2012.
The subordinated debt was issued in 2004.
Tier 2 subordinated debt was issued in 2016.
Please refer to note 25 for further details of our borrowings and associated repayment terms.
The group has given a fixed and floating charge over certain of its investments and other assets to secure obligations to Lloyds in respect of its corporate member subsidiary.
Further details are provided in note 32.
Valuation hierarchy The table below summarises financial assets carried at fair value using a valuation hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
An active market is a market in which transactions for the instrument occur with sufficient frequency and volume on an ongoing basis such that quoted prices reflect prices at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants at the measurement date.
Included within level 1 are bonds and treasury bills of government and government agencies which are measured based on quoted prices in active markets.
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, or based on pricing models for which significant inputs can be corroborated by observable market data e. g. interest rates, exchange rates.
Included within level 2 are government bonds and treasury bills which are not actively traded, corporate bonds, asset backed securities and mortgage-backed securities.
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable or for which there is limited market activity against which to measure fair value.
The availability of financial data can vary for different financial assets and is affected by a wide variety of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether it is new and not yet established in the marketplace, and other characteristics specific to each transaction.
To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgement.
Accordingly the degree of judgement exercised by management in determining fair value is greatest for instruments classified in level 3.
The group uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date for valuation of these instruments.
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability can be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement.
The group has an established control framework and valuation policy with respect to the measurement of fair values.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 167 16 Financial assets and liabilities continued Level 2 investments For the groups level 2 debt securities our fund administrator obtains the prices used in the valuation from independent pricing vendors such as Bloomberg, Standard and Poors, Reuters, Markit and International Data Corporation.
The independent pricing vendors derive an evaluated price from observable market inputs.
The market inputs include trade data, two-sided markets, institutional bids, comparable trades, dealer quotes, and other relevant market data.
These inputs are verified in their pricing engines and calibrated with the pricing models to calculate spread to benchmarks, as well as other pricing assumptions such as Weighted Average life WAL, Discount Margins DM, default rates, and recovery and prepayment assumptions for mortgage securities.
While such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternative assumptions would not change the fair value significantly.
The group records the unadjusted price provided and validates the price through various tolerance checks such as comparison with the investment custodians and the investment managers to assess the reasonableness and accuracy of the price to be used to value the security.
In the rare case that the price fails the tolerance test, it is escalated and discussed internally.
We would not override the price on a retrospective basis, but we would work with the administrator and pricing vendor to investigate the difference.
This generally results in the vendor updating their inputs.
We also review the valuation policy on a regular basis to ensure it is fit for purpose.
No adjustments have been made to the prices obtained from the administrator at the current year end.
For our hedge funds and equity funds, the pricing and valuation of each fund is undertaken by administrators in accordance with each underlying funds valuation policy.
For the equity funds, the individual fund prices are published on a daily, weekly or monthly basis via Bloomberg and other market data providers such as Reuters.
For the hedge funds, the individual fund prices are communicated by the administrators to all investors via the monthly investor statements.
The fair value of the hedge fund and equity fund portfolios are calculated by reference to the underlying net asset values of each of the individual funds.
Additional information is obtained from fund managers relating to the underlying assets within individual hedge funds.
We identified that 67% 2016: 77% of these underlying assets were level 1 and the remainder level 2.
This enables us to categorise hedge funds as level 2.
Prior to any new hedge fund investment, extensive due diligence is undertaken on each fund to ensure that pricing and valuation are undertaken by the administrators and that each funds valuation policy is appropriate for the financial instruments the manager will be employing to execute the investment strategy.
Fund liquidity terms are reviewed prior to the execution of any investment to ensure that there is no mismatch between the liquidity of the underlying fund assets and the liquidity terms offered to fund investors.
As part of the monitoring process, underlying fund subscriptions and redemptions are assessed by reconciling the increase or decrease in fund assets with the investment performance in any given period.
Level 3 investments During 2017, the groups investment committee approved additional allocations to an illiquid asset portfolio comprising investments in funds managed by third party managers generally closed end limited partnerships or open ended funds.
While the funds provide full transparency on their underlying investments, the investments themselves are in many cases private and unquoted, and are therefore classified as level 3 investments.
These inputs can be subjective and may include a discount rate applied to the investment based on market factors and expectations of future cash flows, the nature of the investment, local market conditions, trading values on public exchanges for comparable securities, current and projected operating performance relative to benchmarks, financial condition, and financing transactions subsequent to the acquisition of the investment.
We take the following steps to ensure accurate valuation of these level 3 assets.
A substantial part of the preinvestment due diligence process is dedicated to a comprehensive review of each funds valuation policy and the internal controls of the manager.
In addition to this, confirmation that the investment reaches a minimum set of standards relating to the independence of service providers, corporate governance, and transparency is sought prior to approval.
Post investment, unaudited capital statements confirming the fair value of the limited partner interests are received and reviewed on a quarterly or more frequent basis.
Audited financial statements are received on an annual basis, with the valuation of each transaction being confirmed.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Financial assets and liabilities continued The following table shows the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2017 $m $m $m $m Financial assets measured at fair value Fixed and floating rate debt securities Government issued 1,345.4 1,345.4 Quasi-government 24.1 24.1 Supranational 21.1 21.1 Corporate bonds Investment grade 15.2 2,164.5 2,179.7 High yield 58.8 58.8 Senior secured loans 85.6 85.6 Equity funds 168.3 168.3 Hedge funds 377.4 377.4 Illiquid credit assets 180.4 180.4 Derivative financial assets 8.8 8.8 Total financial assets measured at fair value 1,414.6 2,854.6 180.4 4,449.6 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Derivative financial liabilities 1.3 1.3 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Retail bond 104.1 104.1 Tier 2 subordinated debt 2026 266.6 266.6 Total financial liabilities not measured at fair value 370.7 370.7 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2016 $m $m $m $m Financial assets measured at fair value Fixed and floating rate debt securities Government issued 1,180.0 1,180.0 Quasi-government 62.0 62.0 Supranational 19.5 19.5 Corporate bonds Investment grade 45.0 2,113.0 2,158.0 High yield 97.1 97.1 Senior secured loans 96.2 96.2 Asset backed securities 4.6 4.6 Equity funds 116.3 116.3 Hedge funds 317.1 317.1 Illiquid credit assets 6.3 126.1 132.4 Derivative financial assets 12.2 12.2 Total financial assets measured at fair value 1,318.7 2,750.6 126.1 4,195.4 Financial statements www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 169 16 Financial assets and liabilities continued Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2016 $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities measured at fair value Derivative financial liabilities 2.8 2.8 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Retail bond 100.8 100.8 Tier 2 subordinated debt 2026 253.3 253.3 Total financial liabilities not measured at fair value 354.1 354.1 The table above does not include financial assets and liabilities that are, in accordance with the groups accounting policies, recorded at amortised cost, if the carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities approximates their fair values at the reporting date.
Cash and cash equivalents have not been included in the table above, however, the full amount of cash and cash equivalents would be classified under level 1 in both the current and prior year.
Transfers and level 3 investment reconciliations There were no transfers in either direction between level 1, level 2 and level 3 in either 2016 or 2017.
The table below shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances of level 3 fair values.
2017 2016 $m $m As at 1 January 126.1 89.7 Purchases 55.4 47.9 Sales 21.1 21.6 Total net gains recognised in profit or loss 20.0 10.1 As at 31 December 180.4 126.1 Unconsolidated structured entities A structured entity is defined as an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only, or when the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
As part of its standard investment activities the group holds fixed interest investments in high yield bond funds and asset backed securities, as well as capital growth investments in equity funds, hedge funds and illiquid credit assets which in accordance with IFRS 12 are classified as unconsolidated structured entities.
The group does not sponsor any of the unconsolidated structured entities.
The assets classified as unconsolidated structured entities are held at fair value on the statement of financial position.
As at 31 December the investments comprising the groups unconsolidated structured entities are as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m High yield bond funds 58.8 97.1 Asset backed securities 4.6 Equity funds 168.3 116.3 Hedge funds 377.4 317.1 Illiquid credit assets 180.4 132.4 Investments through unconsolidated structured entities 784.9 667.5 Apart from a relatively small exposure to high yield bond funds and asset backed securities, our unconsolidated structured entity exposures fall within our capital growth assets.
The capital growth assets are held in investee funds managed by asset managers who apply various investment strategies to accomplish their respective investment objectives.
The groups investments in investee funds are subject to the terms and conditions of the respective investee funds offering documentation and are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of those investee funds.
Investment decisions are made after extensive due diligence on the underlying fund, its strategy and the overall quality of the underlying funds manager and assets.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Financial assets and liabilities continued All the investee funds in the investment portfolio are managed by portfolio managers who are compensated by the respective investee funds for their services.
Such compensation generally consists of an asset-based fee and a performance-based incentive fee and is reflected in the valuation of the funds investment in each of the investee funds.
The right to sell or request redemption of investments in high yield bond funds, asset backed securities, equity funds and hedge funds ranges in frequency from daily to semi-annually.
The group did not sponsor any of the respective structured entities.
These investments are included in financial assets at fair value through profit or loss in the statement of financial position.
The groups maximum exposure to loss from its interests in investee funds is equal to the total fair value of its investments in investee funds and unfunded commitments.
Once the group has disposed of its shares in an investee fund, it ceases to be exposed to any risk from that investee fund.
As described in note 2 to the financial statements, the group monitors and manages its currency exposures to net assets and financial assets held at fair value.
Currency exposures The currency exposures of our financial assets held at fair value are detailed below: UK CAD $ EUR Subtotal US $ Total 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets at fair value Fixed and floating rate debt securities 12.4 161.1 173.5 3,541.2 3,714.7 Equity funds 39.9 39.9 128.4 168.3 Hedge funds 377.4 377.4 Illiquid credit assets 13.7 13.7 166.7 180.4 Derivative financial assets 8.8 8.8 Total 12.4 161.1 53.6 227.1 4,222.5 4,449.6 UK CAD $ EUR Subtotal US $ Total 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets at fair value Fixed and floating rate debt securities 140.1 169.2 309.3 3,308.1 3,617.4 Equity funds 29.7 29.7 86.6 116.3 Hedge funds 317.1 317.1 Illiquid credit assets 8.1 8.1 124.3 132.4 Derivative financial assets 12.2 12.2 Total 140.1 169.2 37.8 347.1 3,848.3 4,195.4 The above qualitative and quantitative disclosure along with the risk management discussions in note 2 enable more comprehensive evaluation of Beazleys exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 171 17 Derivative financial instruments In 2017 and 2016 the group entered into over-the-counter and exchange traded derivative contracts.
The group had the right and the intention to settle each contract on a net basis.
The assets and liabilities of these contracts at 31 December are detailed below: 2017 2016 Market value Market value Gross contract of derivative Gross contract of derivative amount position amount position Derivative financial instrument assets $m $m $m $m Foreign exchange forward contracts 446.7 7.2 144.0 6.9 Bond futures contract 341.4 1.6 843.4 5.3 105.3 8.8 699.4 12.2 2017 2016 Market value Market value Gross contract of derivative Gross contract of derivative amount position amount position Derivative financial instrument liabilities $m $m $m $m Foreign exchange forward contracts 361.7 1.3 278.6 2.8 Bond futures contract 361.7 1.3 278.6 2.8 Foreign exchange forward contracts The group entered into over-the-counter foreign exchange forward agreements in order to economically hedge the foreign currency exposure resulting from transactions and balances held in currencies that are different to the functional currency of the group.
Bond futures positions The group entered in bond futures transactions for the purpose of efficiently managing the term structure of its interest rate exposures.
A negative gross contract amount represents a notional short position that generates positive fair value as interest rates rise.
18 Insurance receivables 2017 2016 $m $m Insurance receivables 918.0 794.7 918.0 794.7 These are receivables within one year and relate to business transacted with brokers and intermediaries.
All insurance receivables are classified as loans and receivables and their carrying values approximate fair value at the reporting date.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Reinsurance assets 2017 2016 $m $m Reinsurers share of claims 1,006.4 866.5 Impairment provision 13.2 12.6 993.2 853.9 Reinsurers share of unearned premium reserve 237.9 228.2 1,231.1 1,082.1 Further analysis of the reinsurance assets is provided in note 24.
20 Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 Group $m $m Cash at bank and in hand 376.2 374.6 Short term deposits and highly liquid investments 64.3 132.6 440.5 507.2 Total cash and cash equivalents include $9.0m 2016: $44.5m held in Lloyds Singapore trust accounts.
These funds are only available for use by the group to meet local claim and expense obligations.
of shares m $m shares m $m Ordinary shares of 5p each Issued and fully paid 525.8 37.8 523.3 37.7 Balance at 1 January 523.3 37.7 521.4 666.7 Issue of shares 2.5 0.1 1.9 2.5 1 Capital reduction 631.5 Balance at 31 December 525.8 37.8 523.3 37.7 1 Subsequent to a scheme of arrangement, a capital reduction was executed in April 2016 which involved a reduction in the nominal value of the shares in the new parent from 90 pence per share to 5 pence per share.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 173 22 Other reserves Employee Employee share options share trust reserve reserve Total $m $m $m Group Balance at 1 January 2016 36.5 29.8 6.7 Share based payments 26.0 26.0 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 9.7 9.7 Transfer of shares to employees 17.5 17.9 0.4 Balance at 31 December 2016 45.0 21.6 23.4 Share based payments 24.5 24.5 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 16.2 16.2 Tax on share option vestings 4.3 4.3 Transfer of shares to employees 24.4 20.4 4.0 Balance at 31 December 2017 49.4 17.4 32.0 Employee Employee share options share trust reserve reserve Total $m $m $m Company Balance at 1 January 2016 Share based payments 22.5 22.5 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 4.6 4.6 Transfer of shares to employees 2.7 4.7 2.0 Balance at 31 December 2016 19.8 0.1 19.9 Share based payments 24.5 24.5 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 16.2 16.2 Transfer of shares to employees 24.4 20.4 4.0 Balance at 31 December 2017 19.9 4.3 24.2 The merger reserve is now shown within the statement of changes in equity as a separate category and as such has been excluded from the other reserves note.
The employee share options reserve is held in accordance with IFRS 2: Share-based payment.
For more information refer to note 23.2.
More information on the employee share trust reserve is included in note 23.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Equity compensation plans 23.1 Employee share trust 2017 2016 Number m $m Number m $m Costs debited to employee share trust reserve Balance at 1 January 6.1 21.6 9.7 29.8 Additions 3.0 16.2 2.0 9.7 Transfer of shares to employees 5.3 20.4 5.6 17.9 Balance at 31 December 3.8 17.4 6.1 21.6 The shares are owned by the employee share trust to satisfy awards under the groups deferred share plan, retention plan, marine share incentive plan MSIP and long term incentive plan LTIP.
These shares are purchased on the market and carried at cost.
On the third anniversary of an award the shares under the deferred share plan are transferred from the trust to the employee.
Under the retention plan, on the third anniversary, and each year after that up to the sixth anniversary, 25.0% of the shares awarded are transferred to the employee.
The deferred share plan is recognised in the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over a period of three years, while the retention share plan is recognised in the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over a period of six years.
23.2 Employee share option plans The group has a long term incentive plan LTIP, marine share incentive plan MSIP, deferred share plan, retention plan and SAYE plan that entitle employees to purchase shares in the group.
The terms and conditions of the grants are as follows: No.
of options Contractual life Share option plan Grant date m Vesting conditions of options MSIP 04 04 2013 0.5 Five years service ROE 10 years LTIP 17 02 2017 1.9 Five years service NAV 10 years 09 02 2016 2.1 minimum shareholding requirement 10 02 2015 2.1 11 02 2014 1.6 13 02 2013 1.8 LTIP 17 02 2017 1.9 Three years service NAV 10 years 09 02 2016 2.1 minimum shareholding requirement 10 02 2015 2.1 SAYE UK 13 04 2017 0.7 Three years service N A 09 05 2016 0.5 07 05 2015 0.5 SAYE US 01 06 2017 0.1 Two years service N A 01 06 2016 0.1 Total share options outstanding 18.0 Vesting conditions In summary the vesting conditions are defined as: two years service a n employee has to remain in employment until the second anniversary from the grant date: three years service an employee has to remain in employment until the third anniversary from the grant date: ROE return on equity, based on the average marine divisional pre-tax return on equity ROE over the performance period: and NAV the NAV growth, after adjusting for the effect of dividends, is greater than the risk-free rate of return plus a premium per year.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 175 23 Equity compensation plans continued Further details of equity compensation plans can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 97 to 116.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted average average exercise No.
of price pence options price pence options per share m per share m Outstanding at 1 January 27.8 19.6 22.1 19.5 Forfeited during the year 68.6 0.6 74.8 0.4 Exercised during the year 35.7 5.7 12.9 4.5 Granted during the year 71.1 4.7 34.2 5.0 Outstanding at 31 December 34.6 18.0 27.8 19.6 Exercisable at 31 December The share option programmes allow group employees to acquire shares of the company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in the employee share options reserve.
The fair value of the options granted is measured at grant date and spread over the period in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
The following is a summary of the assumptions used to calculate the fair value: 2017 2016 $m $m Share options charge to employee share options reserve 21.1 23.0 Weighted average share price pence per option 333.4 274.9 Weighted average exercise price pence per option 34.6 27.8 Average expected life of options 4.3yrs 4.6yrs Expected volatility 24.4% 25.0% Expected dividend yield 1.9% 3.2% Average risk-free interest rate 1.1% 1.7% The expected volatility is based on historic volatility over a period of at least two years.
24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2017 2016 $m $m Gross Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 1,056.3 949.5 Claims incurred but not reported 2,852.3 2,567.4 Gross claims liabilities 3,908.6 3,516.9 Unearned premiums 1,259.2 1,140.8 Total insurance liabilities, gross 5,167.8 4,657.7 Recoverable from reinsurers Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 219.4 201.8 Claims incurred but not reported 773.8 652.1 Reinsurers share of claims liabilities 993.2 853.9 Unearned premiums 237.9 228.2 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 1,231.1 1,082.1 176 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued 2017 2016 $m $m Net Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 836.9 747.7 Claims incurred but not reported 2,078.5 1,915.3 Net claims liabilities 2,915.4 2,663.0 Unearned premiums 1,021.3 912.6 Total insurance liabilities, net 3,936.7 3,575.6 The gross claims reported, the loss adjustment liabilities and the liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are net of recoveries from salvage and subrogation.
During the year the claims incurred but not reported IBNR estimate calculation was amended to bring our calculations in line with new guidance received from Lloyds.
This change in estimation has no impact to profit and loss and a movement on the statement of financial position of $45.9m between insurance receivables and technical provisions, and $5.0m between insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 177 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued 24.2 Assumptions, changes in assumptions and claims reserve strength analysis a Process used to decide on assumptions The peer review reserving process Beazley uses a quarterly dual track process to set its reserves: the actuarial team uses several actuarial and statistical methods to estimate the ultimate premium and claims costs, with the most appropriate methods selected depending on the nature of each class of business: and the underwriting teams concurrently review the development of the incurred loss ratio over time, work with our claims managers to set reserve estimates for identified claims and utilise their detailed understanding of both risks underwritten and the nature of the claims to establish an alternative estimate of ultimate claims cost, which is compared to the actuarially established figures.
A formal internal peer review process is then undertaken to determine the reserves held for accounting purposes which, in totality, are not lower than the actuarially established figure.
The group also commissions an annual independent review to ensure that the reserves established are reasonable or within a reasonable range.
The group has a consistent reserving philosophy, with initial reserves being set to include risk margins which may be released over time as uncertainty reduces.
Actuarial assumptions Chain-ladder techniques are applied to premiums, paid claims and incurred claims i. e. paid claims plus case estimates.
The basic technique involves the analysis of historical claims development factors and the selection of estimated development factors based on historical patterns.
The selected development factors are then applied to cumulative claims data for each underwriting year that is not yet fully developed to produce an estimated ultimate claims cost for each underwriting year.
Chain-ladder techniques are most appropriate for classes of business that have a relatively stable development pattern.
Chain-ladder techniques are less suitable in cases in which the insurer does not have a developed claims history for a particular class of business or for underwriting years that are still at immature stages of development where there is a higher level of assumption volatility.
The Bornhuetter-Ferguson method uses a combination of a benchmark market-based estimate and an estimate based on claims experience.
The former is based on a measure of exposure such as premiums: the latter is based on the paid or incurred claims observed to date.
The two estimates are combined using a formula that gives more weight to the experience-based estimate as time passes.
This technique has been used in situations where developed claims experience was not available for the projection e. g. recent underwriting years or new classes of business.
The expected loss ratio method uses a benchmark market-based estimate applied to the expected premium and is used for classes with little or no relevant historical data.
The choice of selected results for each underwriting year of each class of business depends on an assessment of the technique that has been most appropriate to observed historical developments.
In certain instances, this has meant that different techniques or combinations of techniques have been selected for individual underwriting years or groups of underwriting years within the same class of business.
As such, there are many assumptions used to estimate general insurance liabilities.
We also review triangulations of the paid outstanding claim ratios as a way of monitoring any changes in the strength of the outstanding claim estimates between underwriting years so that adjustments can be made to mitigate any subsequent over under reserving.
To date, this analysis indicates no systematic change to the outstanding claim strength across underwriting years.
Where significant large losses impact an underwriting year e. g. the events of 11 September 2001, the hurricanes in 2004, 2005, 2008, 2012 and 2017 or the earthquakes in 2010, 2011 and 2017, the development is usually very different from the attritional losses.
In these situations, the large loss total is extracted from the remainder of the data and analysed separately by the respective claims managers using exposure analysis of the policies in force in the areas affected.
Further assumptions are required to convert gross of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims cost to a net of reinsurance level and to establish reserves for unallocated claims handling expenses and reinsurance bad debt.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued b Major assumptions The main assumption underlying these techniques is that the groups past claims development experience with appropriate adjustments for known changes can be used to project future claims development and hence ultimate claims costs.
As such these methods extrapolate the development of premiums, paid and incurred losses, average costs per claim and claim numbers for each underwriting year based on the observed development of earlier years.
Throughout, judgement is used to assess the extent to which past trends may or may not apply in the future: for example, to reflect changes in external or market factors such as economic conditions, public attitudes to claiming, levels of claims inflation, premium rate changes, judicial decisions and legislation, as well as internal factors such as portfolio mix, policy conditions and claims handling procedures.
c Changes in assumptions As already discussed, general insurance business requires many different assumptions.
The diagram below illustrates the main categories of assumptions used for each underwriting year and class combination.
Premium rate change Classes Marine Claims inflation Political, accident & contingency Mix of business Property Reporting patterns Underwriting years Reinsurance Settlement patterns Specialty lines Judicial decisions Professional judgement 1993 1994... 2016 2017 Given the range of assumptions used, the groups profit or loss is relatively insensitive to changes to a particular assumption used for an underwriting year class combination.
However, the groups profit or loss is potentially more sensitive to a systematic change in assumptions that affect many classes, such as judicial changes or when catastrophes produce more claims than expected.
The group uses a range of risk mitigation strategies to reduce the volatility including the purchase of reinsurance.
In addition, the group holds capital to absorb volatility.
d Claims reserve strength analysis The estimation of IBNR reserves for future claim notifications is subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of the outstanding claims already notified.
This is particularly true for the specialty lines business, which will typically display greater variations between initial estimates and final outcomes as a result of the greater degree of difficulty in estimating these reserves.
The estimation of IBNR reserves for other business written is generally subject to less variability as claims are generally reported and settled relatively quickly.
As such, our reserving assumptions contain a reasonable margin for prudence given the uncertainties inherent in the insurance business underwritten, particularly on the longer tailed specialty lines classes.
Since year end 2004, we have identified a range of possible outcomes for each class and underwriting year combination directly from our internal model previously our individual capital assessment ICA process.
Comparing these with our pricing assumptions and reserving estimates gives our management team increased clarity into our perceived reserving strength and the relative uncertainties of the business written.
To illustrate the robustness of our reserves, the loss development tables below provide information about historical claims development by the five segments marine, political, accident & contingency, property, reinsurance and specialty lines.
The tables are by underwriting year which in our view provides the most transparent reserving basis.
We have supplied tables for both ultimate gross claims and ultimate net claims.
The top part of the table illustrates how the groups estimate of the claims ratio for each underwriting year has changed at successive year ends.
The bottom half of the table reconciles the gross and net claims to the amount appearing in the statement of financial position.
While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of the claims liabilities established in previous years, users of these financial statements are cautioned against extrapolating past redundancies or deficiencies on current claims liabilities.
The group believes that the estimate of total claims liabilities as at 31 December 2017 is adequate.
However, due to inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 183 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued Analysis of movements in loss development tables We have updated our loss development tables to show the ultimate loss ratios as at 31 December 2017 for each underwriting year.
Marine There was deterioration in the energy book in 2008 in respect of a specific claim.
The 2009 to 2015 underwriting years have delivered releases, but at lower levels than in recent years due to an increase in claim activity.
The recent catastrophe events have led to the deterioration of the 2016 underwriting year, and resulted in the 2017 underwriting year opening higher than previous years.
Political, accident & contingency The increases on the 2013 and 2014 underwriting years follow deterioration on specific underlying claims within the political book.
This has been offset by reductions on the 2015 and 2016 underwriting years, mainly from the terrorism account.
The 2017 underwriting year has opened lower than 2016, where the life, accident & health book has reduced exposure to underperforming accounts.
Property The 2015 and prior years have delivered releases, but at lower levels than in recent years due to an increase in claim activity.
There was deterioration in the property book in 2016, where claims experience was worse than anticipated.
The 2017 underwriting year has opened higher than previous years reflecting the impact of the recent catastrophe events.
Reinsurance The 2016 and prior underwriting years have seen material releases driven by reductions in reserves for catastrophe claims and the release of catastrophe margins.
Specialty lines Strong reserve releases on prior years from the traditional specialty lines business have been supplemented by releases from the 2014 and 2015 underwriting years of the cyber business, where the risk has expired.
The 2017 underwriting year has opened lower than previous years, reflecting the improved experience emerging within the more recent underwriting years, particularly on the cyber book.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued Claim releases The table below analyses our net claims between current year claims and adjustments to prior year net claims reserves.
These have been broken down by segment and underwriting year.
Beazleys reserving policy is to maintain catastrophe reserve margins either until the end of the exposure period or until catastrophe events occur.
Therefore margins have been released from prior year reserves where risks have expired during 2017.
The net of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims costs on the 2016 and prior underwriting years have improved to $203.9m during 2017 2016: $180.7m.
This movement arose from a combination of better than expected claims experience coupled with small changes to the many assumptions resulting from the observed experience.
The movements shown on 2014 and earlier are absolute claim movements and are not impacted by any current year movements in premium on those underwriting years.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 185 25 Borrowings The carrying amount and fair values of the non-current borrowings are as follows: Tier 2 Subordinated subordinated Retail debt debt bond Total Carrying value $m $m $m $m Balance at 1 January 2017 18.0 248.3 94.7 361.0 Interest expensed 0.9 14.7 5.1 20.7 Interest paid 0.9 14.7 5.1 20.7 Amortisation of capitalised borrowing costs 0.2 0.2 0.4 Foreign exchange loss 4.6 4.6 Balance at 31 December 2017 18.0 248.5 99.5 366.0 Tier 2 Subordinated subordinated Retail debt debt bond Total Fair value $m $m $m $m Balance at 1 January 2017 18.0 253.3 100.8 372.1 Change in fair value 13.3 3.3 16.6 Balance at 31 December 2017 18.0 266.6 104.1 388.7 The fair values of the subordinated debt, the tier 2 subordinated debt and the retail bond are based on quoted market prices.
In November 2004, the group issued subordinated debt of $18m to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. JPMorgan.
The loan is unsecured and interest is payable at the USD London interbank offered rate LIBOR plus a margin of 3.65% per annum.
The subordinated notes are due in November 2034 and have been callable at the groups option since 2009.
In September 2012, the group issued 75m of sterling denominated 5.375% notes due 2019.
Interest at a fixed rate of 5.375% is payable in March and September each year.
In November 2016, the group issued $250m of subordinated tier 2 notes due in 2026.
Annual interest, at a fixed rate of 5.875%, is payable in May and November each year.
In addition to these borrowings we operate a syndicated short term banking facility, managed through Lloyds Banking Group plc.
In July 2017 we renewed our syndicated short term banking facility led by Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The facility provides potential borrowings up to $225m.
The agreement is based on a commitment fee of 0.385% per annum and any amounts drawn are charged at a margin of 1.1% per annum.
The cash element of the facility will last for three years, expiring on 31 July 2019, whilst letters of credit issued under the facility can be used to provide support for the 2017, 2018 and 2019 underwriting years.
The facility is currently unutilised.
26 Other payables 2017 2016 Group $m $m Reinsurance premiums payable 182.8 177.8 Accrued expenses including staff bonuses 165.7 148.0 Other payables 100.1 100.4 Deferred consideration payable on acquisition of MGAs 0.3 1.4 Due to syndicate 6107 52.2 47.0 Due to syndicate 6050 11.4 9.7 512.5 484.3 2017 2016 Company $m $m Other payables 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.6 All other payables are payable within one year of the reporting date.
The carrying value approximates fair values.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Retirement benefit obligations 2017 2016 $m $m Present value of funded obligations 55.9 48.2 Fair value of plan assets 53.6 42.0 Retirement benefit liability in the statement of financial position 2.3 6.2 Amounts recognised in the statement of profit or loss Interest cost 1.4 1.4 Expected return on plan assets 1.3 1.4 0.1 Beazley Furlonge Limited operates a defined benefit pension scheme the Beazley Furlonge Limited Pension Scheme.
The scheme provides the following benefits: an annual pension payable to the member from his or her normal pension age 60th birthday of generally 1 60th of final pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service up to 31 March 2006: a spouses pension of 2 3rds of the members pension payable on the members death after retirement: a lump sum of four times current pensionable salary for death in service at the date of death: and a pension of 2 3rds of the members prospective pension at the date of death, payable to the spouse until their death.
This pension is related to salary at the date of death.
The scheme is administered by a trust that is legally separated from the group.
The trustees consist of both employee and employer representatives and an independent chairman, all of whom are governed by the scheme rules.
The scheme exposes the group to additional actuarial, interest rate and market risk.
Contributions to the scheme are determined by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method as set out in the scheme rules and the most recent valuation was at 31 December 2017.
According to the Schedule of Contributions, the group expects to contribute approximately $1.3m in each of the next two years.
2017 2016 $m $m Movement in present value of funded obligations recognised in the statement of financial position Balance at 1 January 48.2 43.1 Interest cost 1.4 1.4 Actuarial gains 4.2 10.9 Benefits paid 0.4 0.3 Foreign exchange gain loss 2.5 6.9 Balance at 31 December 55.9 48.2 Movement in fair value of plan assets recognised in the statement of financial position Balance at 1 January 42.0 42.4 Expected return on plan assets 1.3 1.4 Actuarial gains 4.2 3.7 Employer contributions 4.4 1.6 Benefits paid 0.4 0.3 Foreign exchange gain loss 2.1 6.8 Balance at 31 December 53.6 42.0 Plan assets are comprised as follows: Equities 34.5 27.7 Bonds 8.6 8.0 Cash 3.4 UCITS funds 7.1 6.3 Total 53.6 42.0 Financial statements www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 187 27 Retirement benefit obligations continued The actual gain on plan assets was $5.5m 2016: $5.1m.
2017 2016 $m $m Principal actuarial assumptions Discount rate 2.4% 2.8% Inflation rate 3.4% 3.5% Expected return on plan assets 2.4% 2.8% Future salary increases 3.4% 3.5% Future pensions increases 3.3% 3.0% Life expectancy for members aged 60 at 31 December 90 years 90 years Life expectancy for members aged 40 at 31 December 93 years 92 years At 31 December 2017, the weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 9.7 years 2016: 10.7 years.
Sensitivity analyses Changes in the relevant actuarial assumptions would result in a change in the value of the funded obligation as shown below: Increase Decrease 31 December 2017 $m $m Discount rate 0.5% decrease 7.7 Inflation rate 0.3% decrease 1.1 Future salary changes 0.5% decrease 0.7 Life expectancy 1 year increase 2.0 Increase Decrease 31 December 2016 $m $m Discount rate 0.5% decrease 6.9 Inflation rate 0.3% decrease 3.9 Future salary changes 0.5% decrease 0.3 Life expectancy 1 year increase 1.4 28 Deferred tax 2017 2016 $m $m Deferred tax asset 6.9 11.0 Deferred tax liability 9.9 12.8 3.0 1.8 The movement in the net deferred income tax is as follows: Balance at 1 January 1.8 1.1 Income tax charge 3.2 3.0 Amounts recorded through equity 2.2 1.5 Foreign exchange translation differences 0.2 1.4 Balance at 31 December 3.0 1.8 188 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Deferred tax continued Balance Recognised Recognised FX translation Balance 1 Jan 17 in income in equity differences 31 Dec 17 $m $m $m $m $m Plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Intangible assets 1.2 0.1 2.2 1.1 Underwriting profits 23.0 6.3 16.7 Deferred acquisition costs 10.9 4.1 6.8 Share based payments 6.6 1.2 4.4 0.2 9.6 Other 2.2 4.1 1.9 Net deferred income tax account 1.8 3.2 2.2 0.2 3.0 Balance Recognised Recognised FX translation Balance 1 Jan 16 in income in equity differences 31 Dec 16 $m $m $m $m $m Plant and equipment 0.5 0.2 0.3 Intangible assets 1.2 1.2 Underwriting profits 13.4 9.6 23.0 Deferred acquisition costs 7.1 3.8 10.9 Share based payments 6.1 0.4 1.5 1.4 6.6 Other 0.4 2.6 2.2 Net deferred income tax account 1.1 3.0 1.5 1.4 1.8 A change in the effective corporation tax in the US from 35% to 21% was substantively enacted in December 2017.
The group has tax adjusted losses carried forward giving rise to a deferred tax asset of $1.2m, measured at the UK corporation tax rate of 17%.
The deferred tax asset has not been recognised on the group statement of financial position in the current year as losses are not expected to be utilised in the foreseeable future based on the current taxable profit estimates and forecasts of the underlying entity in question.
29 Operating lease commitments The group leases land and buildings under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The future minimum lease payments under the non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m No later than one year 10.3 9.4 Later than one year and no later than five years 26.9 27.0 Later than five years 8.5 6.8 45.7 43.2 Financial statements www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 189 30 Related party transactions The group and company have related party relationships with syndicates 623, 6107, 6050, its subsidiaries, associates and its directors.
30.1 Syndicates 623, 6107 and 6050 The group received management fees and profit commissions for providing a range of management services to syndicates 623, 6107 and 6050, which are all managed by the group.
In addition, the group ceded portions or all of a group of insurance policies to both syndicates 6107 and 6050.
The participants on syndicates 623, 6107 and 6050 are solely third party capital.
Details of transactions entered into and the balances with these syndicates are as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Written premium ceded to syndicates 66.1 57.3 Other income received from syndicates 35.7 33.1 Services provided 38.6 38.6 Balances due: Due from syndicate 623 30.6 4.7 Due to syndicate 6107 52.2 47.0 Due to syndicate 6050 11.4 9.7 30.2 Key management compensation 2017 2016 $m $m Salaries and other short term benefits 16.4 21.0 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.6 Share based remuneration 9.8 12.7 26.8 34.3 Key management include executive and non-executive directors and other senior management.
The total number of Beazley plc ordinary shares held by key management was 8.1m.
Apart from the transactions listed in the table above, there were no further related party transactions involving key management or a close member of their family.
Further details of directors shareholdings and remuneration can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 97 to 116.
30.3 Other related party transactions At 31 December 2017, the group had purchased services from the associate of $2.5m 2016: $2.5m throughout the year.
All transactions with the associate and subsidiaries are priced on an arms length basis.
In 2017 the group sold its share in Equinox thus ceasing Equinox being a related party.
Equinox repaid a loan of 1.5m and the interest accrued thereon up to the date of completion.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Parent company and subsidiary undertakings Beazley plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales and resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom, is the ultimate parent and the ultimate controlling party within the group.
The following is a list of all the subsidiaries in the group as at 31 December 2017: Beazley plc direct Country of Ownership Functional investment in incorporation interest Nature of business currency subsidiary $m Beazley Ireland Holdings plc Jersey 100% Intermediate holding company USD 724.6 Beazley Group Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company USD Beazley Furlonge Holdings Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company USD Beazley Furlonge Limited England 100% Lloyds underwriting agents GBP Beazley Investments Limited England 100% Investment company USD Beazley Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Management Limited England 100% Intermediate management company GBP Beazley Staff Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Solutions Limited England 100% Insurance services GBP Beazley Underwriting Services Limited England 100% Insurance services GBP 1 Beazley DAS Limited England 100% Dividend access scheme GBP Beazley Corporate Member No.
2 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Corporate Member No.
3 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD 2 Beazley Corporate Member No.
4 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Corporate Member No.
6 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds USD Beazley Leviathan Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds GBP Beazley Canada Limited Canada 100% Insurance services CAD Beazley Insurance dac Ireland 100% Insurance and reinsurance company USD Beazley Underwriting Pty Ltd Australia 100% Insurance services AUD Beazley USA Services, Inc. USA 100% Insurance services USD Beazley Holdings, Inc. USA 100% Holding company USD Beazley Group USA General Partnership USA 100% General partnership USD Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. USA 100% Underwriting admitted lines USD Lodestone Securities LLC USA 100% Consultancy services USD Beazley Limited Hong Kong 100% Insurance services HKD 3 Beazley Middle East Limited UAE 100% Insurance services USD Beazley Pte.
Limited Singapore 100% Underwriting at Lloyds SGD 724.6 1 Beazley DAS Limited is in the process of liquidation.
4 Limited was sold in January 2018.
3 Beazley Middle East Limited was formally liquidated on 3 January 2018.
Please see page 191 for registered address.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 191 31 Parent company and subsidiary undertakings continued The following is a list of group registered office locations: Address City Postcode Country United Kingdom and Continental Europe 60 Great Tower Street London EC3R 5AD England 2 Northwood Avenue Dublin D09 X5N9 Ireland 22 Grenville Street Saint Helier JE4 8PX Jersey North America 1209 Orange Street Wilmington, Delaware 19801 USA 2711 Centerville Road Suite 400 Wilmington, Delaware 19808 USA 30 Batterson Park Road Farmington, Connecticut 06032 USA 160 Greentree Drive, Suite 101 Dover, Delaware 19904 USA 55 University Avenue, Suite 550 Toronto, Ontario M5J 2HJ Canada Asia 138 Market Street, 03-04 Capita Green Singapore 048946 Singapore 36 F. Tower Two, Times Square, 1 Matheson Street Causeway Bay Hong Kong Australia Level 20, 133 Castlereagh Street Sydney NSW 2000 Australia 32 Contingencies Funds at Lloyds The following amounts are controlled by Lloyds to secure underwriting commitments: Underwriting Underwriting Underwriting year year year 2018 2017 2016 m m m Debt securities and other fixed income securities 733.2 656.9 447.6 The funds are held in trust and can be used to meet claims liabilities should syndicates members fail to meet their claims liabilities.
The funds can only be used to meet claim liabilities of the relevant member.
These balances are included within financial assets at fair value on the statement of financial position.
33 Foreign exchange rates The group used the following exchange rates to translate foreign currency assets, liabilities, income and expenses into US dollars, being the groups presentational currency: 2017 2016 Average Year end spot Average Year end spot Pound sterling 0.78 0.75 0.73 0.79 Canadian dollar 1.30 1.29 1.34 1.31 Euro 0.89 0.85 0.91 0.94 192 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Notes to the financial statements continued 34 Subsequent events There are no other events that are material to the operations of the group that have occurred since the reporting date.
35 Business combinations Acquisition of business portfolio In January 2017 Beazley Furlonge Holdings Limited, an intermediate holding company within the group, set up a direct 100% subsidiary, 1104980 BC Limited, in Canada.
The principal activity of 1104980 BC Limited was to act as an intermediate holding company within the group.
This subsidiary acquired 100% of the share capital of a Canadian coverholder, Creechurch International Underwriters Limited now Beazley Canada Limited, on 3 February 2017.
In June 2017 1104980 BC Limited and Beazley Canada Limited amalgamated under the name of Beazley Canada Limited.
The acquisition secured a strategic platform for specialty lines and Beazleys expansion in Canada.
It also allowed us to write more business through increased line size and launching new specialist products through the acquirees distribution channels.
The acquisition was achieved in one stage.
The total amount of consideration paid was $33.8m.
Total amount of consideration represents cash and no contingent consideration was offered.
No material costs related to the acquisition were incurred by the group.
The acquisition had the following effect on the groups assets and liabilities: Carrying value Fair value Fair value at acquisition adjustment on completion Net assets acquired $m $m $m Intangible assets renewal rights 34.4 34.4 Fixed assets 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 2.6 2.6 Other receivables 0.3 0.3 Other payables 1.0 1.0 Deferred tax liability 2.6 2.6 Value of net assets acquired 2.0 31.8 33.8 Intangible assets goodwill Consideration paid 33.8 As per the recognition principle, we have identified separate intangible assets.
These intangibles meet the separability criterion and represent renewal rights which comprise future profits relating to insurance contracts acquired and the expected renewal of those contracts.
The fair value of renewal rights of $31.8m was derived from the profits net of tax expected to be earned from these contracts over a five year period, discounted using a weighted average cost of capital of 10.4%.
Renewal rights are being amortised over a five year period, starting from February 2017.
A related deferred tax liability has been recognised.
No further fair value adjustments were made in relation to other assets and liabilities acquired.
The effect of the acquisition on the groups revenue was $3.0m $3.4m if the acquisition happened on 1 January 2017 and the effect on the groups consolidated statement of profit or loss in the current period was a profit of $2.4m $2.6m if the acquisition happened on 1 January 2017.
