Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements 145 17 Investments Accounting policy Investments, other than investments in joint arrangements and associates, are stated in the statement of financial position at fair value.
Investments held as part of the venture capital portfolio are classied as held for trading, with changes in fair value reported in disposals and other non-operating items in the income statement.
All other investments are classied as available for sale with changes in fair value recognised directly in equity until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is brought into the net profit or loss for the period.
All items recognised in the income statement relating to investments, other than investments in joint arrangements and associates, are reported as disposals and other non-operating items.
Available for sale investments and venture capital investments held for trading represent investments in listed and unlisted securities.
The fair value of listed securities is determined based on quoted market prices, and of unlisted securities on managements estimate of fair value based on standard valuation techniques, including market comparisons and discounts of future cash ows, having regard to maximising the use of observable inputs and adjusting for risk.
Advice from valuation experts isused as appropriate.
All joint arrangements are classied as joint ventures because the Group shares joint control and has rights to the net assets of the arrangements.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for under the equity method and stated in the statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets, less any impairment in value.
2017 2016 m m Investments in joint ventures 102 102 Available for sale investments 2 2 Venture capital investments held for trading 139 135 Total 243 239 The value of venture capital investments and available for sale investments has been determined by reference to other observable market inputs or, when these are not available, by reference to inputs we believe would reect the assumptions market participants would use.
Gains and losses included in the consolidated income statement are provided in note 9.
An analysis of changes in the carrying value of investments in joint ventures is set out below: 2017 2016 m m At start of year 102 101 Share of results of joint ventures 37 37 Dividends received from joint ventures 38 44 Disposals and transfers 7 Additions 2 1 Exchange translation differences 1 14 At end of year 102 102
