188 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Shareholder information Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2017 Information for RELX PLC ordinary The RELX Group Annual Reports and consolidated Financial shareholders Statements for RELX PLC and RELX NV for the year ended 31 December 2017, and the Corporate Governance Statement Shareholder services of RELX NV are available on the Groups website, and from the The RELX PLC ordinary share register is administered by Equiniti registered offices of the respective parent companies shown Limited.
Equiniti provides a free online portal for shareholders at on page 190.
Additional financial information, including the www.
Shareview allows shareholders to monitor interim andfull-year results announcements, trading updates the value of their shareholdings, view their dividend payments and and presentations, is also available on the Groups website, submit dividend mandate instructions.
com submit their proxy voting instructions ahead of company meetings, The consolidated financial statements set out in the Annual as well as update their personal contact details.
Shareview Reports and Financial Statements are expressed in sterling, Dealing provides a share purchase and sale facility.
Equinitis with summary financial information expressed in euros and contact details are shown on page 190.
The financial statements of RELX PLC and RELX NV are expressed in sterling and euros respectively.
Electronic communications While hard copy shareholder communications continue to be Share price information available to those shareholders requesting them, in accordance RELX PLCs ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock with the Companies Act 2006 and the Company's articles of Exchange.
association, RELX PLC uses the Groups website as the main PLC method of communicating with shareholders.
By registering their details online at Shareview, shareholders can be notified by email Trading symbol REL when shareholder communications are published on the Groups ISIN GB00B2B0DG97 website.
Shareholders can also use the Shareview website to appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at shareholder meetings.
RELX NVs ordinary shares are traded on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
Shareholders who hold their RELX PLC shares through CREST may appoint proxies for shareholder meetings through the CREST NV electronic proxy appointment service by using the procedures Trading symbol REN described in the CREST manual.
ISIN NL000614495 The RELX PLC and RELX NV ordinary shares are traded on the Dividend mandates New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shareholders are encouraged to have their dividends paid Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Receipts directly into a UK bank or building society account.
of payment reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures the account is credited on the dividend PLC ADRs NV ADRs payment date.
A dividend mandate form can be obtained online Ratio to ordinary shares 1:1 1:1 at www.
co. uk, or by contacting Equiniti at the address Trading symbol RELX RENX shown on page 190.
CUSIP code 759530108 75955B102 Equiniti has established a service for overseas shareholders The RELX PLC and RELX NV ordinary share prices and the ADR in over 90 countries, which enables shareholders to have their prices may be obtained from the Groups website, other online dividends automatically converted from sterling and paid sources and the financial pages of some newspapers.
directly into their nominated bank account.
Further details of this service, and the fees applicable, are available at For further information visit the Investor Centre section www.
co. uk info ops or by contacting Equiniti oftheGroups website www.
com investorcentre at the address shown on page 190. Dividend Reinvestment Plan Shareholders can choose to reinvest their RELX PLC dividends by purchasing further shares through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP provided by Equiniti.
Further information concerning the DRIP facility, together with the terms and conditions and an application form can be obtained online at www.
co. uk info drip or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 190.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Shareholder information 189 Share dealing service How to avoid share fraud and boiler room scams A telephone and internet dealing service is available through The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has issued some guidance Equiniti, which provides a simple way for UK resident shareholders on how to recognise and avoid investment fraud: to buy or sell RELX PLC shares.
For telephone dealing call Legitimate firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact 0345 603 7037 between 8.30am and 5.30pm UK time, Monday you unexpectedly with an offer to buy or sell shares to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales, and If you receive an unsolicited phone call, do not get into a for internet dealing log on to www.
conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting You will need your shareholder reference number shown on you and then end the call your dividend confirmation.
Check the Financial Services Register available at ShareGift https: register.
uk to see if the person and firm The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
If you wish to call scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose the person or firm back, only use the contact details listed value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme on the Register can be obtained from the ShareGift website at www.
org, Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have any or by telephoning ShareGift on 020 7930 3737. contact details on the Register, or if you are told that they are out of date Sub-division of ordinary shares and share consolidation Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at On 28 July 1986, each RELX PLC ordinary share of 1 nominal https: www.
uk consumers  was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of 25p each.
individuals#list On 2 May 1997, each 25p ordinary share was sub-divided into two If you do buy or sell shares through an unauthorised firm, ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
On 7 January 2008, the ordinary you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service shares of 12.5p each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme ordinary shares of 14 p nominal value for every 67 ordinary shares of 12.5p each held.
Consider obtaining independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money.
If it sounds too good Capital gains tax to be true it probably is.
The mid-market price of RELX PLCs 1 ordinary shares on 31 March 1982 was 282p.
Adjusting for the sub-divisions and How to report a scam shareconsolidation referred to above results in an equivalent If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the FCA using mid-market price of 40.72p for each existing ordinary share theshare fraud reporting form at www.
uk consumers of 14 p nominal value.
, where you can find out more about investment scams.
Youcan also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Warning to shareholders If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you should unsolicited investment advice contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or use their online tool: http: www.
uk report fraud From time to time shareholders may receive unsolicited calls from fraudsters Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams, sometimes known as boiler room scams They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money Thousands of people contact the Financial Conduct Authority about investment fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 32,000
