com Annual report 2017 Beazley 193 Glossary Aggregates aggregations Claims ratio Accumulations of insurance loss exposures which result from Ratio, in percentage terms, of net insurance claims to net underwriting multiple risks that are exposed to common causes earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding of loss.
the impact of foreign exchange.
This represented total claims of $1,075.7m Aggregate excess of loss 2016: $855.6m divided by net earned premiums of The reinsurer indemnifies an insurance company the reinsured $1,869.4m 2016: $1,768.2m.
for an aggregate or cumulative amount of losses in excess of a specified aggregate amount.
Combined ratio Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of net insurance Alternative performance measures APMs claims, expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts The group uses APMs to help explain its financial performance and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
These measures, such as combined ratio, This is also the sum of the expense ratio and the claims ratio.
expense ratio, claims ratio and investment return, are not The calculation is performed excluding the impact of foreign defined under IFRS.
The group is of the view that the use of exchange.
This these measures enhances the usefulness of the financial represents the sum of net insurance claims of $1,075.7m statements.
Definitions of key APMs are included within the 2016: $855.6m, expenses for acquisition of insurance glossary.
This is also the sum of the A. M. Best is a worldwide insurance-rating and information expense ratio 41% 2016: 41% and the claims ratio 58% agency whose ratings are recognised as an ideal benchmark 2016: 48%.
for assessing the financial strength of insurance related organisations, following a rigorous quantitative and qualitative Coverholder analysis of a companys statement of financial position A firm either in the United Kingdom or overseas authorised strength, operating performance and business profile.
by a managing agent under the terms of a binding authority to enter into contracts of insurance in the name of the members Binding authority of the syndicate concerned, subject to certain written terms A contracted agreement between a managing agent and a and conditions.
A Lloyds broker can act as a coverholder.
coverholder under which the coverholder is authorised to enter into contracts of insurance for the account of the members Deferred acquisition costs DAC of the syndicate concerned, subject to specified terms Costs incurred for the acquisition or the renewal of insurance and conditions.
policies e. g. brokerage, premium levy and staff related costs which are capitalised and amortised over the term Capacity of the contracts.
This is the maximum amount of premiums that can be accepted by a syndicate.
Capacity also refers to the amount Earnings per share EPS basic diluted of insurance coverage allocated to a particular policyholder Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the or in the marketplace in general.
consolidated profit after tax by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued, excluding shares owned by the group.
Capital growth assets For calculating diluted earnings per share the number of shares These are assets that do not pay a regular income and target and profit or loss for the year is adjusted for certain dilutive an increase in value over the long term.
They will typically potential ordinary shares such as share options granted have a higher risk and volatility than that of the core portfolio.
Currently these are the hedge funds, equity funds and illiquid credit assets.
Economic Capital Requirement ECR The capital required by a syndicates members to support Catastrophe reinsurance their underwriting.
Calculated as the uSCR uplifted by 35% A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a to ensure capital is in place to support Lloyds ratings and specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company for the financial strength.
amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic event or series of events.
Claims Demand by an insured for indemnity under an insurance contract.
com Glossary continued Excess per risk reinsurance Investment return A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to Ratio, in percentage terms, calculated by dividing the net a specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company against investment income by the average financial assets at fair value, the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with including cash.
In 2017, this was calculated as net investment respect to each risk involved in each loss.
income of $138.3m 2016: $93.1m divided by average financial assets at fair value, including cash, of $4,796.4m Expense ratio 2016: $4,610.9m.
Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts and administrative Lead underwriter expenses to net earned premiums.
The calculation is performed The underwriter of a syndicate who is responsible for setting excluding the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary the terms of an insurance or reinsurance contract that is items.
This subscribed by more than one syndicate and who generally represents the sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance has primary responsibility for handling any claims arising contracts of $519.7m 2016: $472.5m and administrative under such a contract.
Line The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance risk that is Facultative reinsurance accepted by an underwriter or which an underwriter is willing A reinsurance risk that is placed by means of a separately to accept.
negotiated contract as opposed to one that is ceded under a reinsurance treaty.
Managing agent A company that is permitted by Lloyds to manage the Gross premiums written underwriting of a syndicate.
Amounts payable by the insured, excluding any taxes or duties levied on the premium, including any brokerage Managing general agent MGA and commission deducted by intermediaries.
An insurance intermediary acting as an agent on behalf of an insurer.
Hard market An insurance market where prevalent prices are high, Medium tail with restrictive terms and conditions offered by insurers.
A type of insurance where the claims may be made a few years after the period of insurance has expired.
Horizontal limits Reinsurance coverage limits for multiple events.
Net assets per share Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the net assets Incurred but not reported IBNR total equity by the number of shares issued.
These are anticipated or likely claims that may result from an insured event although no claims have been reported so far.
Net premiums written Net premiums written is equal to gross premiums written less International Accounting Standards Board IASB outward reinsurance premiums written.
An independent accounting body responsible for developing IFRS see below.
Private enterprise The private enterprise team offers specialised professional International Accounting Standards IAS International and general liability coverage supported by a high service Financial Reporting Standards IFRS proposition, focusing on meeting the needs of small businesses Standards formulated by the IASB with the intention of with assets up to $35.0m and up to 500 employees.
achieving internationally comparable financial statements.
Since 2002, the standards adopted by the IASB have been Provision for outstanding claims referred to as International Financial Reporting Standards Provision for claims that have already been incurred at the IFRS.
Until existing standards are renamed, they continue reporting date but have either not yet been reported or not to be referred to as International Accounting Standards IAS.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 195 Rate Soft market The premium expressed as a percentage of the sum insured An insurance market where prevalent prices are low, and or limit of indemnity.
terms and conditions offered by insurers are less restrictive.
Rate change Solvency Capital Requirement on an ultimate basis uSCR The percentage change in premium income we are charging The capital requirement under Solvency II calculated by relative to the level of risk on renewals.
Beazleys internal model which captures the risk in respect of the planned underwriting for the prospective year Reinsurance special purpose syndicate of account in full covering ultimate adverse development A special purpose syndicate SPS created to operate as and all exposures.
a reinsurance sidecar to Beazleys treaty account, capitalising on Beazleys position in the treaty reinsurance market.
Surplus lines insurer An insurer that underwrites surplus lines insurance in the USA.
Reinsurance to close RITC Lloyds underwriters are surplus lines insurers in all jurisdictions A reinsurance which closes a year of account by transferring the of the USA except Kentucky and the US Virgin Islands.
responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to that year of account and any year of account closed into that year, Total shareholder return TSR plus the right to buy any income due to the closing year of The increase in the share price plus the value of any first account, into an open year of account in return for a premium.
and second dividends paid and proposed during the year.
Retention limits Treaty reinsurance Limits imposed upon underwriters for retention of exposures A reinsurance contract under which the reinsurer agrees to offer by the group after the application of reinsurance programmes.
and to accept all risks of certain size within a defined class.
Retrocessional reinsurance Unearned premiums reserve The reinsurance of the reinsurance account.
It serves The portion of premium income in the business year that to lay off risk.
is attributable to periods after the reporting date in the underwriting provisions.
Return on equity ROE Ratio, in percentage terms, calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after tax by the average daily total equity.
Risk This term may refer to: a the possibility of some event occurring which causes injury or loss: b the subject matter of an insurance or reinsurance contract: or c an insured peril.
Short tail A type of insurance where claims are usually made during the term of the policy or shortly after the policy has expired.
Property insurance is an example of short tail business.
Sidecar special purpose syndicate Specialty reinsurance company designed to provide additional capacity to a specific insurance company.
It operates by purchasing a portion or all of a group of insurance policies, typically cat exposures.
These companies have become quite prominent in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina as a vehicle to add risk-bearing capacity, and for investors to participate in the potential profits resulting from sharp price increases.
Beazley online annual report and accounts 2017 www.
com 2017 If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to keep it, please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to Beazley or recycle it.
Designed and produced by: Instinctif Partners www.
com Beazley plc Plantation Place South 60 Great Tower Street London EC3R 5AD United Kingdom Phone: 44 0 20 7667 0623 Fax: 44 0 20 7674 7100 Registered number: 09763575 www.
com Moments of truth beautifully designed insurance
