STRATEGIC REPORT DEBEERS DEBEERS Anglo American owns 85% of DeBeers, the worlds leading diamond company.
The balance of 15% is owned by the Government of the Republic of Botswana.
DeBeers operates across key parts of the diamond value chain, including exploration: production: sorting, valuing and selling of rough diamonds: and the marketing and retailing of polished diamonds and diamond jewellery.
HIGHLIGHTS KEY PRIORITIES INCREASE IN ROUGH DIAMOND PRODUCTION Continuing to progress the construction of the Venetia Underground mine in South Africa Bruce Cleaver CEO 22% Establishing Cut-8 as the primary source of ore DeBeers Group at Jwaneng mine in Botswana UNDERLYING EBITDA Managing the safe closure of Victor mine in Canada Completing the integration of DeBeers Jewellers.
$1.4 billion FOREVERMARK INSCRIBED TWO-MILLIONTH DIAMOND IN MAY 2017 2 million THE JOURNEY TOWARDS CARBON-NEUTRAL MINING mineral carbonation technologies.
Mineral carbonation can be either a natural or artificial process whereby rocks at the Earths surface react with carbon dioxide sourced from the atmosphere and lock it away in safe, non-toxic, solid carbonate materials in this case, kimberlite rock.
The project aims to accelerate what is already a naturally occurring and safe process of extracting carbon from the atmosphere and store it at a speed that could offset man-made carbon emissions.
Estimates suggest that the carbon storage potential of kimberlite tailings produced by a diamond mine every year could offset up to 10 times the emissions of a typical mine.
Project lead, Dr Evelyn Mervine, observes: The research is in its early stages and it may take some time before it is economically or practically achievable to tap into this full storage potential.
Even just tapping into a small amount, however, could greatly reduce the net emissions at many fide Beers climate DeBeers is leading a ground-breaking research project change specialist of our mine sites in the near future, possibly leading to to deliver carbon-neutral mining at select operations and project lead carbon-neutral mining at some sites within the next five Dr Evelyn Mervine within a decade.
provides an insight into to 10 years.
the science behind In collaboration with internationally renowned scientists, mineral carbonation.
Assessment studies are under way for Venetia mine in the company is investigating the potential to store large South Africa and Gahcho Ku mine in Canada.
Further volumes of carbon at its diamond mines through the research and studies will continue in 2018 to assess the mineralisation of kimberlite tailings.
carbonation potential at these and other DeBeers mines.
It is the first time such extensive research has been In addition, several mineral carbonation technologies are undertaken to assess the carbonation potential of currently being tested through laboratory-scale pilots kimberlite, a rare type of ultramafic rock that has been that are being conducted in partnership with university found to offer ideal properties for storing carbon through researchers in Canada and Australia.
2 Consolidated sales volumes 2017: 33.1 million carats: 2016: 30.0 million carats exclude pre-commercial production sales volumes from Gahcho Ku.
Total sales volumes 100%, which are comparable to production, were 35.1 million carats 2016: 32.0 million carats.
Total sales volumes 100% include pre-commercial production sales volumes from Gahcho Ku and fide Beers JV partners 50% proportionate share of sales to entities outside fide Beers from the Diamond Trading Company Botswana and the Namibia Diamond Trading Company.
3 Pricing for the mining business units is based on 100% selling value post-aggregation of goods.
The fide Beers realised price includes the price impact of the sale of non-equity product and, as a result, is not directly comparable to fide Beers unit costs, which relate to equity production only.
4 Unit cost is based on consolidated production and operating costs, excluding depreciation and operating special items, divided by carats recovered.
5 Includes rough diamond sales of $5.2 billion 2016: $5.6 billion.
6 Includes pre-commercial production capitalised operating cash inflows from Gahcho Ku.
7 For Canada, price excludes Gahcho Ku contribution from sales related to pre-commercial production, which were capitalised in the first half of 2017.
Unit costs include Gahcho Ku contribution following achievement of commercial production on 2 March 2017.
8 Other includes Element Six, downstream, acquisition accounting adjustments, projects and corporate.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW MARKETS Underlying EBITDA increased by 2% to $1,435 million Early signs are that global consumer demand for diamond 2016: $1,406 million despite lower revenue following jewellery registered positive growth in 2017 in US dollar the one-off industry midstream restocking in 2016.
This terms, following a marginal increase in 2016.
Sustained performance was driven by improved margins, which diamond jewellery demand growth in the US was once again benefited from lower unit costs supported by higher the main contributor to this positive outcome.
Demand for production and efficiency drives across the business, a diamond jewellery by Chinese consumers grew marginally strong contribution from Canada driven by Gahcho Kus in local currency and dollar terms.
In contrast, consumer ramp-up and the closure of Snap Lake, and Element Six demand for diamonds softened in India and the Gulf states, which benefited from a recovery in oil and gas markets.
both in local currency and dollar terms, while Japans This was partly offset by unfavourable exchange rates, consumer demand growth was flat in local currency and and an increasing proportion of waste mining costs being lower in dollars.
expensed rather than capitalised, owing to an improved Diamond producers primary stocks are estimated to have strip ratio at Venetia in South Africa.
reduced considerably during the first half of 2017, as Total revenue declined by 4% to $5.8 billion sentiment in the midstream improved and rough and 2016: $6.1billion as expected, given the benefit of polished inventories normalised for businesses in this strong midstream restocking in the first half of 2016. segment of the value chain.
However, as a result of US The average realised rough diamond price decreased by retailers tightly managing their inventories and the earlier 13% to $162 carat 2016: $187 carat mainly owing to a timing of Diwali in India, there was a slight seasonal build-up lower value mix: this was partly offset by an 8% increase of polished inventory in the midstream going into the in consolidated sales volumes to 32.5 million carats fourth quarter.
Overall, early indications are that additional 2016: 30.0 million carats.
This reflected stronger demand consumer marketing undertaken during the main selling for lower-value goods in Sight 1 of 2017, following a recovery season had a positive effect on polished demand in the US, from the initial impact of Indias demonetisation programme China and India in the final quarter of the year, leading to a in late 2016, as well as the ramp-up of production from lower positive impact on overall polished inventories.
value per carat but high margin operations, including Orapa F or more information, refer to the Marketplace review section See pages 11-13 and Gahcho Ku.
The lower-value mix was compensated in part by a higher average rough price index, which was 3% above that of 2016.
Capital expenditure reduced by 48% to $273 million 2016: $526 million, mainly owing to the completion of major projects, including Gahcho Ku: Debmarine Namibias new exploration and sampling vessel, the SSNujoma: and planned lower waste capitalisation at Venetia.
The SS Nujoma, which was delivered three months ahead of schedule and under budget, was officially inaugurated in June 2017 and is fully operational.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 47 STRATEGIC REPORT DEBEERS OPERATING PERFORMANCE Forevermark continued to expand its retailer network and is now available in more than 2,200 outlets in 25 Mining and manufacturing markets, an increase of 10% since the end of 2016.
By Rough diamond production increased by 22% to May 2017, Forevermark had inscribed its two-millionth 33.5 million carats 2016: 27.3 million carats, reflecting diamond, the second million having taken only half the stronger underlying trading conditions as well as the time it took to inscribe the first million.
For the peak holiday contribution from the ramp-up of Gahcho Ku.
sales period, the brand launched Forevermark Tribute Botswana Debswana increased production by 11% to Collection, a significant marketing investment across 22.7 million carats 2016: 20.5 million carats.
Production at multiple channels in the key US market.
The Tribute Orapa was 28% higher, mainly driven by planned increases Collection, and its supporting campaign, symbolises and in plant performance and the ramp-up of Plant 1, which was celebrates the many facets of the wearer, and reflects the previously on partial care and maintenance in response to growing trend for women to self-purchase.
In June 2017, Jwaneng In February 2017, DeBeers unveiled its next-generation processed its first ore from Cut-8, which is expected to automated mele screening instrument AMS2, which become the mines main source of ore during 2018. is significantly less expensive, screens 10 times faster, can In Namibia Namdeb Holdings, production increased by handle stones three times smaller, and has lower referral 15% to 1.8million carats 2016: 1.6 million carats, primarily rates than its predecessor.
In addition, an industry-first owing to higher production from Debmarine Namibias synthetic-screening device for stones in set jewellery Mafuta vessel, driven by higher mining rates following an SYNTHdetect was launched in June 2017, along with the extended scheduled in-port during 2016.
At Namdebs land roll-out by the International Institute of Diamond Grading & operations, production rose by 6%, despite challenging Research of a synthetics-detection training course.
conditions, including grade variability owing to the nature During 2017, fide Beers invested more than $140 million in of alluvial deposits, structural cost pressures, and some marketing 19% more than in 2016 through a combination operations nearing the end of their lives.
of proprietary and partnership activity centred on the US, In South Africa DBCM, production increased by 23% to China and India.
fide Beers also substantially increased its 5.2 million carats 2016: 4.2 million carats, primarily owing investment in the Diamond Producers Association, a to Venetia, driven by higher grades as well as improved producer-wide body that works to enhance consumer operational performance benefiting tonnes treated.
demand by promoting the appeal, integrity and reputation Construction continues on the Venetia Underground mine, of diamonds.
which is expected to become the mines principal source fide Beers also began the development of a new digital of production during 2023. platform for the diamond industry, backed by highly In Canada, production increased to 3.8 million carats secure blockchain technology, which will provide a single 2016: 1.0 million carats owing to the ramp-up of Gahcho immutable record for every diamond that is registered.
Ku, which entered commercial production in March 2017.
Currently in the pilot phase, this initiative is being designed During the year, Gahcho Ku benefited from higher than to underpin confidence in diamonds and the diamond expected grades, partly offset by a lower average value of industry for all stakeholders, while streamlining existing production.
Owing to the differences in lobe characteristics manual processes and creating new efficiencies in the across different kimberlite pipes, the average grade and value chain.
realised price will continue to vary and will be dependent on the area mined.
Production at Victor increased by 21% to OUTLOOK 0.7 million carats as a result of higher grades.
Victor, which has been operating successfully since 2008, is due to close Improving global macro-economic conditions remain in 2019, when the open pit is expected to have been supportive of consumer demand growth for polished depleted.
The closure of Snap Lake, which is currently on diamonds in 2018.
The degree of global economic growth, care and maintenance, is progressing, with flooding having however, will be dependent upon a number of factors, been completed, thereby minimising holding costs while including the extent of the positive impact on growth in preserving the long term viability of the orebody.
consumer spending from US tax cuts, the strength of the dollar on consumer demand in  Other revenue includes Element Six, which grew strongly, countries, and how successfully China manages its driven primarily by a recovery in the oil and gas business adjustment to a more domestic, consumer-driven economy.
but also supported by the automotive and consumer electronics segments.
For 2018, forecast diamond production on a 100% basis except Gahcho Ku on an attributable 51% basis is Brands expected to be in the range of 34-36 million carats, subject In March 2017, fide Beers acquired its joint venture partners to trading conditions.
50% shareholding in fide Beers Jewellers DBJ.
With full ownership of the business and the fide Beers corporate brand, the process of integrating the DBJ brand and network of 30 stores in 16 key consumer markets around the world is well under way.
48 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017
