FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES ANNUAL ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Directors are required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: Netherlands and by the UK Companies Act 2006 to prepare accounts The Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017, taken as a whole, for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information affairs of the Unilever Group, and the NV and PLC entities, as at the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and end of the financial year and of the profit or loss and cash flows for performance, business model and strategy: that year.
The financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, the Group and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in the and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate case of the consolidated financial statements and Financial Reporting accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and UK reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU in the case of the NV parent company accounts, give a true and fair and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the in the case of the consolidated financial statements, Financial Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 a whole: and and Dutch law in the case of the NV parent company accounts The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
and performance of the business and the position of the Group The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC keep and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy their whole, together with a description of the principal risks and financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure that the uncertainties that they face.
accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also have a general The Directors and their roles are listed on pages 3 and 34. responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and GOING CONCERN other irregularities.
The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to affect its This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Independent future development, performance, the financial position of the Group, Auditors reports, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in on pages 1 to 25.
In addition, we describe in notes 15 to 18 on pages relation to the accounts.
115 to 130 the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is placed on our of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to website at www.
The maintenance and credit and liquidity risk.
Although not assessed over the same period integrity of the website are the responsibility of the Directors, and the work as going concern, the viability of the Group has been assessed on carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially placed The Group has considerable financial resources together with on the website.
Legislation in the UK and the Netherlands governing the established business relationships with many customers and suppliers preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from in countries throughout the world.
As a consequence, the Directors legislation in other jurisdictions.
believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF After making enquiries, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt INFORMATION TO AUDITORS the going concern basis of accounting in preparing this Annual Report UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of PLC and Accounts.
regarding disclosure of information to auditors.
To the best of each of the Directors knowledge and belief, and having made appropriate INTERNAL AND DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES enquiries, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to provide Please refer to page 27 for a discussion of Unilevers principal risk their opinions on PLCs consolidated and parent company accounts factors and to pages 28 to 31 for commentary on the Groups approach has been provided.
Each of the Directors has taken all reasonable to risk management and control.
steps to ensure their awareness of any relevant audit information and to establish that Unilever PLCs auditors are aware of any such information.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements 77
