Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General Information ConvaTec Group Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act of 2006 with its registered office situated in England and Wales.
The Companys registered office and principal place of business is at 3 Forbury Place, 23 Forbury Road, Reading, RG1 3JH, United Kingdom.
The Company and its subsidiaries collectively, the Group is a global medical products and technologies group focused on therapies for the management of chronic conditions, including products used for advanced chronic and acute wound care, ostomy care, continence and critical care and infusion devices used in treatment of diabetes and other conditions.
A list of the Companys subsidiary companies is set out on pages 163 to 165 of the ConvaTec Group Plc company only financial statements.
The Financial Statements are presented in US dollars USD, being the functional currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
All values are rounded to the nearest $0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
Accounting Standards New standards and interpretations applied for the first time In the current year the Group has applied a number of amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Their adoption has not had a material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these Financial Statements.
The following amendments were applied: IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows.
Otherwise the accounting policies set out in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies, below, have been applied consistently to both years presented in these Financial Statements.
New standards and interpretations not yet applied At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following new and revised IFRSs that are potentially relevant to the Group, and which have not been applied in these Financial Statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the European Union EU : IFRS 2, Share-based Payment effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 16, Leases effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in future periods will have no material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group except for IFRS 16, Leases.
IFRS 16 IFRS 16, Leases, will bring a significant portion of the Groups operating leases onto the statement of financial position.
The standard represents a significant change in the accounting and reporting of leases for lessees as it provides a single lessee accounting model.
As such it requires lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the underlying asset has a low value or the lease term is 12 months or less.
The standard may also require the capitalisation of a lease element of contracts held by the Group which under the existing accounting standard would not be considered a lease.
Accounting requirements for lessors are substantially unchanged from IAS 17.
The Group has established a working group to assess the impact of the new standard.
Work performed includes assessing the accounting impacts of the change, the process of collecting the required data from across the business and the necessary changes to systems and processes.
From work performed to date, it is expected implementation of the new standard will have a significant impact on the consolidated results of the Group.
On adoption, lease agreements will give rise to both a right of use asset and a lease liability for future lease payables.
Depreciation of the right of use asset will be recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis, with interest recognised on the lease liability.
This will result in a change to the profile of the net charge taken to the Statement of Profit or Loss over the life of the lease.
These charges will replace the lease costs currently charged to the Statement of Profit or Loss.
The Group continues to assess the full impact of IFRS 16, however, the impact will greatly depend on the facts and circumstances at the time of adoption and upon transition choices adopted.
It is therefore not yet practicable to provide a reliable estimate of the financial impact on the Groups consolidated results.
IFRS 15 IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers supersedes IAS 18, Revenue, and establishes a principles-based approach to revenue recognition and measurement based on the concept of recognizing revenue when performance obligations are satisfied.
An assessment of the impact of IFRS 15 has been completed.
Revenue recognition under IFRS 15 is considered to be consistent with the current practice for the Groups revenue.
Based on the Groups assessment from work performed, the adoption of IFRS 15 will not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 9 IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, provides a new expected losses impairment model and includes amendments to classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The Group does not expect that the adoption of IFRS 9 will have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements but will impact both the measurement and disclosure of financial instruments.
ConvaTec Group Plc 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies Statement of Compliance The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
IFRS includes the standards and interpretations approved by the IASB including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRSIC.
The principal Group accounting policies are explained below and have been applied consistently throughout the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 other than those noted in Note 2 Accounting Standards above.
Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivatives where fair value has been applied.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
2016 Reorganisation On 31 October 2016, the Group completed the initial public offering IPO of its ordinary shares, was admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority and is trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Company was initially incorporated as ConvaTec Group Limited on 6 September 2016, with its registered office situated in the United Kingdom, and was registered as a public company and changed its name to ConvaTec Group plc on 10 October 2016.
Prior to listing, the Company became the holding company of the Group through the acquisition of the full share capital of Cidron Healthcare Limited Cidron and its subsidiaries the Existing Group.
Shares in Cidron, an entity formerly owned by Nordic Capital and Avista Capital Partners, the former equity sponsors and principal shareholders, were exchanged for 1,261,343,801 shares in the Company.
These shares were issued and credited as fully paid of 10 pence each giving rise to the share capital of $154.4 million.
Both the Company and the Existing Group were under common control before and after the 2016 reorganisation.
As a common control transaction, this does not meet the definition of a business combination under IFRS 3 Business Combinations and as such, falls outside the scope of that standard.
As a consequence, following guidance from IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, the introduction of the company has been prepared under merger accounting principles.
This policy, which does not conflict with IFRS, reflects the economic substance of the transaction.
Under these principles, no acquirer is required to be identified and all entities are included at their pre-combination carrying amounts.
This accounting treatment leads to differences on consolidation between share capital in issue $154.4 million and the book value of the underlying net assets acquired, this difference is included within equity as a merger reserve.
Under these principals, the Group has presented its Financial Statements of the Group as though the current Group structure had always been in place.
Accordingly, the results of the combined entities for both the current and prior period are presented as if the Group had been in existence throughout the periods presented, rather than from the restructuring date.
Immediately prior to listing, management shares held in the subsidiaries of the Group were converted to shares in the Company.
Furthermore, the modification of the MEP defined below management incentive plan resulted in the issuance of further shares see Note 24 Share-Based Payments for further details.
The effects of these two events was to bring the total shares in the Company immediately prior to listing to 1,300,000,000 from 1,261,343,801.
Basis of Consolidation The Group Financial Statements include the results of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the group.
Control exists when the Group: i has power over the investee, ii is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement in the investee and iii has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.
The consolidated financial information of the Companys subsidiaries is included within the Groups Financial Statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases, and are prepared for the same year end date using consistent accounting policies.
Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
Consideration transferred in respect of the acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets acquired, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed on the date of the acquisition.
Identified assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at their respective acquisitiondate fair values.
The excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Acquisition-related cost is expensed as incurred.
The operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Groups Financial Statements after the date of acquisition.
Going Concern The Directors have, at the time of approving these Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation and a high level of confidence that the Group and the Company has the adequate liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they become due and will be able to sustain its business model, strategy and operations and remain solvent for a period of at least 12 months from 14 February 2018.
Thus the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements.
ConvaTec Group Plc 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Revenue Recognition Revenue for goods sold is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group upon transfer to the customer of the significant risks and rewards of ownership and revenue can be reliably measured.
Generally, products are insured through delivery and revenue is recognised upon the date of receipt by the customer.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods sold in the normal course of business to external customers, net of sales discounts and volume rebates.
Due to the short-term nature of the receivables from sale of goods, the Group measures them at the original invoice amounts without discounting.
Revenues are recorded based on the price specified in the sales contracts, net of value-added tax, and sales rebates and returns estimated at the time of sale.
Revenues are reduced at the time of recognition to reflect expected product returns and chargebacks, discounts, rebates and estimated sales allowances based on historical experience and updated for changes in facts and circumstances, as appropriate.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
In addition, deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
Current tax and deferred tax for the year Current and deferred tax are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash represents cash on hand and cash held at banks.
All liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less are considered cash equivalents.
Restricted Cash In certain instances, there are requirements to set aside cash for guarantees on the payment of value-added taxes, custom duties on imports, tender programmes, and vehicle office leases by financial institutions on the Groups behalf.
Total restricted cash balances were $5.7 million and $5.1 million at 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively, of which $1.9 million and $2.6 million were current assets included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets within the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
ConvaTec Group Plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Dividends Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the distribution is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Trade and Other Receivables Credit is extended to customers based on the evaluation of the customers financial condition.
Creditworthiness of customers is evaluated on a regular basis.
Trade and other receivables consist of amounts billed and currently due from customers.
An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained for estimated losses that result from the failure or inability of customers to make required payments.
In determining the allowance, consideration includes the probability of recoverability based on past experience and general economic factors.
Certain trade and other receivables may be fully reserved when specific collection issues are known to exist, such as pending bankruptcy.
The Group writes-off uncollectable receivables at the time it is determined the receivable is no longer collectable.
The Group does not charge interest on past due amounts.
The analysis of receivable recoverability is monitored and the bad debt allowances are adjusted accordingly.
Trade and other receivables are not collateralised or factored.
The Group sells its products primarily through an internal sales force and sales are made through various distributors around the world.
Credit risk with respect to accounts receivable is generally diversified due to the large dispersion of customers across many different industries and geographies.
Exposure to credit risk is managed through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring procedures.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value with the cost determined using an average cost method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and indirect production overhead.
Production overhead comprise indirect material and labour costs, maintenance and depreciation of the machinery and production buildings used in the manufacturing process as well as costs of production administration and management.
Net realisable value is defined as anticipated selling price or anticipated revenue less cost to completion.
Estimates of net realisable value are based on the average selling prices at the end of the reporting period, net of applicable direct selling expenses.
Subsequent events related to the fluctuation of prices and costs are also considered, if relevant.
If net realisable values are below inventory costs, a provision corresponding to this difference is recognised.
Provisions are also made for obsolescence of products, materials, or supplies that i do not meet the Groups specifications, ii have exceeded their expiration date, or iii are considered slow-moving inventory.
The Group evaluates the carrying value of inventories on a regular basis, taking into account such factors as historical and anticipated future sales compared with quantities on hand, the price the Group expects to obtain for products in their respective markets compared with historical cost and the remaining shelf life of goods on hand.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of an asset.
Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalised at cost.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefit associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
Replacements of major units of property are capitalised and replaced properties are retired.
The carrying amount of a replaced asset is derecognised when replaced.
Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss during the period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is calculated using straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of each part of a propertys, plant and equipment item, since this most closely reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset.
Depreciation commences when the assets become available for productive use, based on the following estimated useful lives: Buildings 20 to 50 years Building equipment and depreciable land improvements 15 to 40 years Machinery, equipment and fixtures 3 to 20 years Leasehold improvements and assets under finance lease arrangements are amortised over the lesser of the assets estimated useful life or the term of the respective lease.
Maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
 reflects amounts incurred for property, plant, equipment construction or improvements that have not been placed in service.
Interest is capitalised in connection with the construction of qualifying capital assets during the period in which the asset is being installed and prepared for its intended use.
Interest capitalisation ceases when the construction of the asset is substantially complete and the asset is available for use.
Capitalised interest cost is depreciated on a straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
The assets residual values, depreciation methods and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
On disposal of items of property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation and impairments are removed from the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
ConvaTec Group Plc 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Intangible Assets To meet the definition of an intangible asset, an item lacks physical substance and is: i identifiable, ii non-monetary, and iii controlled by the entity and expected to provide future economic benefits to the entity.
The Groups intangible assets consist of patents trademarks and licenses, technology, capitalised software acquired and internally generated, contracts and customer relationships, non-compete agreements, trade names and development costs.
Initial recognition Intangible assets acquired separately by the Group are measured at cost on initial recognition and those acquired in business combinations are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition of the intangible asset, the asset is carried at cost less any subsequent accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Purchased computer software and certain costs of information technology projects are capitalised as intangible assets.
Software that is integral to computer hardware is capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
The Group follows the guidance of IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 38 on internally generated development costs associated with its system.
The costs incurred in the preliminary stages of development are expensed as incurred.
Once a project has reached the application development stage, internal and external costs, if direct and incremental, are capitalised until the software is substantially complete and ready for its intended use.
Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software are expensed as incurred.
Upgrades and enhancements are capitalised to the extent they will result in added functionality.
Amortisation of intangible assets is calculated using the straight-line method based on the following estimated useful lives: Patents, trademarks and licenses 3 to 20 years Technology 10 to 18 years Capitalised software acquired and internally generated 3 to 10 years Contracts and customer relationships 2 to 20 years Non-compete agreements 3 to 5 years Trade names 10 years Development costs 5 years The Group has finite-lived and indefinite-lived trade names.
Indefinite-lived trade names are not amortised but are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired, either individually or at the cash generating unit CGU level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Impairment of Non-Monetary Assets including Goodwill The Group tests goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment annually or more frequently, if there are any impairment indicators.
However, property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangibles are tested for impairment only if indicators of impairment are present.
For impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generate cash inflows from continuing use and are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or CGUs.
Additionally, goodwill arising from a business combination is allocated to CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and fair value, less costs of disposal.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
They are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU, and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the remaining assets in the CGU, on a prorated basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
For other assets, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
The Group has not recognised any impairment reversals in 2017 or 2016.
Finance Costs Finance costs include interest costs, standby fees, interest cost on derivative financial instruments, and any loss related to debt extinguishment.
Interest costs are expensed as incurred, except to the extent such interest is related to construction in progress, in which case interest is capitalised.
The capitalised interest recorded in 2017 and 2016 was $0.7 million and $1.1 million, respectively.
Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and that obligation can be measured reliably.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre tax rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
Provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted to reflect managements best current estimates.
Due to the judgmental nature of these items, future settlements may differ from amounts recognised.
Provisions consist of decommissioning provisions, restructuring provisions, and legal claims and obligations.
The Group does not recognise contingent assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
However, if an inflow of economic benefits is probable, then it is appropriately disclosed in the notes to the Financial Statements.
For a discussion on provisions, refer to Note 20 Provisions and Note 23 Commitments and Contingencies.
ConvaTec Group Plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Research and Development Research and development expenses are comprised of costs incurred in performing research and development activities including payroll and benefits, clinical manufacturing and pre-launch clinical trial costs, manufacturing development and scale-up costs, product development and regulatory costs, contract services and other outside contractors costs, research license fees, depreciation and amortisation of lab facilities, and lab supplies.
Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditures are capitalised only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and use or sell the asset.
Otherwise, development expenditures are expensed as incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, development expenditures are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Share-Based Payments Prior to listing, the Group had granted share-based compensation to employees under the Annual Equity Plan AEP, Management Executive Plan MEP, and Management Incentive Plan MIP.
Post IPO, share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, Matching Share Plan MSP, and Share Save plans Employee Plans.
Certain features of share-based awards, such as cash-settled share-based payments to employees require the awards to be accounted for as liabilities as opposed to equity.
Liability awards are measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and are required to be remeasured to the fair value at the end of each reporting period until settlement.
True up compensation cost is recognised in each reporting period for changes in fair value prorated for the portion of the requisite service period rendered in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss General and administrative expenses.
The Groups 2016 reorganisation discussed above triggered the modification accounting where the terms of awards MEP units were changed immediately prior to listing to vested equity shares.
The liability recognised for such shares was converted to equity, with a true up cost recognised to reflect the accelerated vesting period for shares not subject to a continued employment clawback.
Shares subject to continued employment are recognised over the term of the clawback arrangement.
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the award on the grant date.
The fair value of the awards at the date of the grant, which is estimated to be equal to the market value, is expensed to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss General and administrative expenses over the vesting period, with appropriate adjustments being made during the period to reflect expected and actual forfeitures.
The corresponding credit is to Other reserves in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Refer to Note 24 Share-Based Payments for a further description of the plans and the relevant accounting guidance applied.
Financial Instruments The carrying amounts reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, restricted cash, trade and other payables, and certain accrued expenses and other current liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities.
Debt obligations are initially carried at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs and subsequently at amortised cost.
At initial recognition, the Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories depending on the purpose for which the instruments were acquired: i.
Financial assets The Group initially recognises loans and receivables on the date that they are originated.
All other financial assets are recognised initially on the trade date, which is the date that the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses.
The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in such transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability.
Financial liabilities The Group initially recognises debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities on the date that they are originated.
All other financial liabilities are recognised initially on the trade date, which is the date that the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
ConvaTec Group Plc 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Financial Instruments continued The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged, terminated or expired.
When the Group exchanges with the existing lender one debt instrument into another one with the substantially different terms, such exchange is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Similarly, the Groups accounts for substantial modification of terms of an existing liability or part of it as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new liability.
It is assumed that the terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using the original effective rate is at least 10% different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original financial liability.
The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the other financial liabilities category.
Such financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when, and only when, the Group has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Derivative Financial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are classified at fair value through profit or loss unless they are in a designated hedge relationship.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured at their fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Interest rate derivatives transacted to fix interest rates on floating rate borrowings are accounted for as cash flow hedges and changes in the fair values resulting from changes in market interest rates are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the statement of profit or loss when the hedged transaction affects profit and loss.
Any ineffectiveness on hedging instruments and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the statement of profit or loss within finance costs as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is retained there until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred.
Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not USD are translated into USD at the rate of exchange in effect on the statement of financial position date.
The related equity accounts of subsidiaries are translated into USD at the historical rate of exchange.
Income and expenses are translated into USD at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
Foreign currency gains and losses resulting from the translation of subsidiaries into USD are recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to a separate translation reserve within equity.
They are recycled and recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss upon disposal of the operation.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Hyperinflationary Economies IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies IAS 29 requires financial statements to be stated in terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period whose functional currency is the currency of a hyperinflationary economy.
The financial information is restated based on the consumer price index CPI before being translated into a different presentation currency.
All amounts are translated at the closing exchange rate at the date of the most recent Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Hyperinflation is indicated by the characteristics of an economy, which includes a cumulative inflation rate over three years that approaches or exceeds 100 percent, sales and purchases on credit take place at prices that compensate for the expected loss of purchasing power during the credit period, even if the period is short and the general population prefers to keep its wealth in non-monetary assets or in a relatively stable foreign currency.
ConvaTec Group Plc 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Hyperinflationary Economies continued Venezuela has been considered as a hyperinflationary economy since 2010.
The hyperinflation accounting has been applied to Boston Estada Venezuela based subsidiary in the Financial Statements.
The financial information of the subsidiary has been restated for the changes in the CPI as published by the Central Bank of Venezuela of the functional currency and, as a result, are stated in terms of the measuring unit current at the end of the reporting period.
This complies with the accounting treatment described in IAS 29.
The gain on the net monetary position in 2017 and 2016 were $10.4 million and $12.2 million, respectively.
The following table summarises the changes in the Venezuelan CPI for the reporting periods ended 31 December 2017 and 2016: Movement from previous reporting Reporting Period CPI period 31 December 2016 7,729.5 228.0% 31 December 2017 25,338.5 228.0% Base period, 31 December 2007 100 Retirement Benefit Costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are recognised as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period.
Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on scheme assets excluding interest are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position with a charge or credit to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss in the period in which they occur.
Remeasurement recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Loss is not recycled.
Past service cost is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss in the period of scheme amendment.
Net-interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Operating leases Payments made under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Finance leases Leases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases as if the asset had been purchased outright.
Assets acquired under the finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group and the capital and interest elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations to creditors.
Depreciation is charged on a consistent basis with similar owned assets or over the lease term if shorter.
The interest element of the lease payment is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss on a basis which produces a consistent rate of charge over the period of the liability.
Non-current Assets Held for Sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
ConvaTec Group Plc 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 4.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions, that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses for the years presented.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The following two areas of critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty have been identified as having significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period: Critical accounting judgements Revenue recognition The Group has a number of agreements with customers which require careful consideration as to when revenue recognition is appropriate.
In managements assessment of the judgements against the accounting criteria, the terms of each contract are assessed.
Together with available historic information and trends, informed decisions are made to ensure appropriate allowances are recognised.
Refer to Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition for detailed information of the Groups accounting policy.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGU or groups of CGUs to which goodwill and intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the present value of future cash flows of CGUs.
The future cash flows are based on the forecasts, as approved by the Board, to which the managements expectation of terminal value growth rates are applied.
The present value is then calculated based on managements judgement of future discount rates.
The Board reviews these key assumptions terminal value growth rates and discount rates and the sensitivity analysis around these assumptions.
Refer to Note 15 Intangible Assets and Note 16 Goodwill for further details.
Uncertain tax position The Group operates globally and is required to submit tax returns to the relevant tax authorities in numerous tax jurisdictions.
Whilst the Groups policy is to submit tax returns on a timely basis, at any given time tax authorities have years outstanding to make additional tax assessments, or initiate tax audits.
This may result in tax disputes, and significant issues may take several years to resolve.
The assessment and recognition of tax charges and benefits requires management judgement supplemented by views of external advisors, as needed.
Tax charges related to tax risks are included within deferred tax liabilities, or current tax liabilities where applicable.
The ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided depending on interpretation of or changes in tax laws, regulations and other authoritative tax guidance in the various tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Group defines an uncertain tax treatment or uncertain tax position as an item, the tax treatment of which is either unclear or is a matter of unresolved dispute between the Groups reporting entities and the relevant tax authority.
Uncertain tax treatments occur where there is an uncertainty as to the meaning of the law, or to the applicability of the law to a particular transaction, or both.
The Group considers the following items when determining uncertain tax positions: interpretation of local country tax law, previous experience with tax authorities, likelihood of agreeing to proposed settlement offers, and advice of local country tax advisors.
The Group measures uncertain tax positions as the single likely amount of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period.
The single likely amount approach utilises the single most likely amount of a range of possible outcomes.
With respect to detection risk, the Group assumes that where a taxation authority has a right to examine amounts reported to it, they will do so: and that when it performs those examinations, the taxation authority will have full knowledge of all relevant information.
ConvaTec Group Plc 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segment Information The Groups management considers its business to be a single segment entity, being engaged in the development, manufacture and sales of medical products and technologies.
The Group is a global medical products and technologies group focused on therapies for the management of chronic conditions, including products used for advanced chronic and acute wound care, ostomy care and management, continence and critical care, and infusion devices used in the treatment of diabetes and other conditions.
The Group sells a broad range of products to a wide range of customers, including healthcare providers, patients and manufacturers.
The R&D manufacturing and central functions are managed globally for the Group.
The revenues are managed both on a franchise and regional basis.
The Groups CEO, who is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker evaluates the Groups global product portfolios on a revenue basis and generally evaluates profitability and associated investment on an enterprise-wide basis due to shared geographic infrastructures between the franchises.
In making these decisions, the CEO evaluates the financial information on a Group wide basis to determine the most appropriate allocation of resources.
This financial information relating to revenues provided to the CEO for the decision making purposes is made on a combination of a franchise and regional basis, however profitability measures are presented on a global basis.
Revenue by franchise The Group generates revenue across four major market franchises: Advanced Wound Care.
The Advanced Wound Care franchise includes advanced wound dressings and skin care products.
These dressings and products are used for the management of chronic wounds resulting from ongoing conditions such as diabetes, immobility and venous disease, as well as acute conditions resulting from traumatic injury, burns, invasive surgery and other causes.
The Ostomy Care franchise includes devices, accessories and services for people with an ostomy or stoma a surgically-created opening where bodily waste is discharged, commonly resulting from colorectal cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, bladder cancer, obesity and other causes.
Continence and Critical Care CCC.
The CCC franchise includes products for people with urinary continence issues related to spinal cord injuries, multiple sclerosis, spina bifida and other causes.
The franchise also includes devices and products used in intensive care units and hospital settings.
The Infusion Devices franchise provides disposable infusion sets to manufacturers of insulin pumps for diabetes and similar pumps used in continuous infusion treatments for other conditions.
In addition, the franchise supplies a range of products to hospitals and the home healthcare sector.
The following table sets forth the Groups revenue for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 by market franchise: 2017 2016 $m $m Revenue by market franchise Advanced Wound Care 577.8 559.5 Ostomy Care 528.9 512.1 Continence and Critical Care 382.9 356.5 Infusion Devices 275.0 260.2 1,764.6 1,688.3 Geographic information Geographic markets The following table sets forth the Groups revenue for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 in each geographic market in which customers are located: 2017 2016 $m $m Geographic markets EMEA 733.0 726.4 Americas 898.1 829.4 APAC 133.5 132.5 1,764.6 1,688.3 ConvaTec Group Plc 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 5.
Segment Information continued Geographic information continued Geographic regions The following table sets forth the Groups revenue for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 on the basis of geographic regions where the legal entity resides and from which those revenues were made: 2017 2016 $m $m Geographic regions US 591.1 543.8 Denmark 298.0 293.5 UK 149.4 157.0 Switzerland 107.8 110.8 France 92.5 90.1 a Other 525.8 493.1 1,764.6 1,688.3 a Other consists primarily of countries in Europe, APAC, Latin America and Canada.
The following table sets forth the Groups long-lived assets at 31 December 2017 and 2016 by geographic regions: 2017 2016 $m $m a Long-lived assets US 1,071.2 1,125.0 UK 438.8 432.9 Denmark 142.1 124.8 Slovakia 69.2 45.0 Dominican Republic 60.0 42.4 Netherlands 19.1 b Other 20.9 16.1 Total long-lived assets 1,821.3 1,786.2 a Long-lived assets consist of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
b Other consists primarily of countries in Europe and Latin America.
Major Customers In 2017 and 2016, no single customer generated more than 10% of the Groups revenue.
Auditor Remuneration Auditor remuneration for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 is as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Fees for audit services Group 1.8 5.0 Subsidiaries 1.5 3.7 Total fees for audit services 3.3 8.7 Fees for non-audit services Audit-related assurance services 0.6 Corporate finance transactions 3.4 Other non-audit services 0.1 Total fees for non-audit services 0.7 3.4 Total auditor remuneration 4.0 12.1 Auditor remuneration has reduced in 2017 as a result of additional audit and non-audit services performed as part of the IPO process in 2016.
ConvaTec Group Plc 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Staff Costs The following table details the numbers of the Groups employees by function full and part time at 31 December 2017 and 2016: 2017 2016 Operations 6,189 5,376 Sales and marketing 2,360 2,220 General and administrative 688 680 R&D 304 248 Total 9,541 8,524 The following table details the numbers of the Groups employees by location full and part time at 31 December 2017 and 2016: 2017 2016 EMEA 3,707 3,470 Americas 5,361 4,578 APAC 473 476 Total 9,541 8,524 The following table details the Groups employees aggregate remuneration full and part time at 31 December 2017 and 2016: 2017 2016 $m $m a Wages and salaries 338.3 349.1 b Share-based compensation 36.9 86.7 Social security costs 75.5 72.9 Pension related costs 16.6 16.3 Recruitment and other employment related fees 4.6 3.9 Total 471.9 528.9 a Includes wages, salaries and bonuses.
b Refer to Note 24 Share-Based Payments for further details.
The remuneration of the Directors is set out on pages 80 to 89 within the Remuneration Report described as being audited and forms part of these Financial Statements.
Finance Costs Finance costs for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m a Interest expense on borrowings 54.8 233.8 Loss on extinguishment of debt 21.9 Amortisation of deferred financing fees and OID 4.8 8.9 b Write-off of deferred financing fees 7.3 Interest expense on finance leases 1.8 0.6 Interest cost on derivative financial instruments 1.8 Other income 1.5 1.7 Other expense 0.4 0.6 Finance costs 62.1 271.4 a Refer to Note 19 Borrowings for further details.
b Includes the write-off of deferred financing fees related to i the Groups revolving credit facility financing in October 2016 $3.8 million and ii the commitment letter entered into connection with the financing of the Groups credit facilities $3.5 million.
Refer to Note 19 Borrowings for further information.
ConvaTec Group Plc 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 9.
Other Expense, Net Other expense, net for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 was as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m a Foreign exchange loss on restructuring of certain foreign subsidiaries 36.4 b Foreign exchange losses gains 23.8 44.1 c Gain on sale of assets 2.6 0.4 d Foreign currency forward exchange contract 17.8 Other 0.5 1.3 Other expense, net 21.7 8.4 a Refer to Note 22 Share Capital and Reserves for further details.
b Primarily relates to the foreign currency impact on intercompany transactions, including loans transacted in non-functional currencies and foreign exchange losses as a result of hyperinflation accounting.
Additionally, foreign exchange gain for the year ended 31 December 2016 includes foreign currency impact on re-measurement of the Groups borrowings denominated in non-functional currency.
c The gain on sale of assets during the year ended 31 December 2017 relates to the sale of fully depreciated assets in Malaysia.
d On 25 October 2016, the Group entered into foreign currency forward-exchange contracts to i sell 332.6 million and buy euro and ii sell 1,092.5 million and buy USD in order to reduce its exposure to the variability in expected cash inflows attributable to the changes in foreign exchange rates related to the repayment of our borrowings immediately following the listing refer to Note 19 Borrowings for further information.
These derivative contracts are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, and such contracts matured on 31 October 2016.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Company recorded a foreign exchange loss of $17.8 million in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss related to the settlement of these derivative contracts.
Tax on profit loss for the year Current tax on profit before income taxes in 2017 loss before income taxes in 2016 is recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, along with any change in the provision for deferred tax: 2017 2016 $m $m Current UK current year charge 2.3 4.7 Overseas taxation 35.7 35.3 Adjustment for prior years 0.1 0.2 Total current tax expense 38.1 39.8 Deferred Origination and reversal of temporary differences 9.1 43.4 Change in tax rate 22.8 5.7 Adjustment for prior years 0.6 0.5 Total deferred tax benefit expense 32.5 37.2 Income tax expense 5.6 77.0 ConvaTec Group Plc 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Income Taxes continued B. Reconciliation of effective tax rate Variance in effective tax rate on prior year The effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2017 was 3.4% as compared with 61.2% for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The variance in the effective tax rate on prior year is primarily driven by 2017 impacts of: US tax reform benefit of $28.1 million related to reduction in federal tax rate and implementation of participation exemption on dividends: Woodbury M&A purchase accounting benefit of $9.9 million: unremitted earnings benefit primarily in the Dominican Republic of $18.4 million: the impact of lower non-deductible costs incurred in 2017, including share based compensation and 2016 related IPO and reorganisation costs: and the 2016 prior year effect on deferred benefit of $10.8 million.
The reduction in the US main rate 35% to 21% and Luxembourg main rate 19% to 18% generated tax charges of $33.6 million and $17.1 million, respectively, on re-measurement of deferred tax assets.
As these deferred tax assets are fully provided for, there was no impact on the effective tax rate as shown below.
Key factors influencing the effective tax rate The Companys tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of profits and its ability to recognise unrealised losses primarily in the US.
Other factors that could influence the effective tax rate include tax rate changes, changes in tax legislation or regulations in jurisdictions where the Company does business, evolving developments and implementation of the OECDs BEPS Actions, or tax disputes.
2017 2016 $m $m Profit loss before income taxes 164.0 125.8 Profit before tax multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19.25% 2016: 20% 31.5 25.2 Difference between UK and rest of world tax rates 10.4 13.1 Non-deductible non-taxable items 4.1 35.6 Previously unrecognised losses and other assets 5.0 19.0 Amortisation of indefinite life intangibles 8.1 7.9 Taxes on unremitted earnings 2.4 20.0 Deferred impact of tax rate changes 22.8 5.7 Prior year effect on deferred 10.8 Previously unrecognised tax benefits 4.2 1.6 Other 3.3 0.1 Income tax expense reported in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss at the effective tax rate 5.6 3.4% 77.0 61.2 % C. Movement in deferred tax balances A provision is recorded for deferred tax on the basis of all temporary differences in accordance with the balance sheet liability method.
Temporary differences arise between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts which are offset over time.
Deferred tax is measured on the basis of the tax rates applicable at the statement of financial position date.
The UK main rate is reduced to 17% effective 1 April 2020.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future positive taxable income will be generated, against which the temporary differences and tax losses can be offset.
Deferred tax assets are measured at expected net realisable values in 2017 and 2016.
The following table shows movements in the deferred tax assets and liabilities: Loss Intercompany carry Employee Fixed Unremitted profit on Inventory forward benefits Equity assets Intangibles earnings inventory Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2016 0.7 5.6 1.3 38.1 7.4 155.6 3.4 14.6 2.1 181.6 Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.5 1.4 0.7 14.6 17.3 Movement in Income statement 0.3 5.3 0.2 4.5 1.1 3.5 29.6 3.4 5.1 37.2 Movement in Other comprehensive income 0.3 31.6 31.3 At 1 January 2017 1.0 0.4 1.3 0.6 7.8 144.5 33.0 18.0 3.0 170.2 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.5 0.2 1.0 9.3 0.7 10.6 Movement in Income statement 1.6 2.7 0.5 2.1 0.5 36.0 2.4 6.7 1.2 32.5 Movement in Other comprehensive income 0.2 0.2 Other 0.6 1.8 0.7 16.8 1.8 14.5 At 31 December 2017 0.3 2.0 1.7 9.0 134.6 30.6 11.3 3.1 162.6 The Group offsets non-current deferred tax assets and liabilities in jurisdictions where group tax relief or consolidated tax filing is available.
ConvaTec Group Plc 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 10.
Income Taxes continued D. Components of deferred tax assets and liabilities The components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Deferred tax assets 9.6 22.0 Deferred tax liabilities 172.2 192.2 Net position at the end of the period 162.6 170.2 E. Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items, because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can use the benefits therefrom.
The following is a summary of unrecognised deferred tax assets at 31 December 2017 and 2016: 2017 2016 $m $m Deductible taxable temporary differences 49.2 Tax losses 2,217.4 1,878.1 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 2,217.4 1,927.3 F. Tax losses carried forward The Group recorded UK net corporation tax losses carried forwards of $17.6 million and overseas net corporation tax losses carried forwards of $2,236.2 million at 31 December 2017.
The Group recorded UK net corporation tax losses carried forwards of $15.4 million, and overseas net corporation tax losses carried forwards of $1,872.5 million at 31 December 2016.
UK net corporation tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
The 2017 overseas net corporation tax losses carried forwards and years in which they begin to expire are shown below: Gross Corporation Corporation tax losses tax losses Country $m expiration Luxembourg 1,640.1 Indefinite US 533.9 2021 Other overseas 62.2 Various Total 2,236.2 11.
Dividends Any decision to declare and pay dividends will be made at the discretion of the Directors and will depend on, among other things, applicable law, regulation, restrictions, the Groups financial position, working capital requirements, restrictions on dividends in the Groups banking facilities, finance costs, general economic conditions and other factors the Directors deem significant.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting held in May 2017, shareholders approved the implementation of a Scrip Dividend Scheme the Scrip Scheme.
The Scrip Scheme enables ordinary shareholders to elect to receive new fully paid ordinary shares instead of cash.
The operation of the Scrip Scheme is always subject to the Directors decision to make the Scrip Scheme offer available in respect of any particular dividend.
Should the Directors decide not to offer the Scrip Scheme in respect of any particular dividend, cash will be paid automatically instead.
Under the current authority, the operation of the Scrip Scheme will cease on the date of the third Annual General Meeting of the Company, which will take place in 2019.
On 2 August 2017, the Board declared the first interim dividend in the total amount of $27.7 million, representing 1.4 cents per share based upon the issued and fully paid share capital as at 30 June 2017.
The dividend on ordinary shares was declared in USD and was paid in Sterling at the chosen exchange rate of $1.32 1.00 determined on 2 August 2017.
A scrip dividend alternative was offered in respect of the first interim dividend, allowing shareholders to elect to receive their dividend in the form of new ordinary shares at a Calculation Price of 272 pence for each new ordinary share which was equivalent to one new share for approximately 256.6 shares held prior to the ex-dividend date of 7 September 2017.
On 20 October 2017, 377,948 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were allotted and issued by the Company to those shareholders who elected to receive the scrip dividend alternative.
On 13 February 2018, the Board proposed the final dividend in respect of 2017 subject to shareholder approval at our Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2018, to be distributed on 17 May 2018 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 6 April 2018 in the total amount of $83.9 million, representing 4.3 cents per share based upon the issued and fully paid share capital as at 31 December 2017.
The dividend on ordinary shares shall be declared in USD and will be paid in Sterling at the chosen exchange rate of $1.39 1.00 determined on 13 February 2018.
A scrip dividend alternative shall be offered in respect of the final dividend, allowing shareholders to elect by 20 April 2018 to receive their dividend in the form of new ordinary shares.
The interim dividend of 1.4 cents per share and the final dividend of 4.3 cents per share gives a total dividend for the year of 5.7 cents per share.
ConvaTec Group Plc 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Earnings Per Share Basic and diluted earnings loss per ordinary share for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 was calculated as follows: 2017 2016 $m except share data Net profit loss attributable to the equity holders of the Group 158.4 202.8 Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue net of shares purchased by the Company and held as Own shares 1,951,006,350 1,376,365,276 Dilutive impact of share awards 2,935,460 Diluted weighted average ordinary shares in issue 1,953,941,810 1,376,365,276 Basic earnings loss per share $ per share 0.08 0.15 Diluted earnings loss per share $ per share 0.08 0.15 In 2016, all share awards were excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share, as the effect of including them would have been anti-dilutive.
The dilutive effect of potential shares issuable for share awards on the weighted average ordinary shares in issue would have been as follows: 2016 Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue 1,376,365,276 Dilutive effect of share awards 282,672 Diluted weighted average ordinary shares in issue 1,376,647,948 Share options to purchase approximately 5,231,000 and 3,120,000 ordinary shares of the Group were not included in the computation of diluted earnings loss per share for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively, because the exercise prices of the share options were greater than the average market price of the Groups ordinary shares and, therefore, the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries Woodbury Holdings Woodbury Description of the transaction On 1 September 2017, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Woodbury for a total cash consideration of approximately $84.8 million, including $4.7 million of the cash and cash equivalents acquired.
Woodbury provides an extensive array of incontinence and catheter products, as well as nutritional, enteral feeding and vascular compression supplies.
Woodbury has national distribution across the US, delivering directly to customers in the home environment.
The acquisition will provide further breadth and reach to the Groups home distribution unit and further consolidate the Groups leading position in this market and bring its comprehensive end-to-end suite of services to even more patients.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed The transaction has been accounted for as a business combination under the acquisition method of accounting.
The following table summarises the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of acquisition date.
The following recognised amounts are provisional and subject to change: amounts for income tax assets and liabilities, pending finalisation of estimates and assumptions in respect of certain tax aspects of the transaction: and amount of goodwill pending the completion of the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The Group will finalise these amounts as it obtains the information necessary to complete the measurement process.
Any changes resulting from facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date may result in retrospective adjustments to the provisional amounts recognised at the acquisition date.
The Group will finalise these amounts no later than one year from the acquisition date.
ConvaTec Group Plc 130 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 13.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued Woodbury Holdings Woodbury continued Provisional amounts recognised as of acquisition date $m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 0.2 a Intangible assets 43.4 Other assets 0.1 Current assets b Inventories 1.6 c Trade and other receivables 8.6 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents 4.7 Total assets 59.0 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 3.1 d Borrowings 1.3 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 4.4 Non-current liabilities d Borrowings 30.0 Deferred tax liabilities 9.9 Total liabilities 48.7 Net assets acquired 10.3 e Initial cash consideration 79.5 f Deferred purchase consideration paid into escrow 5.3 Total consideration 84.8 g Goodwill arising on acquisition 74.5 Year ended 31 December 2017 $m Analysis of cash outflow in the Condensed Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Initial cash consideration 79.5 Cash acquired on acquisition 4.7 Deferred purchase consideration paid into escrow 5.3 Net cash outflow on acquisition per Condensed Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 80.1 a The following table summarises the provisional amounts and useful lives assigned to identifiable intangible assets: Provisional amounts Weighted average recognised as of useful lives acquisition date Years $m Finite-lived intangible assets: Customer relationship 8 years 40.9 Indefinite-lived intangible assets: 1 Trade name Indefinite lived 2.5 Total intangible assets 43.4 1 The provisional amount of indefinite-lived trade name has been allocated to the Groups Woodbury Catheter $1.3 million and Woodbury Incontinence $1.2 million CGU.
b Includes an estimated fair value adjustment to inventory of $0.1 million.
c The fair value of receivables acquired approximate the gross contractual amounts receivable.
The amount of gross contractual receivables not expected to be recovered is immaterial.
d Effective 1 September, 2017, the date of acquisition, the Group terminated the term loan and revolver agreement, repaid the assumed debt outstanding and cancelled the undrawn revolver facilities.
e The initial cash consideration includes cash at closing of $4.7 million.
f $5.3 million was paid on closing into escrow as security for the due and punctual fulfilment by the seller of its obligations under the Share Purchase Agreement.
The escrow account will be maintained for three years, of which i $0.4 million was released after 60 days, ii an additional $0.9 million will be released after 18 months, and iii the remaining $4.0 million will be released after three years.
g Goodwill is calculated as the difference between the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The goodwill recorded represents the following: costs savings and operating synergies expected to result from combining the operations of Woodbury with those of the Group: and intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition for instance, Woodburys assembled workforce.
The provisional amount of goodwill has been allocated to the Groups Woodbury Catheter $44.7 million and Woodbury Incontinence $29.8 million CGU.
ConvaTec Group Plc 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued Woodbury Holdings Woodbury continued Acquisition-related costs The Group incurred $0.9 million of transaction costs directly related to the Woodbury acquisition through 31 December 2017, which includes expenditures for advisory, legal, valuation, accounting and other similar services.
These costs have been expensed as acquisition-related costs.
Revenue and net profit of Woodbury The revenue of Woodbury for the period from the acquisition date to 31 December 2017 was $18.9 million and net profit, net of tax, was $0.1 million.
The net profit, net of tax, includes the effects of the acquisition accounting adjustments.
EuroTec Description of the transaction On 3 January 2017, the Group acquired the entire share capital of EuroTec for a total cash consideration of approximately $30.4 million 29.3 million, including $5.0 million 4.9 million of the cash and cash equivalents acquired.
EuroTec manufactures ostomy care systems and commercialises its products directly in the Benelux region and through distributor partners in other markets.
The acquisition was made to complement the product portfolio and services provided to the ostomy market.
The following table summarises the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of acquisition date: Amounts recognised as of acquisition date $m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 6.1 a Intangible assets 12.5 Current assets b Inventories 4.4 c Trade and other receivables 1.3 Cash and cash equivalents 5.0 Total assets 29.3 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 0.7 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 0.2 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 4.1 Total liabilities 5.0 Net assets acquired 24.3 d Initial cash consideration 26.3 e Deferred purchase consideration paid into escrow 4.1 Total consideration 30.4 f Goodwill arising on acquisition 6.1 Year ended 31 December 2017 $m Analysis of cash outflow in the Condensed Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Initial cash consideration 26.3 Cash acquired on acquisition 5.0 Deferred purchase consideration paid into escrow 4.1 Net cash outflow on acquisition per Condensed Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 25.4 ConvaTec Group Plc 132 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 13.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued EuroTec continued a The following table summarises the amounts and useful lives assigned to identifiable intangible assets: Amounts Weighted average recognised as of useful lives acquisition date Years $m Finite-lived intangible assets: Technology, one-piece ostomy system 8 years 8.4 Technology, two-piece ostomy system 8 years 3.1 Technology, accessories 7 years 1.0 Total intangible assets 12.5 b Includes the fair value adjustment to inventory of $1.5 million.
d The initial cash consideration includes cash at closing of $5.0 million 4.9 million.
e 4.0 million $4.1 million was paid on closing into escrow as security for the due and punctual fulfilment by the seller of its obligations under the Share Purchase Agreement.
The escrow account will be maintained for three years, of which 50% 2.0 million will be released to seller on 3 July 2018 and the remaining balance will be released after the third year.
f Goodwill is calculated as the difference between the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
None of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.
The goodwill recorded represents the following: costs savings and operating synergies expected to result from combining the operations of EuroTec with those of the Group: and intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition for instance, EuroTecs assembled workforce.
Goodwill has been allocated to the Groups EMEA CGU.
Acquisition-related costs The Group incurred $0.6 million of transaction costs directly related to the EuroTec acquisition through 31 December 2016, which includes expenditures for advisory, legal, valuation, accounting and other similar services.
There were no transaction costs related to the EuroTec acquisition in the year ended 31 December 2017.
Revenue and net loss of EuroTec The revenue of EuroTec for the period from the acquisition date to 31 December 2017 was $11.3 million and net loss, net of tax, was $0.5 million.
The net loss, net of tax, includes the effects of the acquisition accounting adjustments.
Property, Plant and Equipment The major categories of property, plant and equipment PP&E and movement in the carrying value of each category is as follows: Building, building equipment, Machinery, Land and land and leasehold equipment Construction improvements improvements and fixtures in progress Total $m $m $m $m $m Property, Plant and Equipment at Cost At 1 January 2016 19.7 115.4 333.1 44.1 512.3 Additions 25.5 2.7 62.8 91.0 Impairments write offs 1.3 5.1 11.1 4.5 22.0 Disposals 1.1 10.3 0.1 11.5 Transfers 3.7 30.5 34.2 a Reclassified as held for sale 1.9 11.5 13.4 Foreign exchange 1.6 10.6 21.1 5.6 38.9 At 31 December 2016 14.9 116.3 323.8 62.5 517.5 Additions 0.2 11.7 64.2 76.1 Acquisitions see Note 13 1.1 2.1 3.1 6.3 Write offs 0.3 8.7 9.0 Disposals 0.5 3.0 13.9 1.0 18.4 Transfers 16.4 38.4 54.8 Foreign exchange 1.3 9.5 28.5 4.7 44.0 31 December 2017 16.8 141.2 382.9 75.6 616.5 ConvaTec Group Plc 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Property, Plant and Equipment continued Building, building equipment, Machinery, Land and land and leasehold equipment Construction improvements improvements and fixtures in progress Total $m $m $m $m $m Accumulated Depreciation 1 January 2016 1.0 47.0 212.8 260.8 b Depreciation 0.6 11.2 27.2 39.0 Write offs 1.9 9.0 10.9 Disposals 1.1 9.8 10.9 On assets reclassified as held for sale 0.3 7.5 7.8 Foreign exchange 0.1 3.6 13.8 17.5 31 December 2016 1.2 44.1 207.4 252.7 b Depreciation 0.1 7.7 26.8 34.6 Write offs 0.1 8.4 8.5 Disposals 0.5 3.0 12.9 16.4 Foreign exchange 2.7 17.4 20.1 31 December 2017 0.8 51.4 230.3 282.5 a In 2016, the Group signed an agreement for the sale of the Skillman facility and subsequently transferred the $5.6 million carrying value of related assets to Assets held for sale.
The transaction closed in 2017. b Includes accelerated depreciation of $1.3 million and $11.1 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively, related to the closure of certain manufacturing facilities.
Building, building equipment, Machinery, Land and land and leasehold equipment Construction improvements improvements and fixtures in progress Total $m $m $m $m $m Net carrying amount 31 December 2016 13.7 72.2 116.4 62.5 264.8 31 December 2017 16.0 89.8 152.6 75.6 334.0 Included within Building, building equipment and leasehold improvements, and Machinery, equipment and fixtures are finance leases with a net carrying value of i $23.6 million and $0.4 million, respectively, at 31 December 2017 and ii $22.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively, at 31 December 2016.
The Group recorded write-off charges on PP&E of $0.5 million for the year ended 31 December 2017.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group recorded impairment and write-off charges on PP&E of $11.1 million.
The charges recorded for the year ended 31 December 2016 were primarily related to i an impairment of $4.6 million included in General and administrative expenses, related to the Groups former corporate facility located in Skillman, New Jersey and ii asset write-offs of $6.5 million, in the aggregate, of which $5.7 million, $0.7 million, and $0.1 million were included in Cost of goods sold, General and administrative expenses, and Research and development expenses, respectively.
The asset write-offs for the year ended 31 December 2016 were primarily related to restructuring activities associated with the closure of the Groups manufacturing operations in Greensboro, US, which are described further in Note 20 Provisions.
Asset impairment charges were measured at fair value less costs to sell market value approach using significant unobservable inputs that are categorised as Level 3 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
ConvaTec Group Plc 134 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 15.
Intangible Assets The major categories of intangible assets and the changes in the carrying value of each category were as follows: Patents, Contracts trademarks Acquired Internally and Nonand capitalised generated customer compete Trade Development a licenses Technology software software relationship agreements names costs Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Intangibles at cost 1 January 2016 1,954.0 224.3 75.9 7.1 247.4 5.7 255.5 7.1 2,777.0 Additions 0.1 6.0 1.4 7.5 b Disposals 2.8 4.5 7.3 c Impairments 0.1 0.1 d Foreign exchange 100.5 24.0 0.2 4.3 0.1 0.4 0.2 129.7 31 December 2016 1,853.5 200.3 73.0 13.1 238.6 5.6 255.1 8.2 2,647.4 Additions 9.2 0.1 2.1 11.4 Acquisitions see Note 13 12.5 40.9 2.5 55.9 Disposals Impairments d Foreign exchange 49.1 20.5 0.2 0.1 13.1 2.1 1.2 86.3 31 December 2017 1,902.6 233.3 73.2 22.4 292.7 5.6 259.7 11.5 2,801.0 a Internally generated development costs.
b In 2016, the Group disposed of fully amortised intangible assets related to i acquired capitalised software and ii contracts and customer relationships.
c The impairment relates to development costs which no longer satisfy criteria of IAS 38. d Primarily related to intangible assets denominated in British Pound sterling.
Patents, Contracts trademarks Acquired Internally and Nonand capitalised generated customer compete Trade Development licenses Technology software software relationship agreements names costs Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Accumulated amortisation 1 January 2016 803.7 95.0 56.3 1.7 81.5 3.5 1.6 4.6 1,047.9 Amortisation 106.2 13.1 5.0 1.1 15.3 1.0 0.5 0.6 142.8 Disposals 2.8 4.5 7.3 Foreign exchange 44.2 10.7 2.2 0.1 0.2 57.4 31 December 2016 865.7 97.4 58.5 2.8 90.1 4.4 2.1 5.0 1,126.0 Amortisation 104.6 14.5 5.0 2.1 17.1 0.8 0.5 0.2 144.8 Foreign exchange 24.6 10.0 0.2 7.6 0.1 0.6 42.9 31 December 2017 994.9 121.9 63.7 4.9 114.8 5.1 2.6 5.8 1,313.7 Patents, Contracts trademarks Acquired Internally and Nonand capitalised generated customer compete Trade Development licenses Technology software software relationship agreements names costs Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Net carrying amounts 31 December 2016 987.8 102.9 14.5 10.3 148.5 1.2 253.0 3.2 1,521.4 31 December 2017 907.7 111.4 9.5 17.5 177.9 0.5 257.1 5.7 1,487.3 The carrying amount of indefinite-lived trade names was $254.7 million and $250.3 million at 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Each of these trade names is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the trade name and the level of marketing support.
The trade names are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the trade names is considered to be relatively low.
The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their useful lives.
Accordingly, these indefinite-lived trade names are not amortised.
ConvaTec Group Plc 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15.
Intangible Assets continued The carrying values of indefinite-lived intangible assets i. e. indefinite-lived trade names allocated to each of the Groups CGUs see Note 16 Goodwill for definition of CGUs at 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m CGUs Americas 234.6 234.6 180 Medical 1.6 1.6 a Woodbury Catheter 1.3 a Woodbury Incontinence 1.2 ID 14.2 12.3 IS 1.8 1.8 Indefinite-lived intangible assets 254.7 250.3 a Relates to the Woodbury acquisition.
Refer to Note 13 for further details.
In 2017 and 2016, the Group performed its annual CGU-based impairment tests in respect of indefinite-lived intangible assets and determined that none of its indefinite-lived intangible assets were impaired.
Refer to Note 16 Goodwill for details of the annual CGU-based impairment tests.
Amortisation expense related to finite-lived intangible assets for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 was as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Cost of goods sold 123.4 123.8 General and administrative expenses 21.2 19.0 Research and development expenses 0.2 Total amortisation expense 144.8 142.8 16.
Goodwill The changes in the carrying value of goodwill for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Total $m 1 January 2016 1,019.3 Effect of foreign currency translation rates 98.3 31 December 2016 921.0 a Additions 80.6 Effect of foreign currency translation rates 70.6 31 December 2017 1,072.2 a Relates to the Woodbury and EuroTec acquisitions as described in Note 13.
The Group identifies CGUs at the operating company level as this represents the lowest level at which cash flows are largely independent of other cash flows.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the Groups CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The Group has identified eight CGUs in applying the provisions of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets: i Americas, ii 180 Medical, iii Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA, iv Asia-Pacific APAC, v Woodbury Catheter, vi Woodbury Incontinence, vii Infusion Devices ID, and viii Industrial Sales IS.
ConvaTec Group Plc 136 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 16.
Goodwill continued Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGUs as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m CGUs a Americas 15.3 15.2 a 180 Medical 241.3 237.6 a b EMEA 647.8 582.9 c Woodbury Catheter 44.7 c Woodbury Incontinence 29.8 a ID 53.4 47.4 a IS 39.9 37.9 Goodwill 1,072.2 921.0 a The Group has completed an evaluation of goodwill for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount of each CGU with its carrying amount, including goodwill.
b Includes goodwill from the EuroTec acquisition as described in Note 13. c Represents goodwill from the Woodbury acquisition.
The goodwill recognized for the Woodbury acquisition has been allocated to the Groups Woodbury Catheter and Woodbury Incontinence CGU, which to date has been recorded provisionally, will be tested for impairment within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Refer to Note 13 for further information.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations, which are based on estimated future cash flows of each CGU discounted by an estimated weighted average cost of capital, reflecting the overall level of inherent risk of a CGU and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
Determining the estimated recoverable amount of a CGU is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including estimated future cash flows and discount rates.
Future cash flows are determined using Board approved forecasts.
Such forecasts are based on the revenue growth, earnings and strategy plans.
These forecasts are based on specific assumptions for each CGU during the planning period with respect to revenue, results of operations, working capital, capital investments and other general assumptions for the projected period.
The forecast assumptions are based on the historical results of each CGU combined with external market information.
The key assumptions used in the estimation of value in use at 31 December 2017 were as follows: 2017 Discount rate pre-tax % Americas 11.5 180 Medical 11.5 EMEA 12.0 ID 12.5 IS 14.5 a Terminal value growth rate 2.0 a The estimated terminal value growth rate of 2.0% for the CGUs is based on expectations concerning the growth trends of the CGUs and global gross domestic product, the CGUs strengths and weaknesses relative to its competitors and general long-term inflation and population expectations.
The key significant factors considered in analysis included the business risks and uncertainties introduced by the healthcare reform, such as the downward pressure on reimbursement rates.
In 2017 and 2016, the Group performed its annual goodwill impairment tests and determined that there was no goodwill impairment.
Sensitivity analysis shows that if terminal value growth rate assumptions are lowered by 2% and discount rates pre-tax increased by 2%, no goodwill impairment would arise at any of the CGUs.
ConvaTec Group Plc 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Inventories The components of inventories at 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Raw and packaging materials 77.2 53.7 Work in progress 29.5 23.0 Finished goods 177.8 170.8 Inventories 284.5 247.5 For the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, inventories of $685.2 million and $662.5 million, respectively, were recognised as an expense and included in Cost of goods sold.
The adjustments recorded as write-downs of inventory to net realisable value were $11.8 million and $15.0 million for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The write-downs are included in Cost of goods sold.
Trade and Other Receivables The following table contains balances for trade and other receivables at 31 December 2017 and 2016: 2017 2016 $m $m Trade receivables 298.9 266.9 Other receivables 12.6 6.9 Less: allowances for bad and doubtful debts 17.1 12.6 Less: sales discounts and chargebacks 25.4 27.5 Trade and other receivables 269.0 233.7 The Group establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables.
The Group believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts is sufficient to reflect the related credit risk associated with the Groups accounts receivable.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables at 31 December 2017 and 2016 was as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Current 221.8 192.7 Past due 1 to 30 days 16.1 20.8 Past due 31 to 90 days 17.7 15.8 Past due 91 to 180 days 11.5 19.3 Past due by more than 180 days 31.8 18.3 298.9 266.9 At 31 December 2017 and 2016, the unimpaired amounts that are past due are $60.0 million and $61.6 million, respectively.
There are no impaired trade receivables that are current.
The Group believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due are still collectible in full, based on historic payment behaviour and extensive analysis of customer credit risk.
Movements in the allowance for bad and doubtful debts for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m At the beginning of the period 12.6 14.0 Charges 8.7 2.0 Utilisation of provision 4.9 3.3 Foreign exchange adjustment 0.7 0.1 At the end of the period 17.1 12.6 ConvaTec Group Plc 138 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 19.
Borrowings A summary of the Groups consolidated borrowings at 31 December 2017 and 2016 is outlined in the table below: 2017 2016 $m $m Credit Facilities Agreement: Revolving Credit Facility US Dollar Term A Loan Facility 743.3 760.5 Euro Term A Loan Facility 632.9 567.5 US Dollar Term B Loan Facility 421.1 424.6 Total Credit Facilities 1,797.3 1,752.6 Finance Lease Obligations 25.6 23.0 Total borrowings 1,822.9 1,775.6 Less: Current portion of borrowings 78.2 38.5 Total non-current borrowings 1,744.7 1,737.1 The terms and conditions of total borrowings outstanding at 31 December 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 2016 Carrying Carrying Year of Face value amount Face value amount Currency maturity $m $m $m $m a Revolving Credit Facilities 2021 a US Dollar Term A Loan Facility USD 2021 750.8 743.3 770.0 760.5 a b Euro Term A Loan Facility EURO 2021 639.1 632.9 574.2 567.5 a US Dollar Term B Loan Facility USD 2023 425.7 421.1 430.0 424.6 Finance lease obligations EURO USD 25.6 25.6 23.0 23.0 Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,841.2 1,822.9 1,797.2 1,775.6 a The current nominal interest rates for the Credit Facilities included in the table above are described below.
b Total face value of the borrowings outstanding under the Euro Term A Loan Facility denominated in euros was 532.4 million $639.1 million and 546.0 million $574.2 million at 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The Groups Credit Facilities contain customary operating and negative covenants, including, among other things, covenants limiting: i incurrence of indebtedness: ii incurrence of liens: iii mergers, consolidations, liquidations, dissolutions and other fundamental changes: iv sales of assets: v dividends and other payments in respect of capital stock or junior debt subject to an available amount built by consolidated net income: vi acquisitions: vii transactions with affiliates: viii changes in fiscal year: ix negative pledge clauses and clauses restricting subsidiary distributions: and x holding companies.
The Groups Credit Facilities also contain a financial covenant, various customary affirmative covenants and specified events of default.
At 31 December 2017 and 2016, the Group was in compliance with all financial covenants associated with the Groups outstanding debt.
Credit Facilities On 25 October 2016, the Group entered into the Credit Agreement the Credit Agreement with various financial institutions the Financing.
The Credit Agreement provides for i term A loans denominated in USD of $770.0 million and euros of 546.0 million $594.7 million at 25 October 2016 the Term A Loan Facilities, ii term B loans denominated in USD of $430.0 million issued at an offering price of 99.5%, after adjustment for a discount of $2.2 million the Term B Loan Facility and together with the Term A Loan Facilities, the Term Loan Facilities and iii a $200.0 million revolving credit facility the Revolving Credit Facility, and together with the Term Loan Facilities, the Credit Facilities.
The Term A Loan Facilities are repayable in semi-annual instalments commencing 30 June 2017 in aggregate annual amounts equal to i 2.5% in year one, ii 5.0% in year two, iii 7.5% in year three, iv 10.0% in year four, and v 7.5% in year five, in each case of the original principal amount of the Term A Loan Facilities.
The Term B Loan Facility is repayable in semi-annual instalments commencing 30 June 2017 in an aggregate annual amount equal to 1.0% of the original principal amount of the Term B Loan Facility.
Interest on outstanding principal under the Credit Facilities is payable quarterly in arrears, providing that no interest payment date shall occur prior to 31 March 2017.
In connection with the Financing, the Group entered into a commitment letter dated 30 September 2016 with various financial institutions and incurred $3.5 million in fees, which were expensed to Finance costs in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
ConvaTec Group Plc 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Borrowings continued Credit Facilities continued The net proceeds from the Financing, together with the net proceeds from the issue of share capital, were used to i repay all amounts outstanding prior to the Financing under the US dollar and euro term B loans of $785.5 million and 741.3 million $807.3 million, respectively, and ii redeem all of the outstanding PIK Notes and all of the existing Senior Notes further discussed below.
As a result, for the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group recognised i a loss on extinguishment of debt of $21.9 million, in the aggregate, of which $2.6 million was recognised with respect to the pre-IPO term loan facilities and was comprised of $1.9 million of unamortised deferred financing fees and $0.7 million of unamortised original issue discount OID and ii a write off of deferred financing fees of $3.8 million related to the pre-IPO revolving credit facility.
The Group incurred fees of approximately $23.9 million, in the aggregate, of which $21.3 million were deferred and capitalised over the term of the Term Loan Facilities and $2.5 million were deferred and capitalised over the term of the Revolving Credit Facility recorded in Other assets.
The Revolving Credit Facility of $200.0 million is available through its termination date in certain currencies USD, euro and sterling at the borrowers option and is used to provide for ongoing working capital requirements, letters of credit, and general corporate purposes of the Group.
The Revolving Credit Facility allows for up to $50.0 million of letter of credit issuances as well as $25.0 million for borrowings on same-day notice, referred to as the swingline loans.
There were no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility at 31 December 2017 and 2016.
Availability under the Revolving Credit Facility, after deducting letters of credit of $7.1 million and $1.3 million, was $192.9 million and $198.7 million at 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The Credit Agreement also provides for the ability of the Group to enter into incremental term facilities the Incremental Term Facilities and incremental revolving facilities the Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities and to issue senior secured, senior unsecured, senior subordinated or subordinated notes the Incremental Notes and together with the Incremental Term Facilities and the Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities, the Incremental Facilities.
The Incremental Term Facilities and Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities are subject to certain conditions and are available in i a cash-capped amount equal to the greater of $475 million and consolidated EBITDA as of the end of the most recently ended two half-fiscal year period, provided that the consolidated total net leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement does not exceed 4.00 to 1.00, ii an unlimited amount so long as the maximum total leverage requirement as defined in the Credit Agreement is satisfied, and iii an amount equal to all voluntary prepayments or repurchases under the Term Loan Facilities and voluntary prepayments under the Revolving Credit Facility to the extent accompanied by a corresponding permanent reduction in the revolving commitments such sum, the Incremental Amount, in US dollars and or euro and, in the case of the Incremental Revolving Credit Facilities, pounds sterling, provided that the Group satisfies certain other requirements, including: no default or event of default, minimum borrowing amounts of $15.0 million and, in respect of Incremental Term Facilities, a maturity date and weighted average life to maturity of each individual loan within the Incremental Term Facilities that is greater than the weighted average maturity date of the Term Loan Facilities and if shorter, shall not have an amortisation of greater than 5.0% per annum.
Additionally, should the yield on any Incremental Term Facility exceed the interest margin on the Term Loan Facilities denominated in the same currency by more than 0.50%, then the yield on the applicable Term Loan Facilities will automatically increase such that the yield on such Term Loan Facilities denominated in the same currency shall be 0.50% below the yield on the applicable Incremental Term Facilities.
Any loan advances made under the Incremental Term Facilities will rank pari passu with or junior to the Term Loan Facilities and the Revolving Credit Facility.
The Incremental Notes shall not exceed the Incremental Amount and are available in US dollars and euro, provided that the Group satisfies certain other requirements, including: no default or event of default and the issuance shall be in an amount of no more than $15.0 million or its equivalent.
Subject to certain conditions, the Group may voluntarily prepay their utilisations under the Credit Facilities in a minimum amount of $1.0 million or its equivalent for term loans or revolving facilities.
Amounts repaid under the Term Loan Facilities may not be re-borrowed.
In addition to voluntary prepayments, the Credit Agreement requires mandatory prepayment in full or in part in certain circumstances including, in relation to the Term Loan Facilities and subject to certain criteria, from the proceeds of asset sales in excess of $20.0 million and the issuance or incurrence of debt and from excess cash flow.
In 2017, the Group made scheduled loan amortisation payments of $39.6 million, in the aggregate, related to the Credit Facilities.
In 2016, the Group made payments of $21.5 million, in the aggregate, related to the pre-IPO term loan facilities as follows: i mandatory prepayment of $17.4 million for excess cash retained in the business and ii scheduled March 2016 loan amortisation payment of $4.1 million.
ConvaTec Group Plc 140 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 19.
Borrowings continued Credit Facilities continued Borrowings under the Credit Facilities bear interest at either EURIBOR rate, Eurodollar rate, or an Alternate Base Rate ABR, in each case, plus an applicable margin.
Under the Term Loan Facilities, EURIBOR interest is associated with the borrowings in euros: while LIBOR and ABR interest is associated with borrowings in USD.
EURIBOR, Eurodollar or ABR interest rates may apply to any outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.
ABR, as defined in the Credit Agreement, is the greater of a the Prime Rate, b the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.50% or c the Eurodollar Rate for a one month interest period plus 1.00%, provided that the ABR for the Term Loan Facilities may not be less than 1.00%.
The Eurodollar rate is subject to a floor of 0.75% per annum in respect of the Term B Loan Facility and 0.00% per annum in respect of all other loans.
The margins applicable to the Term A Loan Facilities denominated in euro range from 2.0% to 2.25% and the margins applicable to the Term A Loan Facilities denominated in USD range from 1.0% to 1.25% if using ABR and 2.0% to 2.25% if using the Eurodollar rate and the margins applicable to the Term B Loan Facility range from 1.25% to 1.50% if using ABR and 2.25% to 2.50% if using the Eurodollar rate, in each case, with the relevant step-down in margin occurring depending on the relevant first lien net leverage ratio.
Senior Notes The Senior Notes consisted of $745.0 million the US Dollar Senior Notes and 250.0 million senior notes the Euro Senior Notes each due 15 December 2018 collectively, the Senior Notes.
The US Dollar Senior Notes and the Euro Senior Notes bore interest at the rate of 10.5% and 10.875% per annum, respectively, which was payable semi-annually on 15 June and 15 December of each year.
As discussed above, the Group redeemed all $745.0 million and 250.0 million $272.3 million of the outstanding principal amount of the US Dollar Senior Notes and Euro Senior Notes, respectively, plus accrued and unpaid interest of $39.1 million and 13.6 million $14.8 million, respectively.
In connection with these transactions, the Group recognised a loss on extinguishment of debt related to unamortised deferred financing fees of $9.1 million, in the aggregate, in the year ended 31 December 2016.
PIK Notes On 12 August 2013, the Group issued $900.0 million principal amount of the PIK Notes.
The PIK Notes accrued cash interest at a rate of 8.25% per annum and PIK Notes interest if cash interest was not elected to be paid at a rate of 9.00% per annum.
As discussed above, the Group redeemed all $900.0 million of the outstanding principal amount of the PIK Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest of $22.1 million.
In connection with this transaction, the Group recognised a loss on extinguishment of debt of $10.2 million, comprised of $6.8 million of unamortised deferred financing fees and $3.4 million of OID.
Interest Related Information Accrued interest related to the Groups borrowings was $0.7 million and $8.7 million at 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively, and is recorded in Accrued expenses and other current liabilities.
Interest expense for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 associated with the Groups borrowings was as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m a Revolving Credit Facility 1.0 1.4 US Dollar Term A Loan Facility 25.3 3.9 Euro Term A Loan Facility 13.3 2.3 US Dollar Term B Loan Facility 15.2 30.7 b Euro Term B Loan Facility 29.8 b 10.5% US Dollar Senior Notes 74.7 b 10.875% Euro Senior Notes 28.9 b 8.25% PIK Notes 62.1 Total interest expense on borrowings 54.8 233.8 a Represents the commitment fees in respect of unutilised commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility.
b As described above, on 25 October 2016, the Group entered into the Credit Agreement and immediately following the listing redeemed all if the outstanding i PIK Notes, ii US Dollar Senior Notes, and iii Euro Senior Notes and repaid all amounts outstanding under the existing credit facilities at that time.
The weighted average interest rate for borrowings under the Groups outstanding borrowings was 3.1% and 6.9% for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively.
ConvaTec Group Plc 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Borrowings continued Finance Lease Obligations The table below presents total obligations under finance leases at 31 December 2017 and 2016: Present value of lease Minimum lease payments payments 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Amount payable: Within 1 year 2.7 2.2 0.8 0.6 1 to 5 years inclusive 11.5 10.0 4.9 3.7 After 5 years 27.1 26.2 19.9 18.7 41.3 38.4 25.6 23.0 Less future finance charges 15.7 15.4 Total obligations under finance leases 25.6 23.0 25.6 23.0 Reconciliation of Liabilities Arising from Financing Activities Debt assumed on Cash Foreign Non-cash 2016 acquisition flows exchange movements 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Borrowings current 37.9 1.3 40.9 1.7 77.4 77.4 Borrowings non-current 1,714.7 30.0 30.0 78.3 73.1 1,719.9 Finance lease obligations current 0.6 0.6 0.1 0.7 0.8 Finance lease obligations non-current 22.4 3.1 0.7 24.8 Total liabilities from financing activities 1,775.6 31.3 71.5 83.2 4.3 1,822.9 20.
Provisions Legal Restructuring Decommissioning a a b provisions provisions provisions Total $m $m $m $m 1 January 2016 0.2 3.4 1.1 4.7 Charges 15.6 15.6 Utilisation 0.3 9.6 9.9 Changes in estimate 0.2 0.3 0.1 Foreign exchange impact 0.2 0.2 31 December 2016 0.1 9.3 1.1 10.5 Charges 1.0 0.4 1.4 Utilisation 0.1 7.3 7.4 Changes in estimate 0.8 0.8 Foreign exchange impact 0.1 0.1 31 December 2017 2.2 1.6 3.8 a Legal and Restructuring provisions for all years presented in the above table are included as current Provisions on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
b Decommissioning provisions represent the estimated costs of dismantling and removing PP&E, and restoring the site on which it was located when an item is acquired or as a consequence of using the item during a particular period other than to produce inventory.
Decommissioning provisions at 31 December 2017 and 2016 are included as non-current Provisions on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Legal Provisions At 31 December 2016, the Groups provision for unsettled lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations amounted to $0.1 million.
In accordance with the accounting guidance related to provisions, the Group records provisions for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the loss can be reasonably estimated.
These legal matters involve intellectual property, commercial or environmental health and safety matters.
For further details, please refer to Note 23 Commitments and Contingencies.
ConvaTec Group Plc 142 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 20.
Provisions continued Restructuring Provisions 2017 Initiatives In 2017, the Group incurred restructuring charges related to employee termination benefits for involuntary workforce reduction.
2016 Initiatives In 2016, the Group approved the plan for business restructuring activities, primarily related to severance benefits for involuntary workforce reductions associated with i the closure of the Groups Hospital Care HC manufacturing facility in Sungai-Petani Malaysia by the end of the third quarter of 2016 and manufacturing operations in Greensboro, US by early 2017 and ii the restructure of the Deeside, UK organisation to become a manufacturing facility designated as a technology and automation centre of excellence for advanced wound care.
The Group plans to expand its capabilities at the other ConvaTec facilities, including Deeside, UK, Haina, Dominican Republic, Michalovce, Slovakia, Rhymney, UK, and Herlev, Denmark to optimise its supply chain for the Advanced Wound, Ostomy, and CCC franchises.
2015 Initiatives In 2015, the Group approved the plan for business restructuring activities, primarily related to severance benefits for involuntary workforce reductions associated with the closure of the Groups HC manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico.
The Groups Infusion Devices franchise, which has a separate existing facility in Reynosa, Mexico, plans to expand and repurpose the HC plant to support its manufacturing operations and its customers.
2014 Initiatives In 2014, the Group incurred restructuring charges for business restructuring activities, primarily related to termination benefits for involuntary workforce reductions associated with closure of the Groups operational headquarters in Skillman, New Jersey and the termination of certain executive management team members.
All business activities performed at the facility in Skillman, New Jersey were transferred to other ConvaTec sites around the world.
Charges and changes in estimate recorded for the year ended 31 December 2017 related to the above initiatives were as follows: Employee termination a costs Total $m $m 2017 Initiatives 1.0 1.0 2016 Initiatives 0.8 0.8 Total 0.2 0.2 Classified in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss: Cost of goods sold 0.8 0.8 General and administrative expenses 1.0 1.0 Charges and changes in estimate recorded for the year ended 31 December 2016 related to the above initiatives were as follows: Employee Lease termination termination Asset Accelerated a a costs costs write-offs depreciation Total $m $m $m $m $m 2016 Initiatives 14.7 4.6 7.9 27.2 2015 Initiatives 0.2 0.8 1.1 2.1 2014 Initiatives 0.2 0.2 Total 14.7 0.8 4.6 9.0 29.1 Classified in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss: Cost of goods sold 14.7 0.8 4.6 9.0 29.1 a The movement in restructuring provisions during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 related to employee termination costs and lease terminations is outlined in the table above.
ConvaTec Group Plc 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Other Liabilities The major components of Other liabilities at 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Uncertain tax position 15.4 19.1 a Defined benefit obligation 13.5 13.1 Employee costs 4.0 3.5 Other 2.6 1.6 Other liabilities 35.5 37.3 a Refer to Note 25 Employee Benefits for further details.
Share Capital and Reserves Share capital The share capital recognised as equity comprised of ordinary shares issued and fully paid or credited as fully paid at 31 December 2017 and 2016 was as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Issued and fully paid or credited as fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each 238.8 238.8 Additionally, the Company issued 50,000 redeemable preference shares of 1.00 each classified as liabilities at 31 December 2016.
These shares did not carry any voting rights and had no rights to the payment of dividends.
The preference shares were redeemed in February 2017.
The movements in ordinary shares in issue was as follows: Issued and fully paid or credited as fully paid Ordinary shares number a 1 January 2016 1,261,343,801 b Issue of shares under share-based compensation plan 38,656,199 Ordinary shares prior to listing 1,300,000,000 c Shares issued upon IPO 651,472,651 31 December 2016 1,951,472,651 d Issue of new shares for the Scrip Scheme 377,948 31 December 2017 1,951,850,599 a Represents the ordinary shares in issue as a result of the 2016 reorganisation.
Refer to Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation for detailed information.
b Represents management shares converted into ordinary shares in the Company as a result of the 2016 reorganisation.
Approximately 8,623,885 of these shares were sold in the market at the time of the IPO in accordance with the management agreement concurrent with the reorganisation.
Refer to Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation and Note 24 Share-Based Payments for additional information.
c Represents the shares issued and fully paid upon IPO, excluding 8,623,885 shares in the Company discussed above.
d Refer to Note 11 Dividends for further details.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are uniform in all respects, they form a single class for all purposes, including with respect to voting and for all dividends and other distributions thereafter declared, made or paid on the ordinary share capital of the Group.
Share premium The share premium represents amounts received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares.
At 31 December 2016, the share premium represented amounts received in excess of the nominal value of shares issued upon IPO $1,713.7 million, net of the direct costs associated with issuing those shares $39.6 million.
$10.5 million of accrued share capital costs at 31 December 2016 were paid in 2017.
In February 2017, the Company carried out a capital reduction, converting share premium of $1,713.7 million to distributable reserves.
As part of this capital reduction, expenses of issue of equity shares which had been offset against the same share premium balance has also been taken to retained earnings.
The net impact of the capital reduction exercise has resulted in distributable earnings being increased by $1,674.1 million.
In October 2017, 377,948 shares were issued under the Scrip Scheme resulting in $1.3 million of share premium.
ConvaTec Group Plc 144 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 22.
Share Capital and Reserves continued Own Shares Own shares are ordinary shares in the Company purchased and held by an Employee Benefit Trust to fulfil the Companys obligations under the Groups share plans.
At 31 December 2017, 4,204,211 were held in an Employee Benefit Trust.
The market value of Own shares was $8.2 million at 31 December 2017.
Merger reserve In 2016, the Financial Statements were prepared under merger accounting principles.
Under these principles, no acquirer was required to be identified and all entities were included at their pre-combination carrying amounts.
This accounting treatment lead to differences on consolidation between share capital in issue and the book value of the underlying net assets acquired, this difference is included within equity as a merger reserve.
Cumulative translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
In 2016, the Group reclassified foreign exchange accumulated losses of $36.4 million from other comprehensive income to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as a result of restructuring of certain foreign subsidiaries as part of the IPO process.
Other reserves Other reserves in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity are comprised of the following: 1 January Change 31 December 2017 in year 2017 $m $m $m Issuance of shares under share-based compensation plans 67.5 67.5 Share-based payments 0.8 36.9 37.7 Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation 0.2 0.2 Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation, net of tax 4.6 2.4 2.2 Recognition of pension assets restriction 6.3 0.2 6.1 Share awards vested 1.5 1.5 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of tax 5.7 5.7 Other reserves 57.4 43.9 101.3 1 January Change 31 December 2016 in year 2016 $m $m $m Issuance of shares under share-based compensation plans 67.5 67.5 Share-based payments 0.8 0.8 Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation, net of tax 4.2 0.4 4.6 Recognition of pension assets restriction 6.3 6.3 Other reserves 4.2 61.6 57.4 23.
Commitments and Contingencies Operating Leases Future minimum rental commitments under all non-cancellable operating leases in effect at 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Within 1 year 20.2 18.9 After 1 and within 5 years 32.9 34.3 After 5 years 8.3 8.7 Total 61.4 61.9 Certain lease agreements, primarily for real estate, contain renewal options and rent escalation clauses.
Operating lease rental expense was $23.4 million and $22.9 million for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively.
ConvaTec Group Plc 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Commitments and Contingencies continued Other commitments The Group had commitments related to capital expenditures of approximately $12.9 million and $18.2 million at 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively, primarily related to manufacturing equipment for new products, capacity expansions and productivity primarily related to the Margin Improvement Programme implementation.
Legal Proceedings The nature of the Group business exposes it to a variety of product liability, regulatory and IP claims.
The Group makes appropriate provision for liabilities and disclosure of contingent liabilities in accordance with its accounting policies, using informed and unbiased management judgement based on the best available information at the time.
However, it is not always possible to predict outcomes and additional facts may come to light.
As a result, provision amounts and contingency disclosures are subject to revision over time.
In accordance with the accounting guidance related to contingencies, the Group records provisions for liabilities when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.
Legal costs related to litigation matters are expensed as incurred.
Corrections and Removals In January 2016, the Group initiated a recall of a range of nebuliser products in Europe, the US, Canada and China due to an increase in reports related to the products periodic inability to generate an atomised spray as intended.
Following an investigation, the Group determined that the issue was due to variability in a molding process during manufacturing, which was duly corrected.
This recall was closed globally in December 2016.
The Group completed final destruction of the affected devices that were returned in January 2017.
In May 2017, the Group initiated a global recall of a range of oxygen mask products due to reports related to the products failure to supply oxygen as intended.
Following an investigation, The Group determined that the issue was due to inconsistency in the solvent bonding process during manufacturing.
A permanent correction was put in place.
The Group completed destruction of the affected devices in November 2017 and the Group will be closing out this recall in the near future.
In 2017, the Group initiated two product recalls in Israel.
A recall of endotracheal tubes was initiated in Israel in June 2017 based on reports of mismatched product labels and product size: this recall was closed in September 2017.
A voluntary recall for one lot of incorrectly manufactured ostomy irrigation sleeves was initiated in October 2017 and was closed in January 2018.
In October 2017, the Group initiated a recall of a single lot of ostomy skin barriers in the US due to a labelling issue that impacted a small number of products in the affected lot.
The Group anticipates closing out this recall in the near future.
In September 2017, Medtronic Misnamed, Inc. Medtronic, issued a recall of certain infusion sets, including the Quick-Set and Silhouette infusion sets.
The Quick-Set and Silhouette infusion sets include P-Cap connectors designed by Medtronic and manufactured for Medtronic by the Group for use with Medtronic insulin infusion pumps in diabetes care.
Medtronic modified the design of P-Cap connectors, which we have integrated into the infusion set design.
Medtronic previously issued a recall of Quick-Set and Silhouette infusion sets in June 2013.
Medtronic issued this recall due to a potential safety issue that can occur if insulin or other fluids meet the inside of the tubing P-Cap connector.
The June 2013 recall has resulted in pending or threatened litigation against various of the Groups entities.
These lawsuits allege that the infusion sets are defective and have caused injuries or death to various plaintiffs.
All of these cases also include claims against Medtronic, and allegations that their insulin pumps which the Group does not make or sell are defective.
To the best of the Groups knowledge, as of this report date, approximately twenty-two product liability lawsuits had been filed.
The Groups entities have been voluntarily dismissed without prejudice from twelve of these lawsuits and dismissed with prejudice from two lawsuits that have been settled.
The Group has sent a demand to Medtronic seeking indemnification for these lawsuits consistent with the terms of the agreements between them.
To date, Medtronic has rejected this demand.
The Group also carries product liability insurance, subject to a selfinsured retention, and has notified the insurance carrier about these lawsuits.
The remaining pending lawsuits are all in their early stages.
At this point the Group is unable to predict the likelihood of an unfavourable outcome or estimate any potential loss.
ConvaTec Group Plc 146 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 24.
Share-Based Payments Prior to listing, the Group had granted share-based compensation to employees under the AEP, MEP, and MIP collectively, the Pre-IPO Share Plans.
On 25 October 2016, the Group established the following additional share-based compensation plans: LTIP, DBP and MSP collectively, the New Share Plans.
In addition, at the Companys Annual General Meeting held in May 2017, shareholders adopted the Employee Plans.
With the exception of the MEP plan, the Pre-IPO Share Plans were dissolved upon completion of the 2016 reorganisation of the Group.
The details on each scheme are given in the Annual Report on remuneration on pages 91 to 92.
The total share-based compensation expense recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss related to the outlined above share-based compensation plans in the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 was as follows: 2017 2016  settled Total settled settled Total $m $m $m $m $m $m AEP 28.9 28.9 a MEP 29.3 29.3 17.6 34.6 52.2 MIP 4.8 4.8 LTIP 6.1 6.1 0.8 0.8 DBP MSP 0.8 0.8 Employee Plans 0.7 0.7 36.9 36.9 18.4 68.3 86.7 a Prior to the IPO, the MEP units were accounted for as liabilities awards cash-settled as opposed to equity awards equity-settled due to their underlying terms.
The Groups 2016 reorganisation discussed in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies triggered a modification in the accounting for these awards, where the terms of awards MEP units were changed immediately prior to listing to vested equity shares.
Accordingly, while they are described as cash-settled in the table above under accounting rules, they were in fact settled through the issuance of equity shares at the IPO.
Annual equity plan AEP and Management incentive plan MIP The AEP and MIP allowed for the issuance of units to employees for shares of common stock.
The AEP and MIP units were granted at the allocable fair market value of a share of stock on the date of grant.
The units could only vested upon a liquidity event, such as an IPO where they would be settled in cash.
Upon completion of the IPO, the AEP and MIP units were settled in cash.
As a result, the Group recorded a charge of $33.7 million, in the aggregate, in the year ended 31 December 2016 in General and administrative expenses on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the redemption of these units.
Following is the activity during the year ended 31 December 2016: AEP Units MIP Units 000s 000s Outstanding at 1 January 2016 833 1,164 Granted 94 Forfeited cancelled 61 72 Settled for cash 866 1,092 Outstanding at 31 December 2016 Management executive plan MEP The MEP allowed for the issuance of units to employees for shares of common stock.
The MEP units were granted at the allocable fair market value of a share of stock on the date of grant and vested over five years or upon a liquidity event, such as an IPO.
The units could be settled in cash or through the issuance of common stock.
Prior to listing in 2016, MEP units were accounted as liability awards.
Upon completion of the 2016 reorganisation prior to 2016 listing, the MEP units were converted into shares, which are held by the Company 38,656,199.
The Groups 2016 reorganisation and IPO triggered the modification of the MEP units related to the i reclassification of an award from liability-classified award to equity-classified award and ii an acceleration of vesting.
Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2016, the Group reclassified the previously recorded liability prior to 2016 listing of $54.6 million to Other reserves and recognised additional compensation expense of $17.6 million equal to the excess of the modified awards fair value $72.2 million over the liability awards fair value prior to the modification $54.6 million.
The modification of the MEP units included a clawback provision whereby 60% of units previously held by the scheme which had not fully vested are subject to a two year lock-in arrangement.
These units are subject to continued employment over a two year period with proportional vesting.
The total unrecognised compensation expense related to the fair value of these units at 31 December 2017 amounted to $6.9 million, which will be expensed through 31 October 2018.
ConvaTec Group Plc 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24.
Share-Based Payments continued Management executive plan MEP continued MEP activity during the year ended 31 December 2016 was as follows: MEP Units 000s Outstanding at 1 January 2016 751 Granted 70 Forfeited cancelled 9 Repurchased 10 Settled in equity upon modification 802 Outstanding at 31 December 2016 Long-term incentive plan LTIP The LTIP provides for grants of awards over shares to Executive Directors and employees of the Group in the form of performance share awards, restricted share awards, options, forfeitable shares, and cash settled phantom awards, and are subject to the lock-up and clawback provisions.
The Remuneration Committee will determine i the appropriate level of LTIP award for participants and ii the form of the award and its performance and other conditions.
The LTIP awards vest in the ordinary course on the latest of: i the vesting date or dates specified by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant which will ordinarily be no less than three years from the date of grant, ii in respect of an LTIP award subject to performance conditions, the date or dates on which the Remuneration Committee determines the extent to which the specified performance conditions have been satisfied, and iii any other date determined by the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant.
Any part of an LTIP award which does not vest in accordance with its terms and, if relevant the performance conditions, will immediately lapse.
2016 LTIP Awards On 11 November 2016, the Group granted one-off awards to the Executive Directors, the senior managers and certain senior employees under the LTIP the Transition Awards.
The Transition Awards granted were a combination of options over shares and conditional awards over shares, both of which vest as to one-third subject only to continued employment on the first, second, and third anniversary.
The Transition Awards are not subject to performance conditions.
A summary of the movements in the share options and share awards granted under the 2016 LTIP is as follows: Share Share in 000s, except as indicated options awards Outstanding at 1 January 2016 Granted 3,120 2,069 Forfeited Exercised Expired Outstanding at 31 December 2016 3,120 2,069 Granted Forfeited 537 359 Exercised 491 Expired Outstanding at 31 December 2017 2,583 1,219 Exercisable at 31 December 2017 652 Exercisable at 31 December 2016 Weighted average exercise price per share 2.49 Fair value of awards granted per share 0.34 2.44 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 3.9 ConvaTec Group Plc 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 24.
Share-Based Payments continued Long-term incentive plan LTIP continued The fair value of share options granted was calculated using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions: a Weighted time to vesting as of the grant date 2 years Contractual term 5 years a Expected life 3.5 years b Risk-free interest rate 0.4% Share price at date of grant 2.44 c Expected volatility 23.5% d Dividend yield 1.7% a Weighted time to vest based on contractual vesting schedule: expected life as the midpoint between the time to vest and the time to expiration.
b Determined based on the GPB UK Sovereign Curve Yields commensurate with the expected life.
c Determined based on the median asset volatility of the comparable companies adjusted for the Groups leverage.
d The future expected dividend payments are discounted at cost of equity.
The cumulative sum is divided by the valuation date market cap to estimate a dividend yield assumption over the term of the award.
The total unrecognised compensation expense related to the fair value of awards granted under the 2016 LTIP at 31 December 2017 amounted to $2.0 million, which will be expensed over a weighted average period of 0.8 years.
2017 LTIP Awards In 2017, the Group granted the following: i conditional awards over shares the PSP, ii cash-settled phantom awards, and iii restricted stock units RSU to the Executive Directors.
The PSP and cash-settled phantom awards will vest after three years, subject to the following performance measures and targets: Threshold Maximum Measures Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting th 3-year relative Total Shareholder Return TSR 50% Median 90 percentile 3-year cumulative earnings per share EPS 50% 62 69 RSUs are only subject to continued employment.
A summary of the movements in PSP, cash-settled phantom awards, and RSUs granted is as follows: Cash-settled phantom in 000s, except as indicated PSP awards RSU Outstanding at 1 January 2017 Granted 5,008 3 310 Forfeited 847 Vested 6 76 Expired Outstanding at 31 December 2017 4,155 3 234 Exercisable at 31 December 2017 6 Weighted-average grant date fair value per share 2.55 2.51 2.97 The total unrecognised compensation expense related to the fair value of the awards granted under the 2017 LTIP at 31 December 2017 amounted to i $4.3 million related to PSP and cash-settled phantom awards, which will be expensed over a weighted average period of 1.1 years and ii $0.7 million related to RSU, which will be expensed over a weighted average period of 0.9 years.
Deferred bonus plan DBP The DBP provides for grants of awards or nil-cost options over shares and also cash-settled phantom awards collectively, the DBP Awards to Executive Directors and other employees of the Group with a market value at the date of grant equal to the participants proportional annual cash bonus that he or she may be required to defer by the Remuneration Committee from time to time.
The Remuneration Committee will determine i the appropriate level of the DBP Awards for participants, ii the form, amount and other terms and conditions of the DBP Awards, and iii the persons to whom the DBP Awards will be granted.
The DBP Awards will not be subject to performance conditions but will normally vest subject to continued employment only.
The DBP Awards will vest in the ordinary course on the latest of: i the vesting date or dates specified by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant which will ordinarily be no less than three years from the date of grant and ii any other date determined by the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant.
Any part of a DBP Award which does not vest in accordance with its terms and will immediately lapse.
At 31 December 2017, no DBP Awards were granted.
ConvaTec Group Plc 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 24.
Share-Based Payments continued Matching share plan MSP The MSP provides for grants of awards over shares in the form of restricted share awards, options, forfeitable shares, and also cash-settled phantom awards collectively, the MSP Awards to employees of the Group, other than Executive Directors with a market value at the date of grant equal to the participants proportional annual cash bonus as may be determined by the Remuneration Committee from time to time.
The Remuneration Committee may determine i the form, amount and other terms and conditions of the MSP Awards and ii the persons to whom the MSP Awards will be granted.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the appropriate level of the MSP Awards for participants.
The MSP Awards will not be subject to performance conditions but will normally vest subject to continued employment only.
The MSP Awards will vest in the ordinary course on the latest of: i the vesting date or dates specified by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant which will ordinarily be no less than three years from the date of grant and ii any other date determined by the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant.
Any part of an MSP Award which does not vest in accordance with its terms and, if relevant the performance conditions, will immediately lapse.
In 2017, the Group granted conditional awards over shares the Shares under the MSP.
A summary of the movements in the Shares granted under the MSP is as follows: Shares 000s Outstanding at 1 January 2017 Granted 1,054 Forfeited 76 Vested Expired a Outstanding at 31 December 2017 978 Exercisable at 31 December 2017 a Includes 40,253 of cash-settled phantom awards.
The fair value of the Shares granted under the MSP in 2017 was 2.51 per share.
The total unrecognised compensation expense related to the fair value of the Shares granted under the MSP at 31 December 2017 amounted to $2.4 million, which will be expensed over a weighted average period of 1.2 years.
Employee Plans In May 2017, the Groups shareholders approved the Employee Plans, which provides eligible employees with the opportunity to acquire shares through accumulated contributions.
The Employee Plans are available to employees under the following schemes: i Save-As-You-Earn SAYE is available to all employees in the UK employed by participating Group companies, ii Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP is available to all employees in the US, and iii International Share Save plan is available to all employees in the rest of world.
The Employee Plans enable employees to save up to 500 per month or local currency equivalent at any given time and give them an option to acquire shares based on the committed amount to be saved.
The option price is set at a discount of 15% of the market value of the shares at grant.
The vesting period is three years for SAYE and International Share Save schemes and 27 months for ESPP scheme.
A summary of the movements in options granted under the Employee Plans is as follows: Range of option Weighted exercise average Share options prices exercise price 000s per share per share Outstanding at 1 January 2017 Granted 5,557 2.78 2.78 Forfeited cancelled 326 Vested Expired Outstanding at 31 December 2017 5,231 2.78 2.78 Exercisable at 31 December 2017 ConvaTec Group Plc 150 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 24.
Share-Based Payments continued Employee Plans continued Options granted under Employees Plans are valued using the Black-Scholes model as management considers that options granted under these schemes are exercised within a short time after the vesting date.
The following assumptions were used in calculating the fair value of options granted in 2017: International SAYE ESPP Share Save Option price per share 2.78 2.78 2.78 Expected life 3.3 years 2.3 years 3.3 years a Risk free interest rate 0.5% 0.4% 0.5% b Expected volatility 22.6% 23.1% 22.6% c Dividend yield 1.4% 1.4% 1.4% a Determined based on the UK Government debt interest rates commensurate with the expected life.
b Determined based on the historical equity volatility over a look-back period commensurate with the remaining expected life.
c Determined based on the Groups dividend projections.
The total unrecognised compensation expense related to the fair value of awards granted under the Employee Plans at 31 December 2017 amounted to $3.1 million, which will be expensed over a weighted average period of 1.3 years.
Employee Benefits Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a wide range of retirement benefit arrangements, which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
These include funded defined contribution and funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes.
Defined contribution arrangements The Group operates several defined contribution arrangements where the employer contribution and the resulting charge to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss is fixed at a set level or is a set percentage of employees pay.
Contributions made to defined contribution schemes and charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss totalled $14.7 million and $14.6 million for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Defined benefit arrangements The Group operates several defined benefit schemes covering certain international employees where the benefits are based on employees length of service.
Whilst the Groups primary schemes are funded and partially funded schemes in the UK and Switzerland, respectively, it also operates other significant unfunded benefit schemes in Germany, Austria and France referred to as Other in the tables below.
The UK scheme is closed to new participants and closed to future benefit accruals.
The Switzerland scheme is still being funded and under the Switzerland pension plan, the estimated contributions to be paid within the next year are $0.5 million.
In funded arrangements, the assets of defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds or similar structures in the countries concerned.
The asset surplus within the UK plan of $6.4 million and $6.3 million for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively, have been restricted in accordance with IFRIC Interpretation 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction and have been recorded within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Loss.
The schemes typically expose the Company to actuarial risks such as: Investment risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference to high quality corporate bond yields: if the return on plan asset is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit.
Currently the plan invests primarily in debt instruments.
Due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities, the trustees of the pension fund consider it appropriate that a reasonable portion of the plan assets should be invested in debt instruments to leverage the return generated by the fund.
Interest risk A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability but this will be partially offset by an increase in the return on the plans debt investments.
Longevity risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment.
An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plans liability.
Salary risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan participants.
As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plans liability.
ConvaTec Group Plc 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Employee Benefits continued Defined benefit arrangements continued Actuarial Assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions for each defined benefit arrangement used at 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: UK Switzerland Other 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Discount rate 2.40% 2.80% 0.80% 0.50% 1.20% to 2.00% 1.50% to 2.25% Rate of price inflation 2.30% 2.40% 0.50% 0.50% 1.70% to 2.00% 1.70% to 2.00% Future salary increases N A N A 1.75% 1.75% 2.00% to 3.00% 2.00% to 3.00% Actuarial assumptions regarding future mortality are based on mortality tables.
The current longevities underlying the values of the obligations in the defined benefit plans are as follows: UK Switzerland Other 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Life expectancy at Plan retirement age Males 23.2 years 23.6 years 22.4 years 22.3 years 20.0 years 19.9 years Females 24.2 years 24.8 years 25.4 years 25.3 years 23.8 years 23.7 years Life expectancy at Plan retirement age in 20 years time Male 24.6 years 25.4 years 24.3 years 24.2 years 21.8 years 21.8 years Female 25.8 years 26.7 years 27.2 years 27.1 years 25.5 years 25.4 years Net Pension Liabilities The amount recognised for each defined benefit arrangement in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2017 and 2016 was as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Fair value of schemes assets 18.6 18.2 5.9 4.8 24.5 23.0 Present value of funded schemes liabilities 12.2 11.9 9.0 8.9 21.2 20.8 Surplus deficit in the funded schemes 6.4 6.3 3.1 4.1 3.3 2.2 Present value of unfunded schemes liabilities 10.4 9.0 10.4 9.0 Restrict recognition of asset 6.4 6.3 6.4 6.3 Net pension assets liability 3.1 4.1 10.4 9.0 13.5 13.1 Plan Assets Plan assets for each defined benefit arrangement, all of which are quoted, consist of the following at 31 December 2017 and 2016: UK Switzerland Other Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Equity instruments 1.6 1.3 1.6 1.3 Debt instruments 18.6 18.2 2.5 2.0 21.1 20.2 Property 0.6 0.5 0.6 0.5 Other 1.2 1.0 1.2 1.0 Plan assets 18.6 18.2 5.9 4.8 24.5 23.0 ConvaTec Group Plc 152 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 25.
Employee Benefits continued Defined benefit arrangements continued The movements in the fair value of plan assets during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 18.2 20.2 4.8 4.5 23.0 24.7 Expected return on assets 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.1 1.1 0.7 Remeasurement loss gain 0.2 3.1 0.2 3.1 Contributions paid by employer 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Contributions paid by members 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Actual benefit payments 1.7 2.4 0.5 0.4 2.2 2.8 Risk insurance premium 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 Currency translation adjustment 1.8 3.3 0.2 0.3 2.0 3.6 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 18.6 18.2 5.9 4.8 24.5 23.0 Benefit Obligations The movements in the defined benefit obligation during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 11.9 14.3 8.9 7.7 9.0 7.7 29.8 29.7 Current service cost 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 1.7 1.7 Past service cost Interest cost 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.7 Contributions by members 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Remeasurement loss gain 0.5 1.6 0.6 0.3 0.4 1.0 0.5 2.9 Actual benefit payments 1.7 2.4 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.1 2.3 2.9 Experience loss gain 0.1 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.8 0.2 Risk insurance premium 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 Currency translation adjustment 1.1 2.3 0.5 0.3 1.3 0.3 2.9 2.9 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 12.2 11.9 9.0 8.9 10.4 9.0 31.6 29.8 The history of experience adjustments related to the defined benefit obligation were as follows: UK Switzerland Other Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Defined benefit obligation at end of year 12.2 11.9 9.0 8.9 10.4 9.0 31.6 29.8 Experience adjustment on schemes liabilities 0.1 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.8 0.2 Experience adjustment as a percentage of schemes liabilities 0.8% 2.5% 5.6 % 2.2% 3.8 % 3.3 % 2.5 % 0.7% Plan Expenses The aggregate expense for all defined benefit plans recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 was as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Current service cost 1.7 1.7 Past service cost Expected return on assets 0.3 0.7 Net interest on schemes liabilities 0.5 0.7 Total expense 1.9 1.7 ConvaTec Group Plc 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Employee Benefits continued Defined benefit arrangements continued The plan expense of $1.9 million and $1.7 million for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively, was included in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as Cost of goods sold $0.3 million and $0.2 million, respectively, Selling and distribution expenses $1.0 million and $0.9 million, respectively, and Research and development expenses $0.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively.
Other Comprehensive Income Loss Aggregate actuarial gains and losses for all defined benefit plans recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Loss for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Remeasurement effects recognised in Other comprehensive income: Actuarial gain loss on liability due to experience 0.8 0.2 Other remeasurement gain loss on liability 0.5 2.9 Actuarial loss gain on asset 0.1 3.1 Total remeasurement gain recognised in Other comprehensive income 1.2 Deferred tax on remeasurement loss recognised in Other comprehensive income 1.6 0.3 Recognition of the pension assets restriction 0.2 6.3 Currency translation adjustment 0.4 0.1 Cumulative loss recognised in Other comprehensive income at the beginning of the year 10.8 4.1 Cumulative loss at the end of the year 8.2 10.8 Sensitivity Analysis The effect of an increase or decrease in key actuarial assumptions on the defined benefit obligations related to the UK and Switzerland plans at 31 December 2017 is as follows: 2017 $m Increase Decrease 0.5% 0.5% UK Plan Discount rate 0.9 0.9 Inflation 0.7 0.7 Mortality measured at - 1 year 0.5 0.5 2017 $m Increase Decrease 0.25% 0.25% Switzerland Plan Discount rate 0.4 0.5 Inflation 0.2 0.2 Mortality measured at - 1 year 0.1 0.2 26.
Financial Instruments Policy The Groups treasury policies seek to minimise financial risks and to ensure sufficient liquidity for the Groups operations and strategic plans.
No complex derivative financial instruments are used, and no trading or speculative transactions in financial instruments are undertaken.
Where the Group does use financial instruments these are mainly to manage the currency risks arising from normal operations and its financing.
Operations are financed mainly through retained profits and, in certain geographic locations, bank borrowings.
The Groups policies have remained unchanged since the beginning of the year.
Detail of the significant policies and methods adopted for each class of financial asset and financial liability are disclosed in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies.
ConvaTec Group Plc 154 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 26.
Financial Instruments continued Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in Note 19 Borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and equity of the Group, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Financial risk management objectives Based on the operations of the Group throughout the world, the Directors consider that the key financial risks that it faces are liquidity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, and credit risk.
The objectives under each of these risks are as follows: Liquidity risk: ensure adequate funding to support working capital and future capital expenditure requirements.
Currency risk: reduce exposure to foreign exchange movements principally between euro, USD and the British Pound sterling GBP.
Interest rate risk: mitigate risk of significant change in market rates on the cash flow of issued variable rate debt.
Credit risk: minimise the risk of default and concentration discussed in Note 18 Trade and Other Receivables and in Note 3 Significant Accounting Policies Trade and Other Receivables.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring actual and projected cash outflows to ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The tables below analyse the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2017 and 2016 by contractual maturity date, including interest payments: Contractual cash flows Within 1 year More than Carrying or on demand 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total amount $m $m $m $m $m $m 31 December 2017 Borrowings 77.4 110.7 1,223.3 404.1 1,815.5 1,797.3 Finance lease obligations 2.7 2.8 8.7 27.1 41.3 25.6 Trade and other payables 122.0 122.0 122.0 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 41.7 41.7 41.7 31 December 2016 Borrowings 37.9 71.5 1,256.3 408.5 1,774.2 1,752.6 Finance lease obligations 2.2 2.3 7.7 26.2 38.4 23.0 Trade and other payables 111.6 111.6 111.6 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 60.1 60.1 60.1 The contractual maturities of borrowings excluding finance lease obligations, inclusive of interest payments at 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Contractual cash flows Within 1 year More than or on demand 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total a Borrowings, including interest $m $m $m $m $m 31 December 2017 135.4 165.8 1,332.9 417.5 2,051.6 31 December 2016 96.7 121.2 1,383.2 433.1 2,034.2 a Assumes repayment of the principal amount of debt obligations at maturity.
Additionally, if the Group was fully drawn against the $200.0 million Revolving Credit Facility, the cash interest payments would have increased by approximately $7.4 million and $6.0 million for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively.
ConvaTec Group Plc 155 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
Financial Instruments continued Currency risk The Group manufactures and sells its products in various countries around the world and as a result of the global nature of the operations, it is exposed to market risk arising from changes in currency exchange rates: however the Group foreign currency risk is diversified.
The Groups primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, GBP, and Danish Krone DKK.
Where possible, the Group manages foreign currency risk by managing same currency revenues to same currency expenses and strategically denominating its debt in certain functional currencies in order to match with the projected functional currency exposures within its operations and thereby minimising foreign currency risk.
As a result, the impact of the fluctuations in the market values of assets and liabilities and the settlement of foreign currency transactions are reduced.
Significant increases in the value of the USD relative to foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations.
Assets and liabilities are converted based on the exchange rate on the statement of financial position date, and statement of profit or loss items are converted based on the average exchange rate during the period.
Transactions that are to be settled in a currency that is not the functional currency of the transacting entity are recorded to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss at each remeasurement date or settlement date.
Additionally, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not USD are translated into USD at the exchange rate at each statement of financial position date.
Any cumulative translation difference is recorded within equity.
The following exchange rates for the major currencies have been applied at 31 December 2017 and 2016: Average rate Currency Closing rate 2017 2016 EUR USD Average 1.13 1.11 Closing 1.20 1.05 GBP USD Average 1.29 1.36 Closing 1.35 1.23 DKK USD Average 0.15 0.15 Closing 0.16 0.14 Sensitivity analysis on currency risk The most significant exposure to foreign currency risk relates to certain borrowings.
A reasonably possible 10% fluctuation of the USD against the EUR applied to borrowings from third parties existing at 31 December 2017 would have affected equity by the amounts shown below.
This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the reporting date and had been applied to borrowings from third parties existing at that date.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any tax impact.
Equity $m 10% strengthening of USD compared to EUR 63.9 10% weakening of USD compared to EUR 63.9 Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to interest rate cash flow risk.
Currency and Nature of Interest Rate of the Nominal Value of Borrowings The currency and rate structure of the Groups long-term borrowings at 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 $m % $m % Currency structure USD 1,176.8 64 1,200.4 67 EUR 664.4 36 596.8 33 Total 1,841.2 100 1,797.2 100 Rate structure Fixed 25.6 1 23.0 1 Floating 1,815.6 99 1,774.2 99 Total 1,841.2 100 1,797.2 100 Sensitivity analysis on interest rate risk The loans under the Groups Credit Facilities bear interest at floating rates of interest per annum equal to LIBOR and or EURIBOR, or ABR, as adjusted periodically, plus a spread.
A plus or minus change of 1% in the interest rates in effect on 31 December 2017 and 2016, would have a negative or positive impact on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and on equity of $18.2 million and $17.7 million, respectively, assuming that all other variables remain constant and ignoring any tax effect.
The Group manage the risk centrally, by maintaining the appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, using interest rate swaps.
ConvaTec Group Plc 156 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 26.
Financial Instruments continued Interest rate swap contracts As noted above, the Group has variable rate debt instruments and is exposed to market risks resulting from interest rate fluctuations.
In order to manage its exposure to variability in expected future cash outflows attributable to the changes in LIBOR rates on the US Dollar Term A and B Loan Facility, in May 2017, the Group entered into interest rate swap agreements.
The Group interest rate swaps do not contain credit-risk related contingent features and are not subject to master netting arrangements.
The interest rate swaps are designated as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedging relationship.
As such, changes in the fair value will be recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the other reserve, with the fair value of the interest rate derivatives recorded in the statement of financial position.
The following table presents the Groups outstanding interest rate swaps agreements, notional amounts and related fair values at 31 December 2017.
The fair values are based on market values of equivalent instruments at 31 December 2017.
These financial instruments are classified as level 2 based upon the degree to which the fair value movements are observable.
Level 2 fair value measurements are defined as those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly prices from third parties or indirectly derived from third party prices.
Notional c amount at Fair value 31 December assets 2017 liabilities Effective date Maturity date $m $m a 3-month LIBOR Float to Fixed Interest Rate Swap 30 June 2017 30 June 2020 585.0 5.0 b 3-month LIBOR Float to Fixed Interest Rate Swap 30 June 2017 30 June 2020 297.0 2.4 Amounts recognised in Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Amounts recognised in Consolidated Comprehensive Income 7.4 a Under the interest rate swap agreement, commencing on 29 September 2017, the Group is entitled to receive quarterly interest payments at a variable rate equal to the 3-month LIBOR, subject to an interest rate floor of 0% and is required to make quarterly interest payments at a fixed rate of 1.709%.
In addition, for hedging purposes, the notional amount is split into six equal tranches.
b Under the interest rate swap agreement, commencing on 29 September 2017, the Group is entitled to receive quarterly interest payments at a variable rate equal to the 3-month LIBOR, subject to an interest rate floor of 0.75% and is required to make quarterly interest payments at a fixed rate of 1.749%.
In addition, for hedging purposes, the notional amount is split into three equal tranches.
c The fair values of the interest rate swaps are included in non-current Other assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss includes the negligible ineffective impact of the interest rate swaps.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The carrying amounts reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at 31 December 2017 and 2016 for cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, restricted cash, trade and other payable, and certain accrued expenses and other current liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities.
There are no other assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring or non-recurring basis.
Liabilities not Measured at Fair Value The borrowings are initially carried at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs and subsequently at amortised cost.
At 31 December 2017 and 2016, the estimated fair value of the Groups borrowings, excluding finance leases approximated $1,819.5 million and $1,775.2 million, in the aggregate, respectively.
The fair values were estimated using the quoted market prices and current interest rates offered for similar debt issuances.
Borrowings are categorised as Level 2 measurement in the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements.
See Note 19 Borrowings for the face and the carrying values of the Groups borrowings.
Related Party Transactions Prior to listing, the Group maintained an agreement with its equity sponsors the Management Agreement, whereby the equity sponsors provided certain management advisory services.
For services rendered by the equity sponsors, an annual fee of $3.0 million was payable in equal quarterly instalments.
The Group also paid other specified fees, in accordance with the Management Agreement.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group incurred $2.5 million $1.8 million-Nordic Capital and $0.7 millionAvista Capital Partners in contractual fees to the equity sponsors for services rendered in accordance with the Management Agreement.
Upon completion of the IPO in 2016, the Management Agreement was terminated.
The Groups revenue included $8.6 million and $7.4 million for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively, of revenue to a related party customers affiliated with Nordic Capital, shareholder and former equity sponsor.
The accompanying Consolidated Statement of Financial Position includes a receivable from the Groups related party revenue recorded in Trade and other receivables in the amount of $2.1 million and $1.2 million at 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively.
In addition, during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, the Group purchased inventory product totalling $6.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively, from a related party vendors affiliated with Nordic Capital, shareholder and former equity sponsor.
The accompanying Consolidated Statement of Financial Position includes a payable related to the Groups related party purchases recorded in Trade and other payables in the amount of $0.1 million at 31 December 2017.
At 31 December 2016, such related party purchases were fully paid.
ConvaTec Group Plc 157 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 27.
Related Party Transactions continued Key management personnel compensation Key management personnel are those persons who have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
The definition of key management personnel includes Directors both Executive and Non-Executive and other executives from the management team with significant authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the entitys activities.
Key management personnel compensation for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 comprised the following: a 2017 2016 $m $m Short-term employee benefits 9.7 8.7 Share-based expense 26.2 38.2 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.7 Termination benefits 2.6 Total 39.0 47.6 a The 2016 comparative has been restated to be on a consistent basis with the 2017 presentation.
The above table does not include an outstanding loan of $0.2 million and $0.3 million at 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively, to the Groups CEO.
The amounts of share-based compensation to the key management personnel disclosed in the table above are based on the expense recognised under IFRS 2.
Further details of short-term employee benefits, share-based expense, postemployment benefits and termination benefits for the Executive Directors are shown in the remuneration report on page 80.
Subsequent Events The Group has evaluated subsequent events through 14 February 2018, the date the Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors.
On 13 February 2018, the Board proposed the final dividend in respect of 2017 subject to shareholder approval at our Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2018, to be distributed on 17 May 2018.
Refer to Note 11 Dividends for further details.
ConvaTec Group Plc 158 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
