Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual the prevention and detection of fraud and other Report and the financial statements in accordance with irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for applicable law and regulations.
ensuring that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Company law requires the Directors to prepare information necessary for shareholders to assess the financial statements for each financial year.
Under that Groups performance, business model and strategy.
law the Directors are required to prepare the Group Website Publication financial statements, and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements, in accordance with IFRS The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Annual as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the Report and the financial statements are made available Directors must not approve the financial statements on a website.
Financial statements are published on unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair the Companys website in accordance with legislation view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination and of the profit or loss for the Group for that period.
of financial statements, which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of In preparing these financial statements, the Directors the Companys website is the responsibility of the are required to: Directors.
The Directors responsibilities also extend to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements select suitable accounting policies and then apply contained therein.
them consistently: Directors Responsibilities Pursuant to DTR4 make judgements and accounting estimates that The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge are reasonable and prudent: that: state whether they have been prepared in the Group financial statements have been accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by subject to any material departures disclosed and the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and explained in the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Group: prepare the financial statements on the going and concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business: and the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business prepare a Directors Report, a Strategic Report and the financial position of the Group and the and Directors Remuneration Report which comply parent company, together with a description of with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate On behalf of the Board accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Tim Ingram Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Chairman responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for 25 February 2018 30
