OTHER INFORMATION ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Their use is driven by characteristics particularly visible in the mining sector: Introduction When assessing and discussing the Groups reported financial performance, 1.
Earnings volatility: The Group mines and markets commodities and financial position and cash flows, management makes reference to precious metals and minerals.
The sector is characterised by significant Alternative Performance Measures APMs of historical or future financial volatility in earnings driven by movements in macroeconomic factors, performance, financial position or cash flows that are not defined or specified primarily price and foreign exchange.
This volatility is outside the control of under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
management and can mask underlying changes in performance.
As such, when comparing year-on-year performance, management excludes The APMs used by the Group fall into two categories: certain items such as those classed as special items to aid comparability Financial APMs: These financial measures are usually derived from the and then quantifies and isolates uncontrollable factors in order to improve financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Certain financial understanding of the controllable portion of variances.
measures cannot be directly derived from the financial statements as they 2.
Nature of investment: Investments in the sector typically occur over contain additional information, such as financial information from earlier several years and are large, requiring significant funding before generating periods or profit estimates or projections.
The accounting policies applied cash.
These investments are often made with partners and the nature of when calculating APMs are, where relevant and unless otherwise stated, the Groups ownership interest affects how the financial results of these the same as those disclosed in the Groups Consolidated financial operations are reflected in the Groups results e. g. whether full statements for the year ended 31 December 2017. consolidation subsidiaries, consolidation of the Groups attributable Non-financial APMs: These measures incorporate certain non-financial assets and liabilities joint operations or equity accounted associates and information that management believes is useful when assessing the joint ventures.
Attributable metrics are therefore presented to help performance of the Group.
demonstrate the financial performance and returns available to the Group, APMs are not uniformly defined by all companies, including those in the for investment and financing activities, excluding the effect of different Groups industry.
Accordingly, the APMs used by the Group may not be accounting treatments for different ownership interests.
comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures made by other 3.
Portfolio complexity: The Group operates in a number of different, but companies.
complementary commodities, precious metals and minerals.
The cost, APMs should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or as value of and return from each saleable unit e. g. tonne, pound, carat, superior to, measures of financial performance, financial position or cash ounce can differ materially between each business.
This makes flows reported in accordance with IFRS.
understanding both the overall portfolio performance, and the relative performance of its constituent parts on a like-for-like basis, more Purpose challenging.
The Group therefore uses composite APMs to provide The Group uses APMs to improve the comparability of information between aconsistent metric to assess performance at the portfolio level.
reporting periods and business units, either by adjusting for uncontrollable Consequently, APMs are used by the Board and management for planning factors or special items which impact upon IFRS measures or, by aggregating and reporting.
A subset is also used by managementin setting director and measures, to aid the user of the Annual Report in understanding the activity management remuneration.
The measures are also used in discussions with taking place across the Groups portfolio.
the investment analyst community and creditrating agencies.
Financial APMs Closest equivalent Group APM IFRS measure Adjustments to reconcile to primary statements Rationale for adjustments Income statement Group revenue Revenue Revenue from associates and joint ventures Exclude the effect of different basis of consolidation to aid comparability Underlying Profit loss before Operating and non-operating special items Exclude the impact of certain items due to their size and nature EBIT net finance income and remeasurements to aid comparability costs and tax Underlying EBIT from associates and joint Exclude the effect of different basis of consolidation to aid ventures comparability Underlying Profit loss before Operating and non-operating special items Exclude the impact of certain items due to their size and nature EBITDA net finance income and remeasurements to aid comparability costs and tax Depreciation and amortisation Exclude the effect of different basis of consolidation to aid Underlying EBITDA from associates and joint comparability ventures Underlying Profit loss for the Special items and remeasurements Exclude the impact of certain items due to their size and nature earnings financial year to aid comparability attributable to equity shareholders of the Company Underlying Income tax expense Tax related to special items and Exclude the impact of certain items due to their size and nature effective tax remeasurements to aid comparability rate The Groups share of associates and joint Exclude the effect of different basis of consolidation to ventures profit before tax, before special aid comparability items and remeasurements, and tax expense, before special items and remeasurements Underlying Earnings per share Special items and remeasurements Exclude the impact of certain items due to their size and nature earnings to aid comparability pershare Balance sheet Net debt Borrowings less cash Debit valuation adjustment Exclude the impact of accounting adjustments from the net andrelated hedges debt obligation of the Group Attributable No direct equivalent Non-controlling interests share of capital Exclude the effect of different basis of consolidation to ROCE employed and underlying EBIT aid comparability Average of opening and closing attributable capital employed 194 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Other information OTHER INFORMATION ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Closest equivalent Group APM IFRS measure Adjustments to reconcile to primary statements Rationale for adjustments Cash flow Capital Expenditure on Cash flows from derivatives related to capital To reflect the net attributable cost of capital expenditure taking expenditure property, plant and expenditure into account economic hedges capex equipment Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment Direct funding for capital expenditure from non-controlling interests Attributable Cash flows from Capital expenditure To measure the amount of cash available to finance returns to free cash flow operations Cash tax paid shareholders or growth after servicing debt, providing a return Dividends from associates, joint ventures to minority shareholders and meeting existing capex and financial asset investments commitments Net interest paid Dividends to non-controlling interests Group revenue Underlying effective tax rate Group revenue includes the Groups attributable share of associates and The underlying effective tax rate equates to the income tax expense, 1 joint ventures revenue.
before special items and remeasurements and including the Groups share of associates and joint ventures tax before special items and A reconciliation to Revenue, the closest equivalent IFRS measure to Group 1 remeasurements, divided by profit before tax before special items and revenue, is provided within note 2 to the Consolidated financial statements.
1 remeasurements and including the Groups share of associates and joint Underlying EBIT 1 ventures profit before tax before special items and remeasurements.
Underlying EBIT is Operating profit loss presented before special items A reconciliation to Income tax expense, the closest equivalent IFRS measure 1 and remeasurements and includes the Groups attributable share of to underlying effective tax rate, is provided within note 5 to the Consolidated associates and joint ventures underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT of financial statements.
associates and joint ventures is the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures revenue less operating costs before special items and Underlying earnings per share 1 remeasurements of associates and joint ventures.
Basic and diluted underlying earnings per share are calculated as underlying earnings divided by the basic or diluted shares in issue.
The calculation of A reconciliation to Profit loss before net finance income costs and tax, underlying earnings per share is disclosed within note 3 to the Consolidated the closest equivalent IFRS measure to underlying EBIT, is provided within financial statements.
Net debt Underlying EBITDA Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents Underlying EBITDA is underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation including derivatives which provide an economic hedge of net debt, see and includes the Groups attributable share ofassociates and joint ventures note22, before taking into account the effect of debit valuation adjustments underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation.
Areconciliation to the Consolidated balance sheet is A reconciliation to Profit loss before net finance income costs and tax, provided within note 20 to the Consolidated financial statements.
the closest equivalent IFRS measure to underlying EBITDA, is provided Capital expenditure capex within note2 to the Consolidated financial statements.
Capital expenditure is defined as cash expenditure on property, plant and Underlying earnings equipment, including related derivatives, and is presented net of proceeds from Underlying earnings is Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity disposal of property, plant and equipment and includes direct funding for capital 1 shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements expenditure from non-controlling interests in order to match more closely the and is therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax expense and way in which it is managed.
A reconciliation to Expenditure on property, plant non-controlling interests.
and equipment, the closest equivalent IFRS measure to capital expenditure, isprovided within note 12 to the Consolidated financial statements.
A reconciliation to Profit loss for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company, the closest equivalent IFRS measure to Operating cash flows generated by operations that have not yet reached underlying earnings, is provided within note 2 to the Consolidated financial commercial production are also included in capital expenditure.
capital expenditure is also periodically shown on an underlying basis i. e. before inclusion of capitalised operating cash flows.
Where this occurs, the measure is footnoted as such.
1 Special items and remeasurements are defined in note 8 to the Consolidated financial statements.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 195 OTHER INFORMATION ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Attributable return on capital employed ROCE Attributable ROCE is also used as an incentive measure in executives ROCE is a ratio that measures the efficiency and profitability of a companys remuneration and is predicated upon the achievement of ROCE targets in the capital investments.
Attributable ROCE displays how effectively assets are final year of a three-year performance period.
It is one of the performance generating profit on invested capital for the equity shareholders of the measures used in LTIP 16 and LTIP 17 and is proposed to be used in LTIP 18.
It is calculated as attributable underlying EBIT divided by average A reconciliation to Profit loss before net finance income costs and tax, attributable capital employed.
the closest equivalent IFRS measure to underlying EBIT, is provided within Attributable underlying EBIT excludes the underlying EBIT of non-controlling note 2 to the Consolidated financial statements.
assets, the closest equivalent IFRS measure to capital employed, is provided within note 9 to the Consolidated financial statements.
The table below Capital employed is defined as net assets excluding net debt and financial asset reconciles underlying EBIT and capital employed to attributable underlying investments.
Attributable capital employed excludes capital employed of EBIT and average attributable capital employed by segment.
Average attributable capital employed is calculated byadding the opening and closing attributable capital employed for the relevant period and dividing by two.
2017 2016 Attributable Attributable US$ million ROCE % ROCE % fide Beers 9% 11% Copper 16% 6% Platinum 10% 4% Iron Ore and Manganese 21% 12% Coal 67% 29% Nickel 1 % Corporate and other n a n a 19% 11% 2017 Less: Less: NonNoncontrolling controlling interests' interests' Opening share of Closing Average share of Attributable attributable Closing closing attributable attributable Underlying underlying underlying capital capital capital capital capital US$ million EBIT EBIT EBIT employed employed employed employed employed fide Beers 873 140 733 7,481 9,294 1,324 7,970 7,725 Copper 923 236 687 4,189 5,899 1,740 4,159 4,174 Platinum 512 121 391 3,796 4,510 669 3,841 3,818 Iron Ore and Manganese 1,978 573 1,405 6,435 8,008 1,258 6,750 6,593 Coal 2,274 37 2,237 3,420 3,384 97 3,287 3,354 Nickel 2,003 1,959 1,959 1,981 Corporate and other 313 313 335 241 241 288 6,247 1,107 5,140 26,989 32,813 5,088 27,725 27,357 2016 Less: Less: NonNoncontrolling controlling interests' interests' Opening share of Closing Average share of Attributable attributable closing attributable attributable Underlying underlying underlying capital Closing capital capital capital capital US$ million EBIT EBIT EBIT employed employed employed employed employed fide Beers 1,019 186 833 7,402 8,725 1,244 7,481 7,441 Copper 261 15 246 4,176 6,073 1,884 4,189 4,182 Platinum 185 46 139 3,726 4,457 661 3,796 3,761 Iron Ore and Manganese 1,275 522 753 5,756 7,472 1,037 6,435 6,096 Coal 1,112 25 1,087 3,978 3,509 89 3,420 3,699 Nickel 15 15 1,968 2,003 2,003 1,986 Corporate and other 71 71 763 335 335 214 3,766 794 2,972 27,769 31,904 4,915 26,989 27,379 Attributable free cash flow Attributable free cash flow is calculated as Cash flows from operations plus dividends received from associates, joint ventures and financial asset investments, less capital expenditure, less tax cash payments excluding tax payments relating to disposals, less net interest paid including interest on derivatives hedging net debt, less dividends paid to non-controlling interests.
A reconciliation of Cash flows from operations, the closest equivalent IFRS measure, is provided on page 38 of the Group Financial Review.
196 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Other information OTHER INFORMATION ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Non-financial APMs Some of our measures are not reconciled to IFRS either because they include non-financial information, because there is no meaningful IFRS comparison or the purpose of the measure is not typically covered by IFRS.
Group APM Category Purpose Copper equivalent production Portfolio complexity Communicate production revenue generation movements in a single comparable measure removing the impact of price Unit cost Earnings volatility Express cost of producing one unit of saleable product Copper equivalent unit cost Portfolio complexity Communicate the cost of production per unit in a single comparable measure for the portfolio Productivity Portfolio complexity Highlight efficiency in generating revenue per employee Volume and cash cost improvements Earnings volatility Quantify year-on-year EBITDA improvement removing the impact of major uncontrollable factors Copper equivalent production Productivity Copper equivalent production, expressed as copper equivalent tonnes, The Groups productivity measure calculates the copper equivalent showschanges in underlying production volume.
It is calculated by production generated per employee.
It is a measure that represents how well expressing each commoditys volume as revenue, subsequently converting headcount is driving revenue.
It is calculated by dividing copper equivalent the revenue into copper equivalent units by dividing by the copper price per production by the average direct headcount from consolidated mining tonne.
Long-term forecast prices and foreign exchange rates where operations in agiven year.
appropriate are used, in order that period-on-period comparisons exclude Volume and cash cost improvements any impact for movements inprice.
The Group uses an underlying EBITDA waterfall to understand its year-onWhen calculating copper equivalent production, all volumes relating to year underlying EBITDA performance.
The waterfall isolates the impact of domestic sales are excluded, as are volumes from Samancor and sales from uncontrollable factors in order that the real year-on-year improvement in non-mining activities.
Volume from projects in pre-commercial production performance can be seen by the user.
Three variables are normalised, in the results of subsidiaries and joint Unit cost operations, for: Unit cost is the direct cash cost including direct cash support costs incurred Price: The movement in price between comparative periods is removed by inproducing one unit of saleable production.
multiplying current year sales volume by the movement in realised price for For bulk products coal, iron ore, unit costs shown are FOB i. e. cost on board each product group: at port.
For base metals copper, nickel, they are shown at C1 i. e. after Foreign exchange: The year-on-year movement in exchange is removed inclusion of by-product credits and logistics costs.
For platinum and from the current year non-US dollar cost base i. e. costs are restated at prior diamonds, unit costs include all direct expensed cash costs incurred year foreign exchange rates.
The non-US dollar cash cost base excludes i. e. excluding, amongst other things, market development activity, corporate costs which are price linked e. g. purchase of concentrate from third-party overhead etc.
Platinum unit costs exclude by-product credits.
Royalties are platinum providers, third-party diamond purchases : and excluded from all unit cost calculations.
Inflation: CPI is removed from cash costs, restating these costs at the Copper equivalent unit cost pricing level of the base year.
Copper equivalent unit cost is the cost incurred to produce one tonne of The remaining variances in the underlying EBITDA waterfall are in real copper equivalent.
Only the cost incurred in mined output from subsidiaries USdollar terms for the base year i. e. for a waterfall comparing 2017 with and joint operations is included, representing direct costs in the Consolidated 2016, the sales volume and cash cost variances exclude the impact of price, income statement controllable by the Group.
Costs and volumes from foreign exchange and CPI and are hence in real 2016 terms.
This allows the associates and joint ventures are excluded, as are those from operations that user of the waterfall to understand the underlying real movement in sales are not yet in commercial production, that deliver domestic production, and volumes and cash costs on a consistent basis.
those associated with third-party volume purchases of diamonds and platinum concentrate.
When calculating copper equivalent unit cost, unit costs for each commodity are multiplied by relevant production, combined and then divided by the total copper equivalent production, to get a copper equivalent unit cost i. e. the cost of mining one tonne of copper equivalent.
The metric is in US dollars and, where appropriate, long-term foreign exchange rates are used to convert from local currency to US dollars.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 197
