Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys and regulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the other irregularities.
IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with United The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United of the corporate and financial information included on the Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, including Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law governing the preparation and dissemination of financial the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for Responsibility statement that period.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the In preparing the Parent Company Financial Statements, the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair Directors are required to: view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consistently.
Make judgements and accounting estimates that are The Strategic report includes a fair review of the development reasonable and prudent.
and performance of the business and the position of the State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal explained in the Financial Statements.
risks and uncertainties that they face.
Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis The Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide continue in business.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance and position, business model In preparing the Group Financial Statements, International and strategy.
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: Properly select and apply accounting policies.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Present information, including accounting policies, in a Directors on 14 February 2018 and is signed on its behalf by: manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information.
Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Paul Moraviec Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as Chief Executive Officer a going concern.
Frank Schulkes Chief Financial Officer ConvaTec Group Plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
