Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT COAL COAL Our coal portfolio is geographically diverse, with metallurgical coal assets in Australia, and thermal coal assets in South Africa and Colombia, which mine products attuned to the individual requirements of our diversified customer base.
We are the worlds third largest exporter of metallurgical coal.
HIGHLIGHTS KEY PRIORITIES RECORD PRODUCTION AT MORANBAH Safety and the elimination of fatalities, focusing on strengthening critical controls and work management, July Ndlovu further developing our front line supervisors and CEO 5.4 Mt Coal South Africa enhancing the safety culture at all levels of the business Complete the roll-out of the Operating Model at all UNDERLYING EBITDA Metallurgical Coal operations In South Africa, replicate the productivity and cost $2.9 billion improvements realised at the underground trade mines David Diamond in the open cut trade mines.
RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED CEO Metallurgical Coal 67% Seamus French PRIORITISING ENVIRONMENTAL RISK AT METALLURGICAL COAL CEO Bulk Commodities Grosvenor colliery in Australia is trialling the Operational Metallurgical Coal has set out to give environmental and Other Minerals Risk Management ORM process to give greater priority issues the necessary focus at its operations.
environmental specialists came together to evaluate and benchmark the risks associated with coal mining, Risk management leads to critical controls that keep and looked at 12 priority unwanted events PUEs in a employees healthy and safe, protect the environment Chief executive baseline risk assessment.
Mark Cutifani addresses and maintain Anglo Americans social licence to operate.
employees at Metallurgical Six specific PUEs were identified, along with 13 Coals Grosvenor mine in But environmental risk is sometimes seen as a associated critical controls.
Following internal 2017, where the operational reputational issue with a lower priority than safety or risk management ORM consultation, the controls were assigned for monitoring process is being trialled.
financial issues, and is not always built into ORM systems.
and evaluation, typically by engineering and maintenance teams, in addition to the mines environment department.
One such critical-control monitoring activity is the six-monthly check on the state of pumping infrastructure that allows the automated transfer of water between facilities.
This ensures the operation can comply with dam operational limits, while reducing the risk of an unplanned release of water.
Another example is the verification that sedimentand erosion-control structures have been maintained effectively before and after the wet season to ensure sediment-laden run-off is managed in accordance with Grosvenors environmental licence.
Monitoring recently identified that additional work is required to prepare sediment traps ahead of the rains.
Environmental risk has high priority at Grosvenor, with learnings being applied across Metallurgical Coal and other operations.
South African production volume is export production only and excludes Eskom-tied operations volumes of 23.9 Mt 2016: 24.8 Mt and other domestic production of 7.5 Mt 2016: 9.9 Mt.
Metallurgical Coal production volumes exclude thermal coal production volumes of 1.6 Mt 2016: 9.5 Mt, including 5.6 Mt of domestic thermal coal.
2 South African sales volumes exclude all domestic sales of 32.0 Mt 2016: 34.5 Mt and non-equity traded sales of 7.6 Mt 2016: 6.1 Mt.
Metallurgical Coal sales volumes exclude thermal coal sales volumes of 1.8 Mt 2016: 9.6 Mt, including 5.4 Mt of domestic thermal coal.
3 Metallurgical Coal is the weighted average hard coking coal and PCI sales price achieved.
Coal South Africa is the weighted average export thermal coal price achieved.
4 FOB cost per saleable tonne, excluding royalties.
Metallurgical Coal excludes study costs and Callide.
Coal South Africa unit cost is for the export operations.
5 Excludes impact of third-party sales and Eskom-tied operations.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING OVERVIEW The sale of the New Largo thermal coal project and Old New Largo closed colliery in South Africa together, Metallurgical Coal New Largo by Anglo American Inyosi Coal Proprietary Underlying EBITDA doubled to $1,977 million Limited to New Largo Coal Proprietary Limited for 2016: $996million, owing to a 65% increase in the R850 million approximately $71 million, was announced on metallurgical coal realised price and higher production at 29 January 2018.
The sale is subject to conditions precedent all three underground operations.
This was partly offset customary for a transaction of this nature, including by planned production cuts at Dawson and Capcoal open regulatory approvals in South Africa.
The transaction is cut operations and the impact of divestments on output.
expected to close in the second half of 2018.
Following the divestments of Foxleigh a PCI producer and Callide a domestic and export thermal coal producer, The financial results reported for the period ended and the cessation of mining activities at Drayton an export 31December 2017 include the Eskom-tied domestic thermal coal producer, the business now produces a thermal coal operations and New Largo.
greater proportion of higher-margin hard coking coal Cerrejn 80% of total production, compared with 53% in 2016.
Underlying EBITDA increased to $385 million Coal South Africa 2016: $235million, owing mainly to higher export Underlying EBITDA increased by 24% to $588 million thermal coal prices, partly offset by a 2% decrease 2016: $473 million, mainly attributable to a 27% increase in sales volumes.
in the export thermal coal price.
US dollar unit costs for the export trade operations increased by 29% to $44 tonne MARKETS 2016: $34 tonne, owing to the stronger South African rand $4 tonne impact, lower production $4 tonne impact, Metallurgical coal mainly at Khwezela, and cost-inflation pressures $2 tonne.
2017 2016 Average market price for premium The sale of the Eskom-tied domestic thermal coal 1 low-volatility hard coking coal $ tonne 188 143 operations consisting of New Vaal, New Denmark, and Average market price for premium Kriel collieries, as well as four closed collieries together, 1 low-volatility PCI $ tonne 119 97 Eskom-tied operations by Anglo Operations Proprietary Average realised price for premium Limited and Anglo American Inyosi Coal Proprietary Limited low-volatility hard coking coal $ tonne 187 119 to a wholly owned subsidiary of Seriti Resources Holdings Average realised price for PCI $ tonne 125 77 Proprietary Limited was announced on 10 April 2017 for 1 Represents average spot prices.
Prior year prices were previously based on the a consideration payable, as at 1 January 2017, of R2.3 billion quarterly average benchmark and have been restated accordingly.
The transaction is expected to complete on 1 March 2018.
Average realised prices differ from the average market price owing to differences in material grade and timing of contracts.
Prices in 2017 were supported by higher steel prices and strong demand globally, as well as by supply constraints arising from wet weather in Queensland in the second quarter.
58 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Thermal coal Coal South Africa 2017 2016 Export production decreased by 3% to 18.6 Mt Average market price 2016: 19.1 Mt, with continued productivity improvements $ tonne, FOB Australia 89 66 at the underground operations more than offset by a Average market price self-enforced 100-hour safety stoppage at all operations $ tonne, FOB South Africa 84 64 following the third fatality of the year.
In addition, at Khwezela Average market price there were operational challenges with the waste fleet and $ tonne, FOB Colombia 78 58 coal recovery operations.
Total production from trade mines Average realised price Export Australia $ tonne, FOB 91 55 decreased by 11% to 22.0 Mt 2016: 24.6 Mt, mainly owing Average realised price to the planned ramp-down of Khwezelas Eskom pit, which Export South Africa $ tonne, FOB 76 60 reached its end of life in the first half of 2017.
Average realised price Production from Eskom-tied operations decreased by 4% Domestic South Africa $ tonne 21 17 to 23.9 Mt 2016: 24.8 Mt due to lower Eskom offtake from Average realised price New Vaal and reserve constraints at Kriel as it approaches Colombia $ tonne, FOB 75 56 the end of its mine life.
The average realised price for thermal coal will differ Cerrejn from the average market price owing to timing and quality Anglo Americans attributable output from its 33.3% differences relative to the industry benchmark.
The shareholding in Cerrejn was 10.6 Mt, in line with the difference in the realised price compared with the prior year.
benchmark price, between 2016 and 2017, reflects changing quality mix owing to a higher proportion of OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK secondary products being sold into the export market.
Metallurgical coal The thermal coal market saw the positive price effects of Export metallurgical coal production guidance for 2018 is the Chinese domestic coal production rationalisation, which unchanged at 20-22 Mt.
supported coal imports into China and lifted seaborne pricing.
On the supply side, Australia was stable, while Export thermal coal Indonesia was constrained owing to mining issues Full year production guidance for 2018 for export thermal associated with ongoing wet weather.
The Atlantic region coal from South Africa and Cerrejn is unchanged at saw coal prices supported by higher electricity prices, partly 29-31 Mt.
driven by nuclear outages in France.
F or more information, refer to the Marketplace review section See pages 11-13 OPERATING PERFORMANCE Metallurgical Coal Production from the underground longwall operations was 14% higher at 12.3 Mt 2016: 10.8 Mt, and included 0.3 Mt from the ramp-up of Grosvenor and record production of 5.4 Mt from Moranbah.
Both Capcoal open cut and Dawson recorded lower production as the sites established alternative pit areas and removed higher-cost production.
Following a recovery from the geological issues experienced in the first six months, and a strong operational performance through the third quarter, Grosvenor completed its first longwall panel during the final quarter of 2017, and also completed an extended longwall move in order to rectify defective components identified during the first panel.
Production on the second longwall panel commenced in December and is in line with the ramp-up plan.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 59
