STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PORTFOLIO PORTFOLIO The quality and long life of our mineral assets are the foundation of our global and diversified business.
We focus on securing and operating assets that offer either in isolation or in combination with other assets in the portfolio the most attractive long term value-creation potential, as measured by sustainable cash flow and returns.
HIGHLIGHTS KEY PRIORITIES MATERIAL MATTERS Feasibility study for the TRANSFORMED AND UPGRADED DISCUSSED IN THIS SECTION: world class Quellaveco copper PORTFOLIO NUMBER OF ASSETS Macro-economic environment project to be presented to the REDUCED FROM 68 IN 2013 TO Operational and cost performance Board in 2018, for development Meeting our commitments to consideration 36 government and society Continue the development of Political and regulatory Jwanengs Cut-8 expansion and UNDERLYING EBITDA IN 2017 FROM Venetias underground extension RECENTLY COMMISSIONED PROJECTS HIGHLIGHTS fide Beers.
PILLARS OF VALUE Financial $686 million Environment Socio-political GROUP ROCE INCREASED TO For our KPIs 19% See page 34 Anglo American is a global diversified mining BUILDING STRATEGIC ADVANTAGE company.
Our portfolio of world class competitive The primary source of competitive advantage in the mining operations and undeveloped resources mining industry is to own high quality, low cost, long life spanning diamonds through DeBeers, copper, assets of scale, with positions that can be further platinum and other precious metals, iron ore, coal enhanced if those assets deliver products into structurally and nickel provides the raw materials to meet the attractive markets.
growing consumer-driven demands of the worlds developed and maturing economies.
In assessing our asset portfolio, we consider: The diversification and scale of our portfolio allows us to The stand-alone quality of individual assets, including their leverage our financial resources, technical expertise, and relative cost position and resource and growth potential supplier relationships towards delivery on our potential and Our global competitive position within the individual to the benefit of our customers.
The diverse composition product groups of the portfolio also creates a measured risk profile and supports strong returns by balancing and optimising the The additional value potential generated through our concentration of our investments across: dedicated marketing expertise.
Products supply DeBeers DeBeers has the global leadership position in diamonds, End-markets demand producing around a third of the worlds rough diamonds, Geographies political, regulatory and other by value.
Within its portfolio, DeBeers Anglo American: country-specific considerations.
85% interest, in partnership with the Government of the Republic of Botswana, has one of the richest diamond mines, by value, in the world at Jwaneng and one of the largest Diamond Resources, by volume, at Orapa.
The new Gahcho Ku mine 51% fide Beers owned, in Canadas Northwest Territories, entered commercial production in March 2017.
16 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Our major diamond mining assets have large, long life and Copper scalable resources and we are continuing to invest in our Anglo American has a world-class asset position in copper, existing operations to extend our mining activities.
The with the potential to establish a leading position built around Cut-8 expansion of Jwaneng will increase the depth of the its interests in two of the worlds largest copper mines mine from 400 metres to 650 metres, while in South Africa, LosBronces a 50.1% owned subsidiary and Collahuasi Venetia is being extended underground, extending the life of 44% owned joint operation, with Reserve Lives of 23 years 1 mine to 2046. and 69 years, respectively.
The resource base of these assets underpins our future near-asset opportunities, in The lack of many significant economic kimberlite addition to a number of future potential projects, including discoveries over many years, combined with the ongoing our feasibility phase Quellaveco project in southern Peru growth in consumer demand for diamond jewellery in both one of the worlds largest untapped copper orebodies and mature and developing markets, points to strong prospects the polymetallic Sakatti deposit in Finland.
1 The current Mining The copper industry, although expected to be broadly Right expires in 2038.
Through its differentiated rough diamond distribution balanced in the medium term, is expected to struggle An application to model, which comprises term contract Sightholders, renew the Mining to meet longer term demand growth, including from accredited buyers and auction sales customers, DeBeers Right will be electric vehicles and renewable energy, as declining submitted at the has a range of insights into its customers demand patterns.
grades and more challenging physical and environmental appropriate time.
DeBeers seeks to stimulate consumer demand for conditions, along with tougher licensing and permitting There is a reasonable diamonds through its Forevermark and DeBeers expectation that such requirements, will all affect the industrys ability to deliver Jewellers brands and through its participation in the renewal will not be new copper supply.
RESTRUCTURING OUR METALLURGICAL COAL BUSINESS FOR SUCCESS Material matters Operational and cost improvements required to deliver sustainable cash flow and returns across the cycle.
Delivered via: Productivity improvements at longwall operations Restructuring and divestment of lower margin assets Successful commissioning of Grosvenor metallurgical coal project.
The restructuring Over the past few years, Anglo American has delivered Divestments over the past two years have included of our Metallurgical Coal a comprehensive restructuring of Metallurgical Coal, the pulverised coal injection PCI producer Foxleigh and business in Australia has resulted in a significantly Groups high margin coal business based in Queensland, Callide a domestic and export thermal coal producer, improved product mix.
The restructuring has taken a number of forms, while mining activities have ceased at Drayton an Over the past seven years, production of with a focus on driving material margin improvement: export thermal producer and we expect to complete higher-value hard the sale of the operation in the near future coking coal has Improvements at Grasstree and Moranbah longwall increased from 51% to mines both hard coking coal HCC producers The Dawson and Capcoal open cut operations, 80%.
Featured is coal handling and preparation have resulted in a 66% improvement in run of mine that produce HCC, PCI and thermal coal, have been plant operator at the productivity over the past seven years.
These two substantially restructured to reduce volumes, take Moranbah-Grosvenor mines are now Australias most productive coal out the highest cost capacity and increase margins.
A third longwall mine was added to These initiatives have led to the proportion of HCC in the portfolio when Grosvenor, also an HCC producer, Metallurgical Coals export-production mix climbing from delivered its first coal in May 2016, seven months ahead 51% in 2010 to 80% in 2017, while completion of the of schedule and more than $100million below its total ramp-up at Grosvenor will see this proportion increase capital budget.
Metallurgical Coal now has a significantly improved geological conditions during its commissioning, product mix, which has increased its profit margin by these have been largely overcome and the mine is $29 tonne since 2010, while stringent containment of unit currently ramping up after its first longwall move costs has seen seven years of inflation more than offset by productivity improvements and restructuring.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 17
