GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial In preparing the Group financial statements, IAS 1 statements for each financial year.
The directors are requires that directors: required to prepare the Group financial statements in properly select and apply accounting policies accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union and present information, including accounting policies, in a Article 4 of the IAS regulation, and have elected to prepare manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and the parent company financial statements in accordance with understandable information Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Framework.
The directors must not approve the accounts specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of users to understand the impact of particular transactions, the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of other events and conditions on the entitys financial the Company for that period.
position and financial performance In preparing the parent company financial statements, the make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue directors are required to: as a going concern.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The directors are responsible for keeping adequate consistently accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain make judgements and accounting estimates that are the Groups transactions, disclose with reasonable accuracy reasonable and prudent at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with state whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Disclosure Framework has been followed, subject to any safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for material departures disclosed and explained in the taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection financial statements of fraud and other irregularities.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern The directors are responsible for the maintenance and basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the integrity of the corporate and financial information included Company will continue in business.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2017 We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: a t he financial statements, prepared in accordance with c t he Annual Report and financial statements, taken as the applicable set ofaccounting standards, give a true a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position provide the information necessary for shareholders and profit of Anglo American plc and the undertakings to assess the Groups performance, business model included in the consolidation taken as a whole and strategy.
b the strategic report includes a fair review of the By order of the Board development and performance of the business and the position of Anglo American plc and the undertakings Mark Cutifani Stephen Pearce included in the consolidation taken as awhole, together Chief Executive Finance Director with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 21 February 2018 that they face 116 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONTENTS Independent auditors report  118 Primary statements Consolidated income statement 122 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 122 Consolidated balance sheet 123 Consolidated cash flow statement 124 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 125 Notes to the financial statements Financial performance 1 Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint operations 126 2 Financial performance by segment 127 3 Earnings per share 128 4 Net finance costs 129 5 Income tax expense 130 6 Dividends 131 Significant items 7 Significant accounting matters 132 8 Special items and remeasurements 134 Capital base 9 Capital by segment 136 10 Intangible assets 137 11 Property, plant and equipment 137 12 Capital expenditure 138 13 Investments in associates and joint ventures 139 14 Financial asset investments 140 15 Provisions for liabilities and charges 140 16 Deferred tax 141 Working capital 17 Inventories 143 18 Trade and other receivables 143 19 Trade and other payables 144 Net debt and financial risk management 20 Net debt 145 21 Borrowings 146 22 Financial instruments and derivatives 147 23 Financial risk management 150 Equity 24 Called-up share capital and consolidated equity analysis 153 25 Non-controlling interests 154 Employees 26 Employee numbers and costs 155 27 Retirement benefits 156 28 Share-based payments 160 Unrecognised items and uncertain events 29 Events occurring after end of year 161 30 Commitments 161 31 Contingent liabilities 161 Group structure 32 Assets and liabilities held for sale 162 33 Disposals 162 34 Basis of consolidation 163 35 Related undertakings of the group 165 Other items 36 Related party transactions 173 37 Auditors remuneration 173 38 Accounting policies 174 Financial statements of the Parent Company 181 Summary by operation 184 Key financial data 185 Exchange rates and commodity prices 186 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT  REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Opinion Going concern In our opinion: We have reviewed the directors statement in note 38 to the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any Groups profit for the year then ended: material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance financial statements.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, obtained in the audit.
including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to inrespect of these matters.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Principal risks and viability statement financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the We have audited the financial statements of Anglo American plc the Parent audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going the Consolidated income statement: concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: ordraw attention to in relation to: the Consolidated balance sheet: the disclosures on pages 41-45 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Consolidated cash flow statement: the directors confirmation on page 41 that they have carried out a robust the Consolidated statement of changes in equity: assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that the Accounting policies: would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the related notes 1 to 38: and the Balance sheet of the Parent Company and related information.
the directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether isapplicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework necessary qualifications or assumptions.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to Basis for opinion theprospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for attention to in respect of these matters.
theaudit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance Key audit matters with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that non-audit services misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the Parent Company.
theallocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Our assessment of the Groups key audit matters is consistent with 2016 except for Corporate Asset Transactions which is no longer considered a key audit matter as a result of the significant reduction in the scale of the Groups planned and completed disposals during 2017.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
118 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Financial statements Impairment Refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 80-87 and the disclosures in notes 7 and 8 on pages 132-135.
Key audit matter As a consequence of licensing and operational developments during the year and continued volatility in commodity prices and description foreign exchange rates, the assessment of the recoverable amount of operating assets and development projects remains a keyjudgement.
Management assessed whether indicators of impairment or impairment reversal exist for assets in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
During the year, this included El Soldado and the Sishen mine in South Africa where impairment reversals of $194 million and $468 million have been recorded during the year as well as other specific assets including Minas-Rio that experienced licensing delays during the year and the coal operations in Australia where impairments had previously been recorded.
How the scope of our We reviewed managements assessment as to whether indicators of impairment or impairment reversal exist.
Where such audit responded indicators were identified we obtained copies of the valuation models used to determine the value in use or fair value less costs to the key audit matter ofdisposal of the relevant asset.
We challenged the assumptions made by management in relation to these models, including the discount rate used, the commodity prices, capital expenditure and operating cost forecasts and the expected production profiles, by comparison to recent analyst forecast commodity price data, reference to third party documentation where available, utilisation of Deloitte valuation specialists, review of Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource reports, consultation with operational management and consideration of sensitivity analyses.
We assessed whether the assumptions had been determined and applied on a consistent basis across the Group.
Key observations We found that the assumptions used were reasonable and had been determined and applied on a consistent basis across the Group.
No additional impairments or impairment reversals were identified from the work performed.
We found that the impairment reversal recorded at the Sishen mine in South Africa was appropriate, primarily due to the increased forecast production in the updated Life of Mine Plan and continued improvements in the operational performance of the mine.
Taxation Refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 80-87 and the disclosures in notes 5 and 16 on pages 130-131 and 141-142 respectively.
Key audit matter The recognition and measurement of certain of the Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities requires management judgement description and is a key area of audit effort due to the complexity of tax regulations across the jurisdictions where the Group operates.
At 31 December 2017, the deferred tax assets recognised by the Group totalled $1,191 million, with the most significant asset related to Minas-Rio.
Management has performed an assessment of the forecast taxable profits against which the Groups tax losses and other tax attributes can be offset in future periods.
The deferred tax liabilities recognised across the Group at 31 December 2017 totalled $4,188 million.
How the scope of our Through the close involvement of our tax specialist teams at both a Group and business unit level we assessed the appropriateness audit responded of the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group through discussions with the Groups taxation department and to the key audit matter review of supporting documentation and calculations.
In relation to assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, we reviewed and challenged the basis and underlying assumptions in the supporting taxable profit forecasts in order to assess the appropriateness of the assets recognised.
Inparticular, we challenged managements assessment that, in measuring the Minas-Rio deferred tax asset, taxable profit forecasts considered probable should be limited by reference to the criteria set out in IAS 12 Income taxes.
In relation to deferred tax liabilities recognised across the Group, we tested the relevant deferred tax calculations and challenged managements underlying assumptions.
Key observations We are satisfied that deferred tax assets and liabilities are properly recognised.
Special items and remeasurements Refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 80-87 and the disclosures in note 8 on pages 134-135.
Key audit matter The Group disclosed Special items and remeasurements in the Consolidated income statement.
These items primarily relate to description impairment reversals, adjustments arising on the sale or acquisition of operations, adjustments relating to former operations and financing special items and remeasurements which are further defined in note 8 to the financial statements.
The assessment of the appropriateness of items disclosed within Special items and remeasurements is a key judgement because of their impact upon the reporting of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group and is therefore an area where potential management bias could occur.
In addition, management considered the guidance from the European Securities and Market Authority ESMA in making this assessment.
How the scope of our In the context of our audit of the overall income statement we considered and challenged each item disclosed within Special items audit responded and remeasurements with reference to the guidance from ESMA.
to the key audit matter We determined whether such categorisation is appropriate and consistent with the Groups stated policy and past practice for recognition of such items, and whether, taken as a whole, the income statement is fair and balanced in its presentation.
Key observations We are satisfied that all items included within Special items and remeasurements display no indication of management bias in the categorisation and that where relevant the categorisation was consistent with prior practice.
We consider that the related disclosures are also appropriate.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT  The Senior Statutory Auditor and or a senior member of the Group audit team Our application of materiality visits the principal location of each significant business unit at least once We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial every year and key operational assets on a rotating basis.
statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use The Parent Company is located in the United Kingdom and audited directly by materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the the Group audit team.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group revenue financial statements as a whole as follows: % Full audit scope 95 Materiality Group specified procedures 5 $200 million 2016: $200 million Parent Company Underlying EBIT $76 million 2016: $67.5 million % Basis for Group Full audit scope 92 determining We have considered both asset and profit bases in the specified procedures 8 materiality determination of materiality.
$200 million equates to 0.7% 2016: 0.8% of net assets and 5.8% 2016: 6.2% of Net assets normalised three year pre-tax profit before special items % and remeasurements.
Full audit scope 97 The use of a combination of bases is consistent with our specified procedures 3 approach in 2016.
Parent Company The Parent Company materiality represents below Other information 1% 2016: below 1% of shareholders equity.
When The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information determining this materiality, we also considered the comprises the information included in the Annual Report other than the appropriateness of this materiality for the consolidation financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
ofthis set of financial statements to the Groups results.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information Rationale Group and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not for the Given the continued volatility in commodity prices and express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
benchmark thecyclical nature of the mining industry we believe that In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility applied incorporating balance sheet metrics in our assessment istoread the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other inaddition to pre-tax profit before special items and information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our remeasurements is a more appropriate approach as it knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially reflects the capital invested, the changes in production, misstated.
the volume of commodities sold and the scale of the Groups operations.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material Parent Company misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the Due to the Parent Companys primary role as a holding other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that company, owning investments in other Group entities, there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to shareholders equity is the key metric driving shareholder report that fact.
As such we considered shareholders equity the most appropriate benchmark to determine the Parent In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as Company materiality.
uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors all audit differences in excess of $10 million 2016: $10 million for the Group that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a and $3.8 million 2016: $3.4 million for the Parent Company, as well as whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the our knowledge obtained in the audit: or financial statements.
Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit An overview of the scope of our audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group, the Parent tothe Audit Committee: or Company and their environment, including internal control, and assessing the Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance risks of material misstatement.
Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing All business units were subject to a full scope audit with the exception of Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Manganese and Nickel where specific procedures were performed.
This Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor represents a change from 2016 where Nickel had been subject to full audit in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a scope procedures.
Our approach in 2017 has been designed to focus on the departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
key audit matters identified within that business unit and to perform We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
appropriate procedures on the rest of the business units financial information noting its financial significance in the context of the Group as a whole.
The work performed by the component audit teams at each business unit is guided by the Group audit team and is executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from $90 million to $110 million 2016: $90 million to $110million.
120 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Financial statements Responsibilities of directors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal opinion: control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of we have not received all the information and explanations we require for financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due ouraudit: or tofraud or error.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a notvisited by us: or going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend accounting records and returns.
to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion financial statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether the accounting records and returns.
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material Other matters misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and Auditor tenure are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, Deloitte and Touche reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken were appointed by the shareholders on 24 May 1999 to audit the financial on the basis of these financial statements.
statements for the year ended 31 December 1999 and subsequent financial A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: renewals and reappointments of the firm is 18 years, covering the years ended www.
This description forms part of our 31December 1999 to 31 December 2017. auditors report.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to Use of our report the Audit Committee This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Kari Hale, ACA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Statutory Auditor Opinions on other matters prescribed by the London, UK Companies Act 2006 21 February 2018 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited hasbeen properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 121
