Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 8.
Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions continued Curing of forborne loans During the year the Group changed its methodology, to allow curing of forborne loans.
A forborne loan can only be removed from the disclosure cured if the loan is performing and a further two year probation period is met.
In order for a forborne loan to become performing, the following criteria have to be satis ed: At least a year has passed with no default based upon the forborne contract terms The customer is likely to repay its obligations in full without realising security The customer has no accumulated impairment against amount outstanding Subsequent to the criteria above, a further two year probation period has to be ful lled, whereby regular payments are made by the customer and none of the exposures to the customer are more than 30 days past due.
Forborne loans are disclosed by client segments pages 126 to 129.
Further details on the application of these policies are set out in the Risk review and Capital review pages 128 to 129.
The following table reconciles the charge for impairment provisions on loans and advances to the total impairment charge and other credit risk provision: 2017 2016 $million $million Net charge against pro t on loans and advances: Individual impairment charge 1,604 2,553 Portfolio impairment release charge 239 52 1,365 2,605 Impairment release charges related to credit commitments 23 45 Impairment charges relating to debt securities classi ed as loans and receivables 20 97 Impairment charges relating to credit risk mitigation instruments 44 Total impairment losses and other credit risk provisions on loans and advances 1,362 2,791 Impairment charges relating to credit risk mitigation instruments The Group executed funded credit mitigation transactions related to the Liquidation Portfolio, which did not achieve derecognition and are recorded as liabilities on an amortised cost basis.
The liability balances are adjusted for revisions to the impairment estimates for the loans referenced in the transactions.
Both impairment losses on the referenced loans and the related impairment on these credit mitigation transactions are recorded in total impairment losses and other credit risk provisions on loans and advances.
An analysis of impairment provisions on loans and advances by geography and client segment is set out within the Risk review and Capital review pages 130 to 137.
Other impairment Accounting policy Available-for-sale assets Where objective evidence of impairment exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the amortised cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is reclassi ed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Available-for-sale debt securities are assessed for impairment in the same way as assets carried at amortised cost see note 8 Objective evidence of impairment, for impairment trigger events.
Further, the extent, observability and depth of market price decreases and collateral rights are considered when assessing objective evidence of listed impairment for available-for-sale instruments.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classi ed as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
For equity securities, a signi cant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an equity security below its cost is considered, among other factors, in assessing objective evidence of impairment.
In assessing signi cance, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the original fair value of the asset upon recognition.
In assessing prolonged, the decline is evaluated against the continuous period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its initial recognition amount.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Refer to the below referenced notes for the relevant accounting policy.
