Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 207 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies disclosures have been provided in the notes to these financial 1.1 Reporting entity statements on liabilities included within financing activities Virgin Money Holdings UK plc the Company is a public in the consolidated and parent cash flow statements.
limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
The registered office is Jubilee House, Gosforth, New accounting standards issued by the IASB that are Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, NE3 4PL.
relevant to the Group and effective in future periods are presented in note 37.
The Company was incorporated on 4 August 1995 as a private limited company with registered number 03087587.
1.4 Presentation of information On 24 July 2014 the Company was re-registered as a public Presentation of risk and capital management disclosures limited company.
Disclosures under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure The Company is the parent entity and the ultimate controlling concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to party of the Virgin Money Group the Group, which consists of financial instruments and under IAS 1 Presentation of the Company and its subsidiaries.
financial statements concerning objectives, policies and processes for managing capital have been included within 1.2 Basis of preparation the audited sections of the Risk Management Report.
Where The Group consolidated financial statements, which should marked as audited these are covered by the Independent be read in conjunction with the Directors Report, have Auditors Report.
been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1.5 Basis of consolidation as adopted by the EU, including interpretations issued The Group consists of the Company and its subsidiaries.
by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, and with those The subsidiaries are listed in note 2 of the parent company parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements reporting under IFRS.
comprise the financial statements of the Group.
IFRS comprises accounting standards prefixed IFRS issued Entities are regarded as subsidiaries where the Group has the by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns those prefixed IAS issued by the IASBs predecessor body from its involvement with the investee and the ability to affect as well as interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations those returns.
Inter-company transactions and balances are Committee IFRS IC and its predecessor body.
Subsidiaries are consolidated EU endorsed version of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: from the date on which control is transferred to the Group Recognition and Measurement relaxes some of the hedge and are fide-consolidated from the date that power over an accounting requirements: the Group has not taken advantage investee, exposure or rights to variable returns and the ability of this relaxation, and therefore there is no difference in to affect these returns ceases.
Accounting policies are applied application to the Group between IFRS as adopted by the EU consistently across the Group.
and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Special Purpose Vehicles SPV are entities created to The Directors have reviewed the strategic plan which shows accomplish a narrow and well defined objective.
For the the financial position, cash flow, liquidity and capital forecasts Group this is the securitisation of mortgage assets.
The Directors are confident that the Group consolidated if the Group has control over the SPV, through will have sufficient resources to meet its liabilities as they its exposure to variable returns from its involvement in the fall due and to continue to operate for a period of at least 12 SPV and the ability to affect those returns through its power months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Accordingly the Directors believe that it remains appropriate The Virgin Money Foundation is classified as an associate.
to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
1.6 Basis of measurement 1.3 Changes in accounting policy The financial statements have been prepared under the New standards, amendments to standards and historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation interpretations adopted of derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale In 2017, the Group adopted amendments to existing standards financial assets held at fair value.
A summary of the material that were endorsed for adoption by the EU and mandatory for accounting policies of the Group are included within note 1.9. annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
Policies which are relevant to the financial statements as a The adoption of the amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes had whole are set out below.
no impact on these financial statements or the accounting The accounting policies have been applied consistently to all polices applied in their preparation.
In adopting the periods presented in these financial statements.
amendments to IAS 7 Statement of cash flows reconciliation 208 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that 1.7 Client money exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments The Groups unit trust management and investment through the expected life of the financial instrument or, where intermediary subsidiary administers money on behalf of appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of some clients in accordance with the Client Money Rules of the the financial asset or liability.
The Group estimates cash flows Financial Conduct Authority.
Client money is not recognised considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument in the balance sheet or in the notes to the financial statements for example prepayment options but does not consider as the Group is not the beneficial owner.
The calculation includes all amounts 1.8 Foreign currency translation received or paid by the Group that are an integral part of the The Groups financial statements are presented in Sterling, overall return, direct incremental transaction costs related which is the functional currency of the Company, all of its to the acquisition or issue of a financial instrument, loan subsidiaries and the SPVs included within the consolidated commitment fees and all other premiums and discounts.
Once a financial asset or group of similar financial assets has Foreign currency transactions are translated into functional been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of income is recognised on the written down carrying value using the transactions.
Monetary items denominated in foreign the assets original effective interest rate, being the rate of currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the balance interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose sheet date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from of measuring the impairment loss.
the restatement and settlement of such transactions are Interest receivable or payable on derivatives, whether in recognised in the income statement, except when recognised economic or accounting hedges, is recorded on an accruals in other comprehensive income if relating to a qualifying basis in interest receivable or payable.
Interest on availablecash flow hedge or available-for-sale assets.
Non-monetary for-sale AFS debt securities is recorded in interest receivable items which are assets or liabilities which do not attach to a using the effective interest rate method.
right to receive or an obligation to pay currency measured at historical cost and denominated in foreign currencies are c Fees and commissions translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Where they are not included in the effective interest rate Non-monetary items measured at fair value are translated at calculation, fees and commissions are recognised on an the exchange rate at the date of valuation.
Where these are accruals basis when the service has been received or provided.
held at fair value through the income statement, exchange Income from general insurance and life insurance policies is differences are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
recognised in full on the effective date of commencement or 1.9 Accounting policies renewal of the related policies to reflect underlying contracts The accounting policies of the Group are set out below.
a Operating segments d Other operating income The Groups chief operating decision maker which has been Other operating income comprises the fair value for services, determined by the Group to be the Executive Committee net of value added tax, rebates and discounts.
Other operating assesses performance and makes decisions regarding the income is attributable to the sale and management of stocks allocation of the Groups resources, in accordance with IFRS8 and shares ISAs, pensions, authorised unit trusts and other Operating Segments.
All of the Groups product lines are financial services products.
managed under a single centralised commercial function, with Other operating income from sales of units in managed funds the Groups performance assessed, and resource allocation is recognised daily based on the average volume of funds decisions made, on a centralised basis.
Therefore the Group under management.
has determined that it has only one reportable segment.
Other income includes commission on donations and other The underlying basis is the basis on which financial sundry income.
information is presented to the chief operating decision e Operating expenses maker which excludes certain items included in profit or loss Operating expenses are recognised on an accruals basis as determined under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Included within the employee benefits b Interest income and expense expense are employee share based payments.
The accounting Interest income and expense are recognised in the income policy in relation to share based payments is set out in policy f. statement for all instruments measured at amortised cost Staff costs using the effective interest rate method.
The Group accounts for components of employee costs on the This method calculates the amortised cost of a financial asset following bases: or liability, and allocates the interest income or expense over Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 209 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued Short-term employee benefits over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards the vesting period.
Short-term employee benefits include salaries and social security costs and are recognised over the period in which the All awards granted under current schemes are conditional employees provide the services to which the payments relate.
shares which have service conditions.
The Long Term Incentive Plan awards also have non-market performance conditions.
Cash bonus awards are recognised to the extent that the No awards have market performance conditions and no share Group has a present obligation to its employees that can be options have been granted in the current or prior year.
measured reliably and are recognised over the period that employees are required to provide services.
The employee expense is determined by reference to the fair value of the number of shares that are expected to vest.
Other long-term employee benefits The fair value of the shares granted is based on market Other long-term employee benefits include deferred cash prices at the date of award.
The determination of fair values bonus awards.
Deferred cash bonus awards are recognised excludes the impact of service conditions and any nonat the present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
market performance conditions, which are included in the These costs are recognised over the period that employees are assumptions used to estimate the number of shares that are required to provide services.
At each balance sheet date, this estimate is reassessed and if necessary revised.
Any revision of the Retirement benefit obligations original estimate is recognised in the income statement, A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit together with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
plan into which the Group pays fixed contributions and has g Impairment losses no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
The Group assesses its financial assets or groups of financial Contributions are recognised as staff expenses in profit or assets for objective evidence of impairment at each balance loss in the periods during which related employee services sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised if a loss event or are fulfilled.
events has occurred after initial recognition, and on or before The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes the balance sheet date, that has an impact on the estimated for its Directors and employees.
The assets of the schemes future cash flows of the financial assets or groups of financial are held separately from those of the Group in independently assets that can be reliably measured.
Losses incurred as a administered funds.
result of events occurring after the balance sheet date are not Leases recognised in these financial statements.
If the lease agreement in which the Group is a lessee transfers Loans and receivables at amortised cost the risks and rewards of the asset, the lease is recorded as a The Group assesses whether objective evidence of impairment finance lease and the related asset is capitalised.
At inception, exists individually for financial assets that are individually the asset is recorded at the lower of the present value of the significant.
Financial assets that are not individually minimum lease payments or fair value and is depreciated over significant are assessed on a collective basis, except for such the estimated useful life.
The lease obligations are recorded assets where there are specific circumstances indicating as borrowings.
evidence of impairment for example loans that have entered If the lease does not transfer the risks and rewards of the possession or where fraud has been committed.
asset, the lease is recorded as an operating lease.
Objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired includes Operating lease payments are charged to profit or loss on observable data that comes to the attention of the Group a straight line basis over the lease term unless a different about the following loss events: systematic basis is more appropriate.
Where an operating there is evidence of the customer or issuer experiencing lease is terminated before the lease period has expired, any financial difficulty: payment required to be made to the lessor in compensation is charged to profit or loss in the period in which there is a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency termination is made.
in repayments: f Share based payments the customer is granted a concession that would otherwise The Group operates a number of equity settled share based not be considered: payment schemes in respect of services received from certain the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial of its employees.
reorganisation: The value of the employee services received in exchange for the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset awards granted under these schemes is recognised as an because of financial difficulties: and employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity 210 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease Available-for-sale financial assets in the estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether since the initial recognition of those assets, although the there is objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired.
decrease cannot yet be identified with the individual financial The loss is measured as the difference between the assets assets in the portfolio, including: acquisition cost less principal repayments and amortisation and the current fair value.
The impairment loss is recognised there are adverse changes in the payment status of in profit or loss.
This includes cumulative gains and losses borrowers in the portfolio: and previously recognised in other comprehensive income economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the which are recycled from other comprehensive income to the assets in the portfolio.
If the Group determines that no objective evidence of If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group can be objectively related to an event occurring after of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the and collectively assesses them for impairment.
In assessing impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
Impairment collective impairment for retail assets the Group uses losses recognised in profit or loss on equity instruments are statistical modelling of historic trends to assess the not reversed through profit and loss.
probability of a group of financial assets going into default h Taxation and the subsequent loss incurred.
Regular model monitoring is Taxation comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax performed to ensure model assumptions remain appropriate.
and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the Assets that are individually assessed and for which an extent that they relate to items recognised directly in equity impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is based on the included in a collective assessment of impairment.
taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The and receivables has been incurred, the amount of the loss Group has adopted the Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks is measured as the difference between the asset carrying issued by HM Revenue & Customs.
amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for through the use of an impairment allowance and the amount taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or When a loan or receivable is uncollectible, it is written off substantively enacted by the reporting date.
against the related allowance for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, tax have been completed and the amount of the loss has been credits and deductible temporary differences, to the extent determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available written off are recognised directly in the income statement.
against which they can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised will be realised.
such as an improvement in the customers credit rating, the i Earnings per share previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit the impairment allowance.
The amount of the reversal is attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company recognised in profit or loss.
by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares An allowance is also made in the case of accounts which outstanding during the period excluding own shares held in may not currently be in arrears, where losses may have employee benefit trusts or held for trading.
been incurred but not yet recognised.
An increased The diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting profit allowance is held for accounts where an impairment trigger or loss that is attributable to ordinary shareholders and the event has occurred which includes accounts benefitting weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding from forbearance and those in arrears.
Refer to the Risk for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which Management Report for details of the forbearance policy.
comprise share options and awards granted to employees.
Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 211 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued For the calculation of diluted earnings per share the weightedprices.
They are initially measured at fair value including average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to direct and incremental transaction costs.
Fair values are assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, if obtained from quoted market prices in active markets and, any, that arise in respect of share options and rewards granted where these are not available, from valuation techniques to employees.
The number of shares that could have been including discounted cash flow models refer policy m. acquired at the average annual share price of the Companys With the exception of certain unquoted equity instruments shares based on the monetary value of the subscription measured at cost less impairment because their fair value rights attached to outstanding share options and awards cannot be measured reliably, subsequent measurement is is determined.
This is deducted from the number of shares at fair value, with changes in fair value being recognised issuable under such options and awards to leave a residual in other comprehensive income except for impairment bonus amount of shares which are added to the weightedlosses and translation differences, which are recognised average number of ordinary shares in issue, but no adjustment in profit or loss.
Upon derecognition of the asset, or where is made to the profit attributable to equity shareholders.
there is objective evidence that the investment security is impaired, the cumulative gains and losses recognised j Financial instruments in other comprehensive income are removed from other Financial assets comprehensive income and recycled to profit or loss.
Management determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Held to maturity financial assets In line with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Held to maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial Measurement, financial assets can be classified in the assets with fixed or determinable payments that the Group following categories: has the ability and intention to hold to maturity.
No financial assets were classified as held to maturity during either the loans and receivables: current or prior year.
available-for-sale: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss held to maturity: or This category consists of derivative financial assets.
Assets financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
in this category are carried at fair value.
The fair values of Purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through derivative instruments are calculated by discounted cash profit or loss, held to maturity and available-for-sale are flow models using yield curves that are based on observable recognised on the trade date, the date on which the Group market data or are based on valuations obtained from commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Gains and losses arising from the changes in the fair values are recognised in the income statement or Loans and receivables at amortised cost other comprehensive income refer policy n. The Groups loans and advances to banks and customers, and Financial liabilities asset backed securities for which there is no active market, The Group measures all of its financial liabilities at amortised are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables cost, other than derivatives and those instruments which have are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable been designated as part of a hedging relationship refer policy payments that are not quoted in an active market, whose n. Borrowings, including deposits and debt securities in issue recoverability is based solely on the credit risk of the customer are recognised initially at fair value, being the issue proceeds and where the Group has no intention of trading the loan net of premiums, discounts and transaction costs incurred.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised All borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost at fair value including direct and incremental transaction using the effective interest rate method.
Subsequent recognition is at amortised cost using adjusted for the amortisation of any premiums, discounts and the effective interest rate method, less any provision transaction costs.
The amortisation is recognised in interest for impairment.
expense and similar charges using the effective interest rate Available-for-sale financial assets method.
The Group does not hold any financial liabilities classified as held for trading.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative assets that are either designated as available-for-sale or are assets Offsetting financial instruments that do not meet the definition of loans and receivables Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount and are not derivatives or assets held at fair value through reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally profit or loss.
These are principally, but not exclusively, enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there investment securities intended to be held for an indefinite is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and period of time which may be sold in response to a need for settle the liability simultaneously.
liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity 212 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued Sale and repurchase agreements The Groups derivative activities are entered into for the Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos are purpose of matching or eliminating risk from potential reclassified in the financial statements as assets pledged movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and when the transferee has the right by contract or custom to equity exposures inherent in the Groups assets, liabilities and sell or repledge the collateral.
The counterparty liability is positions.
All derivative transactions are for economic hedging included in deposits from banks or customer deposits, as purposes and it is decided at the outset which position the appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell derivative will be hedging.
Derivatives are reviewed regularly reverse repos are recorded as loans and advances to banks for their effectiveness as hedges and corrective action or customers as appropriate.
The difference between sale taken, if appropriate.
Derivatives are measured initially and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over and subsequently at fair value.
Fair values are calculated the life of the agreements using the effective interest rate by discounted cash flow models using yield curves that are method.
Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in based on observable market data or are based on valuations the financial statements.
Where derivatives are not designated as part of an accounting hedge relationship, Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities changes in fair value are recorded in the income statement.
Derecognition is the point at which the Group ceases to Where derivatives are designated within accounting hedge recognise an asset or liability on its balance sheet.
The relationships, the treatment of the changes in fair value Groups policy is to derecognise financial assets only when depends on the nature of the hedging relationship as the contractual right to the cash flows from the financial explained below.
asset expires or when the Group transfers the financial assets to another party provided the transfer of the asset also Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this transfers the right to receive the cash flows of the financial way provided certain criteria are met.
The Group documents asset or where the Group has transferred substantially all the at the inception of the accounting hedge relationship the link risks and rewards of ownership.
Where the transfer does not between the hedging instrument and the hedged item as well result in the Group transferring the right to receive the cash as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking flows of the financial assets, but it does result in the Group various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assuming a corresponding obligation to pay the cash flows assessment both at inception and on an ongoing basis of to another recipient, the financial assets are also accordingly whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are derecognised.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities only highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair values or when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cash flows of hedged items.
The Group designates certain converted to shares, cancelled or has expired or is transferred derivatives as either: to a third party.
There were no transactions in the year where Cash flow hedges the Group transferred financial assets that should have been A cash flow hedge is used to hedge exposures to variability in derecognised in their entirety.
cash flows, such as variable rate financial assets and liabilities.
k Loans and advances to banks The effective portion of changes in the derivative fair value is The Groups loans and advances to banks are classified as recognised in other comprehensive income, and recycled to loans and receivables.
the income statement in the periods when the hedged item l Loans and advances to customers will affect profit and loss.
Interest rate derivatives designated The Groups loans and advances to customers are classified as as cash flow hedges primarily hedge the exposure to cash flow loans and receivables.
vulnerability from forecast loans and advances to customers.
The fair value gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is m Available-for-sale financial assets recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The Groups debt securities and equity instruments are classified as available-for-sale assets.
Equity instruments are Fair value hedges classified as available-for-sale because they do not meet the A fair value hedge is used to hedge exposures to variability definition of loans and receivables, have no defined maturity in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities, such as dates and are not derivatives or assets held at fair value fixed rate loans.
Changes in fair value of derivatives that are through profit or loss.
designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in n D erivative financial instruments and hedge accounting the income statement, together with any changes in the fair The Group is authorised to undertake the following types of value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to derivative financial instrument transactions for non-trading the hedged risk.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for purposes: cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps, equity hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of swaps, interest rate caps, forward rate agreements, options, the hedged item is amortised to the income statement over foreign exchange contracts and similar instruments.
Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 213 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued The most frequently used fair value hedges are: Financial liabilities are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Equity instruments are initially hedging the interest rate risk of a portfolio of prepayable fixed recognised at net proceeds, after deducting transaction costs rate assets with interest rate derivatives.
This solution is used and any related income tax.
Appropriations to holders of to establish a macro fair value hedge for derivatives hedging equity securities are deducted from equity, net of any related fixed rate mortgages: income tax, as they become irrevocably due to the holders of hedging the interest rate risk of a portfolio of non-prepayable the securities.
fixed rate liabilities with interest rate derivatives.
This solution Securitisation is a means used by the Group to fund an is used to establish a macro fair value hedge for derivatives element of its mortgage portfolio.
These securitised advances hedging fixed rate savings: are subject to non-recourse finance arrangements.
These hedging the interest rate risk of non-prepayable fixed rate advances have been transferred at their principal value assets with interest rate derivatives.
This solution is used to to Special Purpose Vehicles SPV and have been funded establish micro fair value hedges for fixed rate investments: through the issue of amortising mortgage backed securities and to investors.
hedging the interest rate and foreign currency exchange risk In accordance with note 1.5, the Group has assessed that it of non-prepayable, foreign currency denominated fixed rate controls the SPVs and therefore consolidates the assets and assets or liabilities on a one-for-one basis with fixed floating liabilities of the SPVs, on a line by line basis.
or floating fixed cross currency interest rate swaps.
This p Funding for Lending Scheme solution is used to establish micro fair value hedges for foreign The Group participates in the Bank of Englands Funding currency denominated fixed rate investments.
The scheme allows the Group to o Securitisation transactions receive Treasury bills in return for eligible collateral, including Certain Group companies have issued debt securities in approved portfolios of loans and advances to customers.
order to finance specific loans and advances to customers.
Receipt of Treasury bills under the FLS does not involve the Both the debt securities in issue and the loans and advances substantial transfer of the risks and rewards on the collateral, to customers remain on the Group balance sheet within the or the right to receive its related cash flows, hence the appropriate balance sheet headings unless: derecognition criteria outlined in policy j are not satisfied.
a fully proportional share of all or of specifically identified Therefore the collateral assets will continue to be recognised cash flows have been transferred to the holders of the debt in the financial statements and the Treasury bills are not securities, in which case that proportion of the assets are separately recognised.
derecognised: In the event that Treasury bills are utilised for repo substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the transactions, the related collateral assets are categorised as assets have been transferred, in which case the assets are fully pledged assets and the associated liability to the counterparty derecognised: and is recognised in the financial statements.
a significant proportion of the risks and rewards have been q Intangible assets and amortisation transferred, in which case the assets are recognised only to the Intangible assets purchased separately from a business extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
combination are capitalised at their cost and amortised from the date from which they become available for use The Group has also entered into self-issuance of securitised over their useful economic life which is generally 3 to 10 debt which may be used as collateral for repurchase or years.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition similar transactions.
Investments in self-issued debt and are capitalised at their fair value where this can be measured the equivalent deemed loan, together with the related reliably in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
income, expense and cash flows, are not recognised in the financial statements.
Expenditure incurred in relation to scoping, planning and researching the build of an asset as part of a project is Debt securities in issue expensed as incurred.
Issued securities are classified as financial liabilities where the contractual arrangements result in the Group having an Development expenditure incurred on a project is capitalised obligation to deliver either cash or another financial asset only if the following criteria are met: to the security holder, or to exchange financial instruments an asset is created that can be identified: under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the it is probable that the asset created will generate future Group.
Issued securities are classified as equity where they economic benefits: and meet the definition of equity and confer a residual interest in the Groups assets on the holder of the securities.
the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
214 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued Following the initial recognition of development expenditure, r Tangible fixed assets and depreciation the cost is amortised over the estimated useful lives of the Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated assets created.
Amortisation commences on the date that the depreciation and provision for impairment, as appropriate.
asset is brought into use.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working Internally generated intangible assets relate to computer condition for its intended use.
Additions and subsequent software and core banking platforms.
expenditure are included in the assets carrying value or are Computer software recognised as a separate asset only when they improve the Costs incurred in acquiring and developing computer software expected future economic benefits to be derived from the for internal use are capitalised as intangible assets where asset.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the the software leads to the creation of an identifiable nonincome statement in the period in which they are incurred.
monetary asset and it is probable that the expected future Depreciation is provided using the straight line method to economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow allocate costs less residual values over estimated useful to the Group from its use for a period of over one year.
The lives, as follows: software is classified as an intangible asset where it is not an Freehold property 50-100 years integral part of the related hardware and amortised over its estimated useful life on a straight line basis which is generally Leasehold property Unexpired 3 to 10 years.
period of the lease Costs associated with maintaining software are expensed as Plant and leasehold improvements 5-30 years they are incurred.
Computer equipment 3-5 years Banking platforms Office equipment 3-10 years Banking platforms primarily represent the construction Motor vehicles 4 years of operating platforms, which are internally generated.
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, and Banking platforms are amortised on a straight line basis over adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
the cost of freehold land can be identified separately from Impairment of intangible assets buildings, the land is not depreciated.
Intangible assets are assessed for indications of impairment Impairment of tangible fixed assets at each balance sheet date, or more frequently where Tangible fixed assets are assessed for indications of required by events or changes in circumstances.
If indications impairment at each balance sheet date, or more frequently of impairment are found, these assets are subject to an where required by events or changes in circumstances.
The impairment review compares the indications of impairment are found, these assets are subject carrying value of the assets with their recoverable amounts, to an impairment review.
The impairment review compares which are defined as the higher of the fair value less costs the carrying value of the assets with their recoverable amount, to sell and their value in use.
Fair value less costs to sell is which are defined as the higher of the fair value less costs the amount at which the asset could be sold in a binding to sell and their value in use.
Fair value less costs to sell is agreement in an arms length transaction.
Value in use is the amount at which the asset could be sold in a binding calculated as the discounted cash flows generated as a result agreement in an arms length transaction.
Value in use is of the assets continued use including those generated by its calculated as the discounted cash flows generated as a result ultimate disposal, discounted at a market rate of interest on a of the assets continued use including those generated by its pre-tax basis.
ultimate disposal, discounted at a market rate of interest on a Where impairments are indicated, the carrying values of pre-tax basis.
intangible assets are written down by the amount of the Where impairments are indicated, the carrying values of fixed impairment and the charge is recognised in the income assets are written down by the amount of the impairment and statement in the period in which it occurs.
A previously the charge is recognised in the income statement in the period recognised impairment charge on an asset may be reversed in in which it occurs.
A previously recognised impairment charge full or in part through the income statement where a change on an asset may be reversed in full or in part through the income in circumstances leads to a change in the estimates used to statement where a change in circumstances leads to a change determine its recoverable amount.
The carrying value will only in the estimates used to determine its recoverable amount.
The be increased to the value at which it would have been held had carrying value will only be increased to the value at which it the impairment not been recognised.
would have been held had the impairment not been recognised.
Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 215 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued s Other assets Share issue costs Other assets include prepayments and other amounts the Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new Group is due to receive from third parties in the normal shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of course of business.
t Deposits from banks Dividends Deposits from banks are initially measured at fair value, Dividends are recognised in equity in the period in which they which is normally the proceeds received net of any directly are approved by the Companys shareholders or paid.
Subsequent measurement is at amortised cost, using the effective Share premium interest rate method.
Share premium substantially represents the aggregate of u Customer deposits all amounts that have ever been paid above par value to the Customer deposits are initially measured at fair value, which is Company when it has issued Ordinary and Deferred Shares.
Subsequent measurement is Certain expenses in relation to the issue of share capital at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
can be offset against the share premium account.
These expenses must be the incremental expenses arising on issue v Provisions of the shares.
Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising from past events where it is more likely than not that an y Other equity instruments outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations Issued financial instruments are recognised as equity where and they can be estimated reliably.
Provisions for levies are there is no contractual obligation to deliver either cash or recognised when the conditions that trigger the payment of another financial asset.
The proceeds are included in equity, the levy are met.
Distributions and other returns to equity holders are treated as a deduction from equity.
w Other liabilities Deferred income represents amounts received in advance z Other reserves of the Group providing services, and will be recognised as Revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale income in profit or loss when the services have been provided.
financial assets Trade creditors and accruals represent amounts the Group is The revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale due to pay to third parties in the normal course of business.
financial assets represents the unrealised change in These include expense accruals, which have been incurred, but the fair value of available-for-sale investments since not yet billed.
Accrued expenses are amounts that the Group initial recognition.
is due to pay to third parties in the normal course of business.
Cash flow hedge reserve x Share capital and share premium For derivatives designated in a cash flow hedge, the effective Share capital portion of changes in fair value is recognised in the cash flow The financial instruments issued by the Company are treated hedge reserve and recycled to profit or loss in the periods as equity i. e. forming part of shareholders funds only to the when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
extent that they meet the following two conditions: aa Contingent liabilities they include no contractual obligations upon the Company Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange depends upon the outcome of uncertain future events or financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under are present obligations where the outflows of resources conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group: and are uncertain or cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys are disclosed unless they are remote.
own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the ab Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity between market participants at the measurement date in the instruments.
principal, or in its absence, the most advantageous market to which the Group has access at that date.
The fair value To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of of a liability reflects its non-performance risk the risk the issue are classified as a financial liability.
Group will not fulfil an obligation, including the Groups own credit risk.
216 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued For the majority of instruments, fair value is determined with In the event that these estimates are revised at a later date, reference to quoted prices in an active market.
A market is a present value adjustment may be recognised in profit and regarded as active if transactions for the asset or liability take loss.
This adjustment includes an element that adjusts income place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing previously recognised, as well as an element that adjusts information on an ongoing basis.
for future interest not yet recognised.
Such adjustments can introduce significant volatility.
As such the EIR method Where quoted prices are not available, fair value is based upon introduces a source of estimation uncertainty.
Management cash flow models, which use wherever possible independently consider the most material risk of adjustment to be in relation sourced observable market parameters such as interest rate to the application of EIR to the Groups credit card portfolio.
yield curves, currency rates and option volatilities.
The chosen valuation technique incorporates all the factors that market The Group offers a range of credit card products.
Interest participants would take into account in pricing a transaction income is recorded under the EIR method, which provides and is discounted at a risk free rate.
a level yield over the life of the card.
Management model expected future cash flows over the estimated customer life, Refer to note 32 for a description of different levels within the restricted to a maximum of seven years, which is supported fair value hierarchy.
Levels are reviewed at each balance sheet by observed experience.
Income recognition can differ date and this determines whether transfers between levels significantly from actual cash receipts over that period.
Similarly, the selection of expected life for modelling purposes The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument also has a material bearing on the EIR rate used for each at initial recognition is normally the transaction price i. e. cohort.
A shorter modelling period results in a lower rate for the fair value of consideration given or received.
If the modelled period had been restricted does not apply a credit valuation adjustment CVA or to five years at origination, the profit for the year would have debit valuation adjustment DVA to reflect the credit risk been reduced by approximately 25.2 million in 2017 and of its derivative exposures as the Groups portfolio is fully 15.8 million in 2016. collateralised.
As at 31 December 2017 the EIR method gave rise to an If an asset or a liability measured at fair value has a bid price adjustment of 159.8 million 2016: 81.8 million to the and an ask price, the Group measures assets at bid price and balance sheet value of unsecured loans.
This adjustment liabilities at ask price.
represented 5.3% 2016: 3.3% of the balance sheet carrying value of unsecured loans.
The movement in the year of 1.10 Critical estimates and judgements 78.0 million was recognised as interest income.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires Management to make estimates and In the calculation of EIR, Management uses estimates and judgements in the application of accounting policies that assumptions of future customer behaviour.
These include the affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and estimation of utilisation of available credit, transaction and expense.
Estimates and judgements are based on historical repayment activity and the retention of the customer balance experience and Managements best knowledge of the amount.
after the end of a promotional period.
Should Managements Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates and current estimation of future cash flows be inaccurate to the judgements, actual results in future periods may be based on extent that the original effective interest rates on unsecured amounts which differ from those estimates.
lending cohorts were all reduced by 0.1%, the present value adjustment to interest income, in relation to the revised a Critical assumptions and sources of estimation future cash flows, would be approximately 10.2 million as at uncertainty 31 December 2017.
The following areas are the critical assumptions concerning the future and the key sources of estimation uncertainty in A significant proportion of the Groups credit card portfolio the reporting period.
These areas may have a significant risk includes customers within promotional periods.
The level of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of of repayment immediately post promotional period is a key assets and liabilities within the next financial year: sensitivity within the EIR assumptions.
There is evidence to support the expected behaviour of customers after the end Effective interest rates of promotional periods, however there is inherent risk that For financial instruments recorded at amortised cost, IAS39 this data may not be indicative of actual future behaviour.
If requires interest to be measured under the effective interest the proportion of customers who repay their balance postrate EIR method.
For the Group this includes interest promotion differs to Managements estimate it can have a income earned on mortgages and credit cards, as well as material impact on the revised future cash flows.
interest expense paid on wholesale liabilities.
The EIR rate is determined at inception based upon Managements best estimate of the future cash flows of the financial instrument.
Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 217 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies continued To illustrate this, Management have undertaken a sensitivity Fair value of financial assets and liabilities on post-promotion payment rates for all cohorts which are Management must use estimation when calculating the fair still within their promotional periods at the end of 2017.
For value of financial instruments categorised as level 2 and level these cohorts, should the payment rate be 10% higher than 3 as defined by IFRS 13.
In these instances the necessary forecast for the six months following end of promotion, valuation inputs are not observable and or specific factors Management estimate this would result in a negative present may need to be considered.
Details of the Groups level 2 and value adjustment to interest income of approximately 30.8 level 3 financial instruments are included in note 32. million as at 31 December 2017.
In such an adjustment, The most significant area of estimation uncertainty relates 11.5 million would relate to write-off of income previously to the Groups level 2 derivative financial instruments, recognised, and 19.3 million would adjust for future interest where valuations are not derived from quoted prices.
accuracy of fair value calculations would be affected by Impairment of loans and receivables unexpected market movements and any inaccuracies within Management must make a best estimate of losses incurred the discounted cash flow models used, particularly use of at the balance sheet date when determining the appropriate incorrect interest yield curves.
For example, to the extent the allowance for impairment of loans and receivables.
Judgement interest yield curve differed by - 10 bps, the net impact on is required when individually assessing loans for impairment fair values of derivative financial instruments would be an and significant estimation is required when using statistical estimated increase of 41.5 million 2016: 33.1 million or models for collective assessment.
The key assumptions decrease of 41.7 million 2016: 33.3 million respectively.
used within the statistical models are based on behavioural b Critical judgements in applying accounting policies and arrears status.
These variables include measurement The following are the critical judgements that have been made of probability of default, probability that default results in in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies that charge-off or possession, and any subsequent loss incurred have the most significant effect on the amount recognised in in that event.
In relation to measuring incurred loss the the financial statements: estimation of the period over which incurred losses emerge is Capitalisation of intangibles and assessment for also an area of estimation uncertainty.
impairment Management consider that the measurement of allowance Significant judgement is required when assessing whether the for impairment for a retail bank is a critical estimate.
Whilst conditions of IAS 38 have been met to allow the capitalisation the estimates used to determine the appropriate balance of project development costs as an intangible asset.
During sheet allowance are not currently considered to be a source the reporting period the Group has incurred significant costs of material uncertainty, it is acknowledged that the Group in relation to the development of the Groups digital banking has observed historically low levels of customer arrears and programme.
Following a detailed review of the programme default.
Material change in future customer behaviours and and the nature of the costs incurred, Management have unanticipated changes in the economic environment could determined that the amount of 38.3 million meets the result in higher losses being incurred in future periods.
recognition criteria for capitalisation as an intangible asset.
The most significant estimation within the measurement of Separately, Management judgement is required in assessing the secured impairment allowance is considered to be the whether capitalised intangible assets or assets not yet in use estimation of house prices.
To the extent that house prices exhibit any indicators of impairment at the reporting date.
differed adversely or positively by 10%, the impairment If there are indicators of impairment, an estimate of the allowance would be an estimated 1.7 million higher 2016: recoverable amount is made which may indicate the need for 1.3 million or 3.2 million lower 2016: 2.6 million at an impairment charge to be recognised.
Management have 31 December 2017. assessed and reviewed intangible assets for the existence of impairment indicators.
This exercise identified previous In relation to the measurement of the unsecured impairment software development, with a carrying value of 4.8 million, allowance, the estimation of the period over which incurred which was discontinued in the year in light of a strategic losses emerge is considered to be the most significant decision to consolidate activities within the digital banking estimation.
To the extent that the emergence period of six programme.
An impairment charge of 4.8 million was months differs by -3 months, the impairment allowance recognised in the financial statements 2016: nil.
would be an estimated 7.1 million higher 2016: 5.9 million or 7.1 million lower 2016: 5.9 million respectively.
