Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements 41.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments We estimate that the changes in measurement arising on the initial adoption of IFRS 9 results in a decrease in shareholders equity of approximately $1.1 billion, net of tax, at 1 January 2018 Company: approximately $7 million.
This will result in an increase in the Groups loan impairment provisions from $5.7 billion under IAS 39 to approximately $6.7 billion $0.2 billion of which is held in other liabilities against undrawn commitments and financial guarantees and an estimated gain of $35 million from changes in the classi cation and measurement of assets and liabilities under IFRS 9.
The impact on regulatory capital is set out in the Risk review and Capital review page 184.
The Group continues to re ne its expected credit loss models and embed its operational processes which may change the actual impact onadoption.
The estimated impact of the remeasurement and reclassi cations and the impact of the changes to the recognition and measurement of credit impairment loss allowances, net of the related tax impacts, is set out by category of reserve in the table below.
Share capital and Capital Fair value Parent share and Own credit Availablethrough Cash ow company Other Nonpremium merger adjustment for-sale OCI hedge Translation Retained shareholders equity controlling account reserves reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity instruments interests Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million As at 31 December 2017 7,097 17,129 54 83 45 4,454 26,641 46,505 4,961 341 51,807 Net impact of: 83 82 200 35 35 IFRS 9 reclassi cations 83 86 169 IFRS 9 remeasurements 4 31 35 35 Expected credit loss, net 65 1,296 1,231 8 1,239 Tax impact 6 182 176 176 Impact of IFRS 9 on share of joint ventures and associates, net of tax 1 51 52 52 Estimated IFRS 9 transition adjustments 83 24 965 1,072 8 1,080 As at 1 January 2018 7,097 17,129 54 24 45 4,454 25,676 45,433 4,961 333 50,727 The Group will publish an IFRS 9 transition report prior to the issuance of the first quarter 2018 Interim Management Statement.
This transition report will be unaudited and provide more extensive disclosures to explain the opening IFRS 9 adjustments and to provide a bridge from IAS 39 to IFRS 9.
In particular it will include further details in respect of: Quantitative information to reconcile impairment provisions, key risk metrics and the classi cation and measurement of financial instruments under IAS 39 to those under IFRS 9 The effect of IFRS 9 on signi cant accounting policies, credit risk policies and practices and related governance processes Explanation of the inputs, assumptions and estimation techniques used in determining expected credit losses and the key judgements made in applying IFRS 9 Qualitative information regarding volatility and areas of measurement uncertainty Supplementary quantitative information on credit risk and classi cation and measurement of financial instruments in IFRS 9 terms, including stage distribution and an analysis of credit quality and expected credit loss allowances coverage by stage and segment for the loan portfolio Classi cation and measurement of financial instruments IAS 39 There are four asset classi cations under IAS 39: fair value through pro t or loss FVTPL, incorporating trading and instruments designated at FVTPL: loans and receivables: held to maturity: and available-for-sale.
The classi cation of assets into these categories was determined based on a mix of management intent and product characteristics.
Only the available-for-sale category has no restrictions on classi cation.
In respect of hybrid financial assets, the embedded derivative component may be separated and measured at fair value, unless closely related to the host contract.
If this is not possible, the entire instrument must be designated at FVTPL.
Other instruments may be designated at FVTPL if they are managed on a fair value basis, or where the designation would eliminate or signi cantly reduce an accounting mismatch.
Standard Chartered 304 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and Capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 41.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments continued Classi cation and measurement of financial instruments continued IFRS 9 There are three measurement classi cations under IFRS 9: amortised cost, fair value through pro t or loss FVTPL and, for financial assets, fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
The existing IAS 39 financial asset categories are removed.
Financial assets are classi ed into these categories based on the business model within which they are held, and their contractual cash ow characteristics.
The business model re ects how groups of financial assets are managed to achieve a particular business objective.
Financial assets can only be held at amortised cost if the instruments are held in order to collect the contractual cash ows hold to collect, and where those contractual cash ows are solely payments of principal and interest SPPI.
Principal represents the fair value of the instrument at the time of initial recognition.
Interest in this context represents compensation for the time value of money and associated credit risks together with compensation for other risks and costs consistent with a basic lending arrangement and a pro t margin.
This requires an assessment at initial recognition of the contractual terms to determine whether it contains a term that could change the timing or amount of cash ows in a way that is inconsistent with the SPPI criteria.
Assets may be sold out of hold to collect portfolios where there is an increase in credit risk.
Disposals for other reasons are permitted but such sales should be insigni cant in value or infrequent in nature.
Financial asset debt instruments where the business model objectives are achieved by collecting the contractual cash ows and by selling the assets hold to collect and sell and that have SPPI cash ows are held at FVOCI, with unrealised gains or losses deferred in reserves until the asset is derecognised.
In certain circumstances, non-trading equity instruments can be irrevocably designated as FVOCI but both unrealised and realised gains or losses are recognised in reserves and no amounts other than dividends received are recognised in the income statement.
All other financial assets will mandatorily be held at FVTPL.
Financial assets may be designated at FVTPL only if doing so eliminates or reduces an accounting mismatch.
There has been no change to the requirements in respect of the classi cation and measurement of financial liabilities.
The Group adopted the changes related to the presentation of fair value changes on own credit in its 2016 financial statements.
The derecognition requirements have also been carried forward unchanged from IAS 39.
Where the contractual terms of financial assets are modi ed, and that modi cation does not result in derecognition, a modi cation gain or loss is recognised in the income statement and the gross carrying amount of the asset adjusted accordingly.
Transition impact The Group has assessed the business models that it operates across the Group.
In its assessment, the Group considered the objectives of the business model, how performance is measured and how staff are remunerated amongst other factors.
Where the objective of a business is to manage financial assets on a fair value basis, the instruments within that business model are measured at FVTPL.
This includes the Groups trading portfolios.
Most of the Groups loans to banks and customers are held within a hold to collect business model.
Investment debt securities held with Treasury Markets are held within a hold to collect and sell portfolio.
The majority of the remaining investment debt securities are held within a hold to collect business model.
For hold to collect portfolios, the level of sales and the reason for those sales is also monitored to ensure they are consistent with the characteristics of a hold to collect business model.
Instruments that do not meet the SPPI criteria are measured at FVTPL regardless of the business model in which they are held.
Other than hybrid financial assets, this primarily arises from prepayment clauses.
While prepayment clauses are common across the Groups loan portfolio, prepayment penalties are not considered to meet the SPPI criteria if the prepayment penalty received by the bank is not considered to be reasonable compensation from an IFRS 9 perspective for early termination of the contract.
This has impacted a small number of products in Retail Banking and a small number of contracts within the Corporate Finance Corporate Lending portfolios.
Non-trading equity investments are measured at FVTPL except for a small portfolio of strategic equity investments which are irrevocably designated at FVOCI.
Assets designated at FVTPL under IAS 39 that are not as a result of an accounting mismatch have been fide-designated and mandatorily classi ed as FVTPL either because they are managed on a fair value basis or cash ows are maximised through sale or part of a broader trading business or are hybrid financial assets.
There is no impact on the measurement of these instruments.
The Group has also elected on initial implementation of IFRS 9 to designate certain financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL in order to reduce or eliminate accounting mismatches: Loans and advances to customers, to reduce the impact of associated credit derivatives: and Sales and repurchase liabilities, where the related financial assets are now required to be accounted for at FVTPL 305 Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements 41.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments continued Transition impact continued Impact The estimated impact on retained earnings and reserves as a result of reclassi cation and re-measurement of financial assets and liabilities is approximately $35 million.
The amounts previously reported as part of the available-for-sale reserve have been reclassi ed either to the fair value through OCI reserve or to retained earnings.
Impairment of financial assets not held at FVTPL IAS 39 For debt instruments held at amortised cost or available-for-sale, speci c loss allowances are only recognised where there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events occurring after the initial recognition of the instrument.
This includes losses arising from credit related modi cations to the contractual terms such as forbearance.
For debt instruments held at amortised cost, where losses are known, by experience, to have been incurred but have not been separately identi ed, a portfolio impairment provision PIP is recognised.
The calculation of PIP is based on regulatory expected loss models, after adjustments made to align the calculation with IFRS, together with adjustments to take into account factors not adequately covered in the underlying models.
A PIP is not, however, recognised for available-for-sale instruments.
Impairment loss allowances are also not recognised for loan commitments and financial guarantees.
Where there is objective evidence of impairment for available-for-sale debt instruments, the entire unrealised loss held in reserves is transferred to the income statement and recognised as impairment.
For equity shares classi ed as available-for-sale, a signi cant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its cost is considered, among other factors, in assessing objective evidence of impairment.
On impairment, the entire unrealised loss held in reserves is transferred to the income statement and recognised as impairment.
See note 8 for further details on the IAS 39 accounting policy.
IFRS 9 A summary of the Groups approach to determining ECL is set out within note 40 to the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group primarily uses sophisticated models that utilise the probability of default PD, loss given default LGD and exposure at default EAD metrics, discounted using the effective interest rate.
For lower value, less complex portfolios in Retail Banking, the Group uses roll rate or loss rate models.
Expected credit losses are recognised for all financial debt instruments, loan commitments and financial guarantees that are classi ed as hold to collect hold to collect and sell and have cash ows that are solely payments of principal and interest.
Expected credit losses are not recognised for equity instruments designated at FVOCI.
An ECL allowance is recognised at the time of initial recognition for all financial instruments that are in the scope of ECL in respect of default events that may occur over the next 12 months so-called stage 1 assets with allowances equivalent to 12-months expected credit losses.
ECL continues to be determined on this basis until there is either a signi cant increase in credit risk SICR or the asset becomes credit impaired.
If a financial asset or portfolio of financial assets experiences an SICR since initial recognition, an ECL allowance is recognised for default events that may occur over the lifetime of the asset so-called stage 2 assets with loss allowances equivalent to lifetime expected credit losses.
SICR is assessed in the context of an increase in the risk of a default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument when compared with that expected at the time of initial recognition for the same period.
It is not assessed in the context of an increase in the expected credit loss.
The Group uses a number of qualitative and quantitative measures in assessing SICR.
Quantitative measures relate to the relative and absolute changes in the lifetime PD compared with those expected at initial recognition.
Qualitative factors include placement of loans on non-purely precautionary early alert, classi cation as higher risk CG 12 or where principal and or interest payments are 30 days or more past due.
An asset is only considered credit impaired, and lifetime expected credit losses recognised, if there is observed objective evidence of impairment.
These factors are similar to the indicators of objective evidence of impairment under IAS 39.
This includes, amongst other factors, assets in default, experiencing signi cant financial dif culty or subject to forbearance actions credit-impaired so-called stage 3 assets.
The fide nition of default is aligned to the regulatory fide nition within CRR Article 178 and considered to occur when an asset is 90 days or more past due on contractual payments of principal and or interest or is considered unlikely to pay without realisation of any collateral held.
To the extent that assets are credit-impaired at the point of initial recognition, they are classi ed as purchased or originated credit-impaired.
An expected credit loss allowance is not recognised at initial recognition.
Any changes in lifetime expected losses after initial recognition are charged or credited to the income statement through Impairment.
The measurement of expected credit losses across all stages is required to re ect an unbiased and probability weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of reasonably possible outcomes using reasonable and supportable information about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.
To account for the potential non-linearity in credit losses, multiple forward-looking scenarios are incorporated into the range of reasonably possible outcomes for all material portfolios.
The Group uses a Monte Carlo approach to simulate a set of 50 scenarios around the Groups central forecast to incorporate the potential non-linearity.
The period considered when measuring expected credit loss is the shorter of the expected life and the contractual term of the financial asset.
Standard Chartered 306 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and Capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 41.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments continued Impairment of financial assets not held at FVTPL continued The expected life may be impacted by prepayments and the maximum contractual term by extension options.
For certain revolving portfolios, including credit cards, the expected life is assessed over the period that the Group is exposed to credit risk which is based on the length of time it takes for credit facilities to be withdrawn rather than the contractual term.
For stage 3 financial assets, the determination of lifetime expected credit losses will be similar to the IAS 39 approach: for example, loan loss allowances within Corporate & Institutional Banking will be based on the present value of estimated future cash ows for individual clients.
The estimated cash ows will, however, be based on a probability range of scenarios.
Where the cash ows include realisable collateral, the values used will incorporate forward-looking information.
Where the contractual terms of a financial asset have been modi ed due to financial dif culties forbearance, for example and the asset has not been derecognised, a modi cation loss is recognised as part of Impairment in the income statement.
The loss represents the difference between the present value of the cash ows before and after the modi cation, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Unlike IAS 39, however, no loss allowance is recorded in the balance sheet, as the modi cation loss is offset against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
Modi cations for other reasons are accounted for in a similar way, except the modi cation gain or loss will be reported as part of income.
For assets measured at amortised cost, the balance sheet amount re ects the gross asset less the allowance for ECL.
For debt instruments held at FVOCI, the balance sheet amount re ects the instruments fair value, with the expected credit loss allowance held as a separate reserve within other comprehensive income.
ECL allowances on off-balance sheet instruments are held as liability provisions to the extent that the drawn and undrawn components of loan exposures can be separately identi ed.
Otherwise they will be reported against the drawn component.
Impact The estimated initial adoption of the ECL approach would reduce retained earnings and reserves by approximately $1.2 billion.
Approximately $1 billion of this estimate related to loans and advances to banks and customers and approximately $0.2 billion to undrawn commitments and financial guarantees which have been recognised in other liabilities and $65 million has been recognised in respect of debt securities, which has been offset through a credit to the FVOCI reserve.
The portfolios and products most impacted by the increase in loan loss allowances are Corporate Finance and Lending portfolios, due to the relatively longer maturity pro le, and unsecured products in Retail Banking.
Tax Tax of $176 million has been credited to reserves as a result of transition to IFRS 9.
Of this, deferred tax of $142 million has been credited to retained earnings, and is provided on additional deductible temporary differences that have arisen from loss provisions due to initial adoption of the ECL approach.
307 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Ahmed Nizar Jitesh Vijay Bulani Abhijit Sinha Lama Yammine Wil Thimister Standard Standard Standard Char Char Chart t te e ered red red 308 308 308 An An Ann n nu u ua a alll R R Re e ep p po o orrrttt 2 2 20 0 01 1 17 7 7
