248 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 35: Related party transactions continued of support services to the Foundation on a pro bono basis, Trademark licence fees paid to Virgin including use of facilities and employee time.
The estimated Enterprises Limited gift in kind for support services provided during the year was Licence fees are payable to Virgin Enterprises Limited for the 0.4 million 2016: 0.3 million.
use of the Virgin Money brand trademark.
Dividend payment to Virgin Group Holdings Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited Limited The Group receives credit card commissions and incurs air The Group made dividend payments totalling 8.4 million to mile charges to Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited VAA in Virgin Group Holdings Limited in the year which represented respect of an agreement between the two parties.
that companys proportionate share of the total final 2016 In June 2017 an agreement was signed with VAA which will dividend and the total interim 2017 dividend.
In the prior year, give rise to related party transactions in future periods.
An the Group made dividend payments totalling 7.3 million asset and liability has been recognised during the year in to Virgin Group Holdings Limited, which represented that relation to a committed payment under this agreement.
companys proportionate share of the total final 2015 dividend Donations to The Virgin Money Foundation and the total interim 2016 dividend.
the Foundation Other costs paid to Virgin Management The Group has made donations to the Foundation in both the Group Companies current and prior year to enable the Foundation to pursue its These costs include transactions with other companies in charitable objectives.
The Group has also provided a number the Virgin Group.
Note 36: Events after balance sheet date There have been no significant events between 31 December 2017 and the date of approval of the financial statements which would require a change or additional disclosure in the financial statements.
Note 37: Future accounting developments A number of new accounting standards and amendments to is based on the objectives of the entitys business model for accounting standards have been issued by the IASB, however managing its financial assets and the contractual cash flow are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by characteristics of the instruments.
IFRS 9 retains most of the the Group.
Those which may be relevant to the Group are existing classification requirements for financial liabilities.
In relation to Classification and Measurement, IFRS 9 will not result in a significant change to current asset and liability a IFRS 9 Financial instruments measurement bases.
The Groups debt security investment Effective 1 January 2018, EU endorsed on portfolio, which is classified as Available-for-Sale under 22November 2016 IAS 39, will be reclassified into the FVOCI category on Background 1 January 2018, with no change in measurement basis and In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 no impact to the Groups financial position.
The Groups Financial Instruments which replaces IAS 39 Financial small number of equity investments, which are classified as Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
This new Available-for-Sale under IAS 39, will be reclassified to either accounting standard is effective from 1 January 2018 and has FVOCI or FVTPL on a case by case basis, with no change in three core areas of change: Classification and Measurement: measurement basis.
The most significant impacts on the Group are from the changes to impairment.
Hedge Accounting The hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 are more closely Classification and Measurement aligned with risk management practices and follow a more The Classification and Measurement requirements of IFRS9 principle-based approach.
IFRS 9 includes an accounting require financial assets to be classified into one of three policy choice to maintain existing IAS 39 hedge accounting measurement categories, fair value through profit or loss rules until the IASB completes its project on macro hedging.
FVTPL, fair value through other comprehensive income The Group has decided to apply this accounting policy choice FVOCI and amortised cost.
For financial assets classification and will continue applying IAS 39 hedge accounting.
