Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Shareholder information Dividend and interest payment dates Final Ordinary shares dividend Results and dividend announced 27 February 2018 Ex dividend date 8 March UK 7 March HK 2018 Record date for dividend 9 March 2018 Last date to elect for share dividend or to change standing instructions 19 April 2018 Dividend payment date 17 May 2018 Preference shares 1st half yearly dividend 2nd half yearly dividend 738 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2018 1 October 2018 814 per cent Non-cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each 1 April 2018 1 October 2018 6.409 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2018 30 July 2018 7.014 per cent Non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each 30 January 2018 30 July 2018 Annual General Meeting Country-by-country reporting The Annual General Meeting AGM details are as follows: In accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements country-by-country reporting Regulations 2013, the Group will Date and time Location publish additional country-by-country information in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017, on or before 31 December 2018.
venues We have also published our approach to tax and tax policy.
11.00am London time 200 Aldersgate 6.00pm Hong Kong time St Pauls This information will be available on the Groups website at sc.
com London EC1A 4HD Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM are included in ShareCare the Notice of AGM.
ShareCare is available to shareholders on the Companys UK register Details of voting at the Companys AGM and of proxy votes cast who have a UK address and bank account, and allows you to hold can be found on the Companys website at investors.
com your Standard Chartered PLC shares in a nominee account.
Your shares will be held in electronic form so you will no longer have to Interim results worry about keeping your share certi cates safe.
If you join ShareCare you will still be invited to attend the Companys AGM and receive any The interim results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange, dividend at the same time as everyone else.
ShareCare is free to join The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, BSE Limited Bombay and there are no annual fees to pay.
Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited If you would like to receive more information, please visit our website at and put on the Companys website.
com shareholder or contact the shareholder helpline on 0370 702 0138.
The INR dividend is per Indian Depository Receipt 331 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Shareholder information Donating shares to ShareGift Electronic communications Shareholders who have a small number of shares often nd it If you hold your shares on the UK register and in future you would like uneconomical to sell them.
An alternative is to consider donating them to receive the Annual Report and Accounts electronically rather than to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686, which collects by post, please register online at: investorcentre.
Then click donations of unwanted shares until there are enough to sell, and uses on Register and follow the instructions.
You will need to have your the proceeds to support UK charities.
There is no implication for Shareholder or ShareCare reference number when you log on.
You Capital Gains Tax no gain or loss when you donate shares to charity, can nd this on your share certi cate or ShareCare statement.
Once and UK taxpayers may be able to claim income tax relief on the value registered you can also submit your proxy vote and dividend election of their donation.
electronically, and change your bank mandate or address information.
Further information can be obtained from Forward-looking statements the Companys registrars or from ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or from sharegift.
org This document may contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These forward-looking statements can be Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS identi ed by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current Dividends can be paid straight into your bank or building facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as may, society account.
could, will, expect, intend, estimate, anticipate, believe, plan, seek, continue or other words of similar meaning.
By their very Please register online at investorcentre.
co. uk or contact our registrar for a mandate form nature, such statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially Registrars and shareholder enquiries from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
Recipients should not place reliance on, and are cautioned about If you have any enquiries relating to your shareholding and you relying on, any forward-looking statements.
There are several factors hold your shares on the UK register, please contact our registrar which could cause actual results to differ materially from those Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater expressed or implied in forward-looking statements.
The factors that Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ or call the shareholder helpline number could cause actual results to differ materially from those described on 0370 702 0138. in the forward-looking statements include but are not limited to If you hold your shares on the Hong Kong branch register and you changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive, market have enquiries, please contact Computershare Hong Kong Investor and regulatory forces or conditions, future exchange and interest Services Limited, 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road rates, changes in tax rates, future business combinations or East, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.
dispositions and other factors speci c to the Group.
Any forwardlooking statement contained in this document is based on past or You can check your shareholding at computershare.
com hk investors current trends and or activities of the Group and should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue If you hold Indian Depository Receipts and you have enquiries, please in the future.
contact Karvy Computershare Private Limited, Karvy Selenium No statement in this document is intended to be a pro t forecast or to Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, imply that the earnings of the Group for the current year or future years Hyderabad 500032, India.
will necessarily match or exceed the historical or published earnings of the Group.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the Chinese translation date of the particular statement.
Except as required by any applicable laws or regulations, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation to If you would like a Chinese version of the 2017 Annual Report and revise or update any forward looking statement contained within this Accounts please contact Computershare Hong Kong Investor document, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a Services Limited, 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this document shall constitute, in any jurisdiction, an offer : or solicitation to sell or purchase any securities or other financial 18317M instruments, nor shall it constitute a recommendation or advice Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have asked to in respect of any securities or other financial instruments or any receive corporate communications in either Chinese or English can other matter.
change this election by contacting Computershare.
If there is a dispute between any translation and the English version of this Annual Report and Accounts, the English text shall prevail.
Taxation Information on taxation applying to dividends paid to you if you are a shareholder in the UK, Hong Kong or the US will be sent to you with your dividend documents.
Standard Chartered 332 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Major awards 2017 Banking awards Best Service Providers IFR Asia League Tables Euromoney Awards The Worlds Best Transaction Bank Bonds League Tables for Excellence Securities Services Hong Kong Providers 2017 Top bookrunners of Asia Best in Treasury & Working Paci c Securitisations Capital SMEs South Korea ex-Japan and Australia ex-A$ and CDOs Rank #1 Best Service Providers Trade Finance South Korea Best Bank for Markets The Asset Triple A Middle East Best Service Providers Treasury, Trade, Supply Best Global Custodian Asia Esolutions Partner Chain and Risk Best Global Custodian Africa South Korea Management Awards Best Subcustodian Best Service Providers Middle East Liquidity Management Taiwan Best Subcustodian Ghana Africa Best Bank for Markets Best Renminbi Bank Best Subcustodian India Best Bank in Zambia Hong Kong Best in Working Capital & Best Subcustodian Jordan Best Bank in Zimbabwe Best in Treasury & Cash Trade Finance South Asia Best Subcustodian Kenya Management ASEAN Global Transaction Best in Treasury & Working Best Subcustodian Bahrain Best Service Providers Banking Services Capital MNCs LLCs Structured Trade Finance Bangladesh Distinguished Provider Best Subcustodian Pakistan Indonesia Best Service Providers Best Service Providers GlobalCapital Bond Supply Chain Solutions Structured Trade Finance Awards Bangladesh Malaysia Best Service Providers Best Service Providers Esolutions Partner Transaction Banking Services Risk Management Malaysia Bangladesh EUR to EUR Best in Treasury & Working Best Service Providers Transaction Banking Services Capital MNCs LLCs Supply Chain Solutions India USD to USD Most Impressive FIG Issuer Vietnam of Capital Rank #1 Best Service Providers Transaction Banking Services Best in Treasury & Working Trade Finance India USD to EUR Most Impressive House for Capital FIs NBFIs Vietnam Middle Eastern Bonds Best Service Providers Best Service Providers The Innovators 2017 Rank #1 Supply Chain Solutions Transaction Bank Vietnam Sri Lanka Euromoney FX Survey Best in Treasury & Working Best Service Providers Cash Capital Best Structured Management Sri Lanka Trade Finance Bank Best Service Providers Best in Treasury & Working Trade Finance Intelligent Trade Finance Sri Lanka Capital Best Renminbi Overall Market Share OCR, Process Innovation Best in Treasury & Cash Liquidity Management Bank Currencies Rank #1 Trade Finance Intelligent Management MENA Best Service Providers Market Share Africa OCR, Process Innovation Best in Working Capital & Fis NBFIs Rank #1 Islamic Trade Finance MENA Best Service Providers Quality of Salesforce Asia Best in Treasury & Cash ECA Financing Rank #1 Management North Asia Renminbi Banker of the Year Most Improved by Region Best Service Providers Carmen Ling Asia Rank #1 Liquidity Management China Most Improved by Region Best Service Providers Middle East Rank #1 Liquidity Management Most Improved by Region Hong Kong Africa Rank #1 Most Improved by Institution Type Leveraged Funds Rank #1 333 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Major awards 2017 Banking awards continued Sustainability indices The Asset Triple A Global Custodian Agent The Stars of China Dow Jones Asset Servicing, Banks in Frontier Sustainability Index Fund Management & Markets Survey Investors Awards Bangladesh Market Outperformer Mauritius Market Best Bank for RMB Services Outperformer Best Bank for Commodities We were included in the Dow Mauritius Category Best Custody Specialist Jones Sustainability Index DJSI, Outperformer Best Bank for Corporate Africa World Index.
We were noted Social Responsibility Sri Lanka Market for our strong performance in Best Fund Administrator for Outperformer Best OBOR Initiative Foreign corporate governance, tax Retail Funds Vietnam strategy, environmental reporting, Sri Lanka Category Best Subcustodian Jordan The Asset Benchmark corporate citizenship and Outperformer Research Awards anti-crime policy and measures.
Best Subcustodian Korea Zambia Market Top Banks in Asian Outperformer Best Subcustodian Middle Currency Bonds FTSE4Good East Highly Commended Zimbabwe Market Outperformer Custodian Banker of the Year Margaret Hardwood-Jones, Zimbabwe Category Global Securities Services Outperformer Jordan Global Outperformer Worlds Best Treasury Top Bank in Government and Cash Management Jordan Category Bonds Offshore Rank #1 We were listed in the Outperformer Providers Top Bank in Corporate Bonds FTSE4Good Index.
The Tanzania Category Offshore Rank #1 FTSE4Good measures Outperformer the performance of companies that meet globally The Asset Triple A recognised corporate Asia Risk Awards 2017 Country Awards responsibility standards.
Best Bank for Payments and Collections Global CDP Best Bank for Working Capital Currency House of the Year Optimisation Asia-Paci c Best Bond Advisor Global, Clearing Bank of the Year Best Bank for Liquidity India Management Africa Commodities House of We participate in the CDP the Year Reporting awards Worlds Best Trade Climate questionnaire.
Finance Providers Asiamoney New Silk IR Society award for Best Road Finance Awards FTSE100 Annual Report 2016 Annual Report ICSA award for Risk Disclosure of the Year 2016 Annual Report Best Supply Chain Finance Best international Bank in Bank in Africa Southeast Asia for BRI Belt & Road Initiative Best Trade Finance Providers in Bangladesh Best Bank for BRI-related finance in Southeast Asia Standard Chartered 334 Annual Report 2017
