Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 25.
Contingent liabilities and commitments continued The table below shows the contract or underlying principal amounts and risk-weighted amounts of unmatured off-balance sheet transactions at the balance sheet date.
The contract or underlying principal amounts indicate the volume of business outstanding and do not represent amounts at risk.
2017 2016 $million $million Contingent liabilities 1 Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 37,311 32,286 1 Other contingent liabilities 6,210 6,016 1 43,521 38,302 Commitments Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 3,880 4,120 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 6 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend One year and over 43,730 38,108 Less than one year 20,160 17,547 Unconditionally cancellable 113,584 118,330 181,354 178,111 Capital commitments Contracted capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in these accounts 468 1,736 1 Total contingent liabilities of the Group have been restated from $37.4 billion to $38.3 billion increase of $0.9 billion.
Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit have been restated from $33.6 billion to $32.3 billion reduction of $1.3 billion, and other contingent liabilities have been restated from $3.8 billion to $6.0 billion offsetting increase of $2.2 billion The Groups share of contingent liabilities and commitments relating to joint ventures is $0.2 billion 31 December 2016: $0.2 billion.
The Group has committed to purchase 10 aircraft for delivery in 2018.
The total purchase commitment for these orders is $458 million.
Pre-delivery payments of $88.5 million have been made to date in respect of these aircraft.
As set out in note 26, the Group has contingent liabilities in respect of certain legal and regulatory matters for which it is not practicable to estimate the financial impact as there are many factors that may affect the range of possible outcomes.
Legal and regulatory matters Accounting policy Where appropriate, the Group recognises a provision for liabilities when it is probable that an out ow of economic resources embodying economic bene ts will be required and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
The uncertainties inherent in legal and regulatory matters affect the amount and timing of any potential out ows with respect to which provisions have been established.
Claims and other proceedings The Group receives legal claims against it in a number of jurisdictions and is a party to regulatory proceedings arising in the normal course of business.
Apart from the matters described below, the Group currently considers none of these claims or proceedings to be material.
2012 Settlements with certain US authorities In 2012, the Group reached settlements with certain US authorities regarding US sanctions compliance in the period 2001 to 2007, involving a Consent Order by the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS, a Cease and Desist Order by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Fed, Deferred Prosecution Agreements DPAs with each of the Department of Justice DOJ and the New York County District Attorneys Of ce DANY and a Settlement Agreement with the Of ce of Foreign Assets Control together, the Settlements and together the foregoing authorities, the US authorities.
In addition to the civil penalties totalling $667 million, the terms of these Settlements include a number of conditions and ongoing obligations with regard to improving sanctions, Anti-Money Laundering AML and Bank Secrecy Act BSA controls such as remediation programmes, reporting requirements, compliance reviews and programmes, banking transparency requirements, training measures, audit programmes, disclosure obligations and, in connection with the NYDFS Consent Order, the appointment of an independent monitor Monitor.
These obligations are managed under a programme of work referred to as the US Supervisory Remediation Program SRP.
The SRP comprises work streams designed to ensure compliance with the remediation requirements contained in all of the Settlements and the Group is engaged with all relevant authorities to implement these programmes and meet the Groups obligations under the Settlements.
On 9 December 2014, the Group announced that the DOJ, DANY and the Group had agreed to a three-year extension of the DPAs until 10 December 2017, resulting in the subsequent retention of the Monitor to evaluate and make recommendations regarding the Groups sanctions compliance programme.
On 9 November 2017, the Group announced the further extension of the DPAs until 28 July 2018.
The November 2017 DPA extension agreement noted that the Group had taken a number of steps and made signi cant progress to comply with the requirements of the DPA and enhance its sanctions compliance programme, but that the programme had not at the time reached the standard required by the DPA.
The Group is committed to ongoing cooperation with the authorities and to continuing to implement a comprehensive programme of improvements to its financial crime controls.
259 Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements 26.
Legal and regulatory matters continued Claims and other proceedings continued 2014 Settlement with NYDFS On 19 August 2014, the Group announced that it had reached a final settlement with the NYDFS regarding fide ciencies in the AML transaction surveillance system in its New York branch the Branch.
The system, which is separate from the sanctions screening process, is one part of the Groups overall financial crime controls and is designed to alert the Branch to unusual transaction patterns that require further investigation on a post-transaction basis.
The settlement provisions are summarised as follows: i A civil monetary penalty of $300 million ii Enhancements to the transaction surveillance system at the Branch iii A two-year extension to the term of the Monitor which, on 21 April 2017, was further extended to operate until 31 December 2018 iv A set of temporary remediation measures, which will remain in place until the transaction surveillance systems detection scenarios are operating to a standard approved by the Monitor.
These temporary remediation measures include a restriction on opening, without prior approval of the NYDFS, a US dollar demand deposit account for any client that does not already have such an account with the Branch, a restriction on US dollar-clearing services for certain clients in Hong Kong and enhanced monitoring of certain high-risk clients in the UAE.
The remit of the SRP covers the management of these obligations.
Other ongoing investigations and reviews The Group continues to cooperate with an investigation by the US authorities relating to historical violations of US sanctions laws and regulations.
In contrast to the 2012 settlements, which focused on the period before the Groups 2007 decision to stop doing new business with known Iranian parties, the ongoing investigation is focused on examining the extent to which conduct and control failures permitted clients with Iranian interests to conduct transactions through Standard Chartered Bank after 2007 and the extent to which any such failures were shared with relevant US authorities in 2012.
The Group is engaged in ongoing discussions with the relevant US authorities regarding the resolution of this investigation, and such resolution may involve a range of civil and criminal penalties for sanctions compliance violations including substantial monetary penalties combined with other compliance measures such as remediation requirements and or business restrictions.
Standard Chartered Bank is also engaged in ongoing discussions with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA regarding an investigation concerning its financial crime controls.
The investigation is looking at the effectiveness and governance of those controls within the correspondent banking business carried out by Standard Chartered Banks London branch, particularly in relation to the business carried on with respondent banks from outside the European Economic Area and the effectiveness and governance of those controls in one of Standard Chartered Banks overseas branches and the oversight exercised at Group level over those controls.
Any resolution of the investigation could involve a substantial monetary penalty and other civil measures available to the FCA.
As part of their remit to oversee market conduct, regulators and other agencies in certain markets are conducting investigations or requesting reviews into a number of areas of regulatory compliance and market conduct, including sales and trading, involving a range of financial products, and submissions made to set various market interest rates and other financial benchmarks, such as foreign exchange.
At relevant times, certain of the Groups branches and or subsidiaries were and are participants in some of those markets, in some cases submitting data to bodies that set such rates and other financial benchmarks and responding to inquiries and investigations by relevant authorities, and the Group is facing regulatory investigations and proceedings in various jurisdictions related to foreign exchange trading.
There may be penalties or other financial consequences to the Group as a result.
The Group is contributing to industry proposals to strengthen financial benchmarks processes in certain markets and continues to review its practices and processes in the light of the investigations, reviews and the industry proposals.
It is not practicable to estimate the financial impact of these matters as there are many factors that may affect the range of possible outcomes: however, the resulting financial impact could be substantial.
The Securities and Futures Commission SFC in Hong Kong has been investigating Standard Chartered Securities Hong Kong Limiteds SCSHK role as a joint sponsor of an initial public offering of China Forestry Holdings Limited, which was listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 2009.
The SFC is pursuing disciplinary action against SCSHK, and there may be financial consequences for SCSHK in connection with this action.
