Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary AT1 or Additional Tier 1 capital BCBS or Basel Committee on Constant currency Banking Supervision Additional Tier 1 capital consists of Constant currency change is derived by A forum on banking supervisory matters instruments with no xed maturity issued applying a simple translation of the previous which develops global supervisory standards by the bank and related share premium period functional currency number in each for the banking industry.
Its members are that meet the Basel III criteria for inclusion entity using the current average and period of cials from 45 central banks or prudential in total capital.
end US dollar exchange rates to the income supervisors from 28 countries and territories.
statement and balance sheet respectively.
Additional value adjustment BIPRU Contractual maturity See Prudent valuation adjustment.
The PRAs Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Contractual maturity refers to the final Advanced Internal Rating Based AIRB Building Societies and Investment Firms.
payment date of a loan or other financial approach instrument, at which point all the remaining CRD or Capital Requirements Directive The AIRB approach under the Basel II outstanding principal and interest is due to IV framework is used to calculate credit risk be paid.
The Capital Requirements Directive CRD capital based on the Groups own estimates and Capital Requirements Regulation CRR CIR or Cost to income ratio of certain parameters.
that implement the Basel III proposals in Represents the proportion of total operating Advances-to-deposits ADR ratio Europe.
expenses to total operating income.
The ratio of total loans and advances to Capital resources Countercyclical capital buffer customers relative to total customer Sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital after accounts.
A low advances-to-deposits ratio Regulatory Capital of up to 2.5 per cent of regulatory adjustments.
demonstrates that customer accounts risk-weighted assets in a given jurisdiction exceed customer loans resulting from that is required to be held under Basel III rules CGU or cash-generating unit emphasis placed on generating a high to ensure that banks build up surplus capital level of stable funding from customers.
The smallest identi able group of assets when macroeconomic conditions indicate that generates cash in ows that are largely excess credit growth.
ASEAN independent of the cash in ows from other assets or groups of assets.
Counterparty credit risk Association of South East Asian Nations ASEAN which includes the Groups The risk that counterparty defaults before Clawback operations in Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, satisfying its obligations under a contract.
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and An individual is required to pay back variable Vietnam.
remuneration to the Group under certain Cover ratio circumstances.
Represents the extent to which nonAUM or Assets under management performing loans are covered by CRE or Commercial real estate Total market value of assets such as impairment provisions.
deposits, securities and funds held by Includes of ce buildings, industrial property, the Group on behalf of the clients.
medical centres, hotels, malls, retail stores, CCF or Credit Conversion Factor shopping centres, farm land, multi-family An estimate of the amount the Group Basel II housing buildings, warehouses, garages, expects a customer to have drawn down and industrial properties.
Commercial real The capital adequacy framework issued by further on a facility limit at the point of default, estate loans are those backed by a package the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision either prescribed by BIPRU or modelled by of commercial real estate assets.
BCBS in June 2006 in the form of the the Group.
International Convergence of Capital CET1 Common Equity Tier 1 capital Measurement and Capital Standards.
CDS or credit default swaps CET1 capital consists of the common shares A credit derivative is an arrangement whereby Basel III issued by the Group and related share the credit risk of an asset the reference asset premium, retained earnings, accumulated Global framework issued by the BCBS in is transferred from the buyer to the seller of other comprehensive income and other December 2010, revised in June 2011, protection.
A credit default swap is a contract disclosed reserves, eligible non-controlling which sets regulatory standards on banks where the protection seller receives premium interests and regulatory adjustments required composition of capital, counterparty credit or interest-related payments in return for in the calculation of CET1.
risk, liquidity and leverage ratios.
The new contracting to make payments to the requirements will be phased in and fully protection buyer upon a fide ned credit event.
CET1 ratio implemented by 1 January 2019. Credit events normally include bankruptcy, A measure of the Groups CET1 capital as a payment default on a reference asset or Basis point bps percentage of risk-weighted assets under assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
One hundredth of a per cent 0.01 per cent : 100 basis points is 1 per cent.
335 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary Credit institutions DTL or deferred tax liability Eurozone An institution whose business is to receive Income taxes payable in future periods in Represents the 19 EU countries that have deposits or other repayable funds from respect of taxable temporary differences adopted the euro as their common currency.
the public and to grant credits for its between the accounting and tax base of Expected loss own account.
an asset or liability that will result in taxable amounts in future periods.
The Group measure of anticipated loss for Credit risk mitigation exposures captured under an internal fide ned bene t obligation Credit risk mitigation is a process to mitigate ratings-based credit risk approach for capital potential credit losses from any given The present value of expected future adequacy calculations.
It is measured as the account, customer or portfolio by using a payments required to settle the obligations Group-modelled view of anticipated loss range of tools such as collateral, netting of a fide ned bene t scheme resulting from based on Probability of Default, loss given agreements, credit insurance, credit employee service.
default and exposure at default, with a derivatives and other guarantees.
fide ned bene t scheme CVA or credit valuation adjustments Exposures Pension or other post-retirement bene t An adjustment to the fair value of derivative scheme other than a fide ned contribution Credit exposures represent the amount lent contracts that re ects the possibility that scheme.
to a customer, together with any undrawn the counterparty may default such that the commitments.
Group would not receive the full market value fide ned contribution scheme of the contracts.
EAD or exposure at default A pension or other post-retirement bene t scheme where the employers obligation The estimation of the extent to which the Customer accounts is limited to its contributions to the fund.
Group may be exposed to a customer or Money deposited by all individuals and counterparty in the event of, and at the time companies which are not credit institutions Delinquency of, that counterpartys default.
At default, the including securities sold under repurchase customer may not have drawn the loan fully A debt or other financial obligation is agreement see repo reverse repo.
Such or may already have repaid some of the considered to be in a state of delinquency funds are recorded as liabilities in the Groups principal, so that exposure is typically less when payments are overdue.
Loans and balance sheet under customer accounts.
than the approved loan limit.
advances are considered to be delinquent when consecutive payments are missed.
DVA or debit valuation adjustment ECAI or External Credit Assessment Also known as arrears.
Institutions An adjustment to the fair value of derivative contracts that re ect the possibility that the Deposits by banks For the standardised approach to credit risk Group may default and not pay the full market for sovereigns, corporate and institutions, Deposits by banks comprise amounts owed value of contracts.
external ratings are used to assign risk to other domestic or foreign credit institutions weights.
These external ratings must come by the Group including securities sold Debt securities from PRA approved rating agencies, known under repo.
as External Credit Assessment Institutions: Debt securities are assets on the Groups which are Moodys, Standard & Poors balance sheet and represent certi cates of Dividend per share and Fitch.
indebtedness of credit institutions, public Represents the entitlement of each bodies or other undertakings excluding shareholder in the share of the pro ts of the FCA or Financial Conduct Authority those issued by central banks.
Calculated in the lowest unit of The Financial Conduct Authority regulates currency in which the shares are quoted.
Debt securities in issue the conduct of financial rms and, for certain rms, prudential standards in the UK.
It has a Debt securities in issue are transferrable Effective tax rate strategic objective to ensure that the relevant certi cates of indebtedness of the Group The tax on pro t losses on ordinary activities markets function well.
to the bearer of the certi cate.
These are as a percentage of pro t loss on ordinary liabilities of the Group and include certi cates activities before taxation.
Forbearance takes place when a concession Encumbered assets DTA or deferred tax asset is made to the contractual terms of a loan in On-balance sheet assets pledged or used response to an obligors financial dif culties.
Income taxes recoverable in future periods in as collateral in respect of certain of the The Group classi es such modi ed loans respect of deductible temporary differences Groups liabilities.
as either Forborne not impaired loans or between the accounting and tax base of Loans subject to forbearance impaired.
an asset or liability that will result in tax EU or European Union Once a loan is categorised as either of these, deductible amounts in future periods, the The European Union EU is a political and it will remain in one of these two categories carry-forward of tax losses or the carryeconomic union of 28 member states that until the loan matures or satis es the curing forward of unused tax credits.
are located primarily in Europe.
conditions described in note 8 to the financial statements.
Standard Chartered 336 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Forborne not impaired loans Impaired loans IASB or International Accounting Standards Board Loans where the contractual terms have Loans where individual identi ed impairment An independent standard-setting body been modi ed due to financial dif culties of provisions have been raised and also include responsible for the development and the borrower, but the loan is not considered loans which are collateralised or where publication of IFRS, and approving to be impaired.
indebtedness has already been written down interpretations of IFRS standards that are to the expected realisable value.
The impaired Free deliveries recommended by the IFRS Interpretations loan category may include loans, which, Committee IFRIC.
while impaired, are still performing.
A transaction in which securities, foreign currencies or commodities have been paid Impairment provision IFRS or International Financial for before receiving them or where securities, Reporting Standards foreign currencies or commodities have been A provision held on the balance sheet as A set of international accounting standards delivered before receiving payment for them.
a result of the raising of a charge against developed and issued by the International pro t for an incurred loss.
An impairment Free funds Accounting Standards Board, consisting of provisions may either be identi ed or principles-based guidance contained within Free funds include equity capital, retained unidenti ed and individual speci c or IFRSs and IASs.
All companies that have reserves, current year unremitted pro ts and collective portfolio.
Underlying impairment issued publicly traded securities in the EU capital injections net of proposed dividends.
provisions exclude impairments which are are required to prepare annual and interim It does not include debt capital instruments, the consequence of the 2015 Strategic reports under IFRS and IAS standards that unrealised pro ts or losses or any nonReview and goodwill impairments.
have been endorsed by the EU.
A reconciliation between underlying and statutory earnings is contained in Note 2 IFRIC Funded unfunded exposures to the financial statements.
The IFRS Interpretations Committee supports Exposures where the notional amount of IIP or Individual impairment provisions the IASB in providing authoritative guidance the transaction is funded or unfunded.
on the accounting treatment of issues not Impairment that is measured for assets that Represents exposures where there is a speci cally dealt with by existing IFRSs are individually signi cant to the Group.
commitment to provide future funding is and IASs.
Typically assets within the Corporate & made but funds have been released Institutional Banking segment of the Group not released.
Investment grade are assessed individually.
A debt security, treasury bill or similar FVA or Funding valuation adjustments Interest rate risk instrument with a credit rating measured FVA re ects an adjustment to fair value in by external agencies of AAA to BBB.
The risk of an adverse impact on the respect of derivative contracts that re ect Groups income statement due to changes the funding costs that the market participant Leverage ratio in interest rates.
would incorporate when determining an A ratio introduced under CRD IV that exit price.
IRB approach or internal ratingscompares Tier 1 capital to total exposures, based approach including certain exposures held off balance G-SIBs or Global Systemically Important Banks sheet as adjusted by stipulated credit Used to calculate risk-weighted assets in conversion factors.
Intended to be a simple, accordance with the Basel Capital Accord Global financial institutions whose size, non-risk based backstop measure.
where capital requirements are based on a complexity and systemic interconnectedness rms own estimates of certain parameters.
mean that their distress or failure would cause Liquid Asset Ratio signi cant disruption to the wider financial IMA approach or internal model Ratio of total liquid assets to total assets.
The list of approach Liquid assets comprise cash less restricted G-SIBs is re-assessed through annual The approach used to calculate market risk balances, net interbank, treasury bills and re-scoring of banks and a triennial review capital and RWA with an internal market risk debt securities less illiquid securities.
model approved by the PRA under the terms G-SIB buffer of CRD IV CRR.
Liquidation portfolio A portfolio of assets which is beyond our A CET1 capital buffer which results from IAS or International Accounting current risk appetite metrics and is held designation as a G-SIB.
The G-SIB buffer is Standard for liquidation.
between 1% and 3.5%, depending on the A standard that forms part of the International allocation to one of five buckets based on the Financial Reporting Standards framework.
LCR or Liquidity Coverage Ratio annual scoring.
The G-SIB buffer is being phased in by 1 January 2019.
In the EU, the The ratio of the stock of high quality liquid G-SIB buffer is implemented via CRD IV as assets to expected net cash out ows over Global Systemically Important Institutions the following 30 days.
High quality liquid G-SII buffer requirement.
assets should be unencumbered, liquid in markets during a time of stress and, ideally, be central bank eligible.
337 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary Loans and advances MREL or minimum requirement for Normalised items own funds and eligible liabilities This represents lending made under bilateral See Underlying earnings.
A requirement under the Bank Recovery agreements with customers entered into in and Resolution Directive for EU resolution Operating expenses the normal course of business and is based authorities to set a minimum requirement for on the legal form of the instrument.
Staff and premises costs, general and own funds and eligible liabilities for banks.
administrative expenses, depreciation Loans to banks Similar to Total Loss Absorbing Capacity, and amortisation.
Underlying operating MREL is intended to ensure there is suf cient Amounts loaned to credit institutions expenses exclude expenses which are the equity and speci c types of liabilities to including securities bought under consequence of the 2015 Strategic Review.
facilitate an orderly resolution that minimises Reverse repo.
A reconciliation between underlying and any impact on financial stability and ensures statutory earnings is contained in Note 2 the continuity of critical functions and avoids LTV or loan-to-value ratio to the financial statements.
A calculation which expresses the amount Operating income or operating pro t of a first mortgage lien as a percentage of Net asset value NAV per share the total appraised value of real property.
Net interest, net fee and net trading income, Ratio of net assets total assets less total The loan-to-value ratio is used in determining as well as other operating income.
Underlying liabilities to the number of ordinary shares the appropriate level of risk for the loan and operating income represents the income outstanding at the end of a reporting period.
therefore the correct price of the loan to line items above, on an underlying basis.
Net exposure OTC or over-the-counter derivatives Loans past due The aggregate of loans and advances to customers loans and advances to banks A bilateral transaction e. g. derivatives that is Loans on which payments have been due for after impairment provisions, restricted not exchange traded and that is valued using up to a maximum of 90 days including those balances with central banks, derivatives net valuation models.
on which partial payments are being made.
of master netting agreements, investment OCA or own credit adjustment debt and equity securities, and letters of Loans subject to forbearance impaired credit and guarantees.
An adjustment to the Groups issued debt Loans where the terms have been designated at fair value through pro t or loss renegotiated on terms not consistent with NII or net interest income that re ects the possibility that the Group may current market levels due to financial The difference between interest received default and not pay the full market value of dif culties of the borrower.
Loans in on assets and interest paid on liabilities.
this category are necessarily impaired.
NIM or net interest margin Physical risks LGD or loss given default Net interest income divided by average The risk of increased extreme weather events interest earning assets.
including ood, drought and sea level rise.
The percentage of an exposure that a lender expects to lose in the event of obligor default.
NSFR or net stable funding ratio Pillar 1 Malus The ratio of available stable funding to The first pillar of the three pillars of Basel II required stable funding over a one year time Basel III which provides the approach An arrangement that permits the Group to horizon, assuming a stressed scenario.
It is to calculation of the minimum capital prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a longer-term liquidity measure designed to requirements for credit, market and an unvested variable remuneration award, restrain the amount of wholesale borrowing operational risk.
due to a speci c crystallised risk, behaviour, and encourage stable funding over a one conduct or adverse performance outcome.
Master netting agreement The second pillar of the three pillars of Basel NPLs or non-performing loans II Basel III which requires banks to undertake An agreement between two counterparties Any loan that is more than 90 days past due a comprehensive assessment of their risks that have multiple derivative contracts or is otherwise individually impaired, other and to determine the appropriate amounts of with each other that provides for the net than a loan which is: a renegotiated before capital to be held against these risks where settlement of all contracts through a single 90 days past due, and on which no default other suitable mitigants are not available.
payment, in a single currency, in the event in interest payments or loss of principal is of default on, or termination of, any one Pillar 3 expected: or b renegotiated at or after contract.
90 days past due, but on which there has The third pillar of the three pillars of Basel II been no default in interest or principal Mezzanine capital Basel III which 3 aims to provide a consistent payments for more than 180 days since and comprehensive disclosure framework Financing that combines debt and equity renegotiation, and against which no further that enhances comparability between banks characteristics.
For example, a loan that loss of principal is expected.
and further promotes improvements in also confers some pro t participation to risk practices.
Standard Chartered 338 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION PIP or portfolio impairment provisions Residential mortgage Senior debt Impairment assessment on a collective basis A loan to purchase a residential property Debt that takes priority over other unsecured for homogeneous groups of loans to cover which is then used as collateral to guarantee or otherwise more junior debt owed by the losses which have been incurred but have repayment of the loan.
Senior debt has greater seniority in the not yet been identi ed at the balance sheet the lender a lien against the property, and the issuers capital structure after subordinated date.
Typically Retail clients are assessed on lender can foreclose on the property if the debt.
In the event the issuer goes bankrupt, a portfolio basis.
borrower does not repay the loan per the senior debt theoretically must be repaid agreed terms.
before other creditors receive any payment.
Private equity investments RoE or Return on equity Sovereign exposures Equity securities in operating companies generally not quoted on a public exchange.
Represents the ratio of the current years Exposures to central governments and Investment in private equity often involves the pro t available for distribution to ordinary central government departments, central investment of capital in private companies.
shareholders to the weighted average banks and entities owned or guaranteed by Capital for private equity investment is raised ordinary shareholders equity for the reporting the aforementioned.
Sovereign exposures, as by retail or institutional investors and used period.
Underlying return on equity fide ned by the European Banking Authority, to fund investment strategies such as represents the ratio above using underlying include only exposures to central leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth earnings.
capital, distressed investments and RoRWA or return on risk-weighted Standardised approach mezzanine capital.
assets In relation to credit risk, a method for PD or Probability of default Pro t before tax for year as a percentage of calculating credit risk capital requirements PD is an internal estimate for each borrower RWA.
Pro t may be statutory or underlying using External Credit Assessment grade of the likelihood that an obligor will and is speci ed where used.
See RWA Institutions ECAI ratings and supervisory default on an obligation.
In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the operational RWA or risk-weighted assets Pro t loss attributable to ordinary capital requirement by the application of a shareholders supervisory fide ned percentage charge A measure of a banks assets adjusted for to the gross income of eight speci ed Pro t loss for the year after non-controlling their associated risks.
Risk weightings are business lines.
interests and dividends declared in respect established in accordance with the Basel of preference shares classi ed as equity.
Capital Accord as implemented by the PRA.
Structured note PVA or prudent valuation adjustment Risks-not-in-VaR RNIV An investment tool which pays a return linked to the value or level of a speci ed asset or A deduction from CET1 capital, to re ect A framework for identifying and quantifying index and sometimes offers capital protection the difference between fair value and marginal types of market risk that are not if the value declines.
Structured notes can prudent value positions, where the captured in the Value at Risk VaR measure be linked to equities, interest rates, funds, application of prudence results in a lower for any reason, such as being a far-tail risk commodities and foreign currency.
absolute carrying value than recognised in or the necessary historical market data not the financial statements.
Subordinated liabilities PRA or Prudential Regulation Authority Secured fully and partially Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to The Prudential Regulation Authority is the A secured loan is a loan in which the the claims of depositors and other creditors statutory body responsible for the prudential borrower pledges an asset as collateral for of the issuer.
supervision of banks, building societies, a loan which, in the event that the borrower credit unions, insurers and a small number defaults, the Group is able to take possession Tier 1 capital of signi cant investment rms in the UK.
All secured loans are considered fully The PRA is a part of the Bank of England.
secured if the fair value of the collateral is The sum of Common Equity Tier 1 capital equal to or greater than the loan at the time and Additional Tier 1 capital.
Repo reverse repo of origination.
All other secured loans are considered to be partly secured.
Tier 1 capital ratio A repurchase agreement or repo is a short-term funding agreement, which allows Tier 1 capital as a percentage of riskSecuritisation a borrower to sell a financial asset, such as weighted assets.
asset backed securities or Government Securitisation is a process by which debt bonds as collateral for cash.
As part of instruments are aggregated into a pool, which Tier 2 capital the agreement the borrower agrees to is used to back new securities.
A company Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying repurchase the security at some later date, sells assets to a special purpose entity SPE subordinated liabilities, allowable portfolio usually less than 30 days, repaying the which then issues securities backed by the impairment provisions and unrealised gains proceeds of the loan.
For the party on the assets based on their value.
This allows the in the eligible revaluation reserves arising other end of the transaction buying the credit quality of the assets to be separated from the fair valuation of equity instruments security and agreeing to sell in the future from the credit rating of the original company held as available-for-sale.
it is a reverse repurchase agreement or and transfers risk to external investors.
339 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary TLAC or Total Loss Absorbing Capacity VaR or Value at Risk A standard which recommends that GSIBs An estimate of the potential loss which might hold suf cient equity and speci ed liabilities arise from market movements under normal which can be used to absorb losses and market conditions, if the current positions recapitalise a bank in resolution.
It is intended were to be held unchanged for one business to facilitate an orderly resolution that day, measured to a con dence level of minimises any impact on financial stability, 97.5 per cent.
ensures the continuity of critical functions, ViU or Value-in-Use and avoids exposing taxpayers to loss.
The present value of the future expected TSR or Total shareholder return cash ows expected to be derived from an The total return of the Groups equity share asset or CGU.
price growth and dividends to investors.
Writedowns Transition risks After an advance has been identi ed as The risk of changes to market dynamics or impaired and is subject to an impairment sectoral economics due to governments provision, the stage may be reached whereby response to climate change.
it is concluded that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery.
Writedowns will UK bank levy occur when and to the extent that, the whole or part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
A levy that applies to certain UK banks and the UK operations of foreign banks The levy XVA is payable each year based on a percentage of the chargeable equities and liabilities on The term used to incorporate credit, debit the Groups consolidated balance sheet date.
and funding valuation adjustments to the Key exclusions from chargeable equities and fair value of derivative financial instruments.
liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured or See CVA, DVA and FVA.
guaranteed retail deposits, repos secured on certain sovereign debt and liabilities subject to netting.
Underlying earnings The Groups statutory performance adjusted for pro ts or losses of a capital nature: amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent: and other infrequent and or exceptional transactions that are signi cant or material in the context of the Groups normal business earnings for the period, and items which management and investors would ordinarily identify separately when assessing performance period-by-period.
A reconciliation between underlying and statutory performance is contained in Note 2 to the financial statements.
Standard Chartered 340 Annual Report 2017 Designed and produced by Friend This document is printed on Revive 50 silk, Standard Chartered PLC.
com a paper containing 50% recycled bre 25% All rights reserved.
post-consumer and 25% pre-consumer and Printed by Park Communications on The STANDARD CHARTERED word mark, 50% virgin bre sourced from well-managed, FSC certi ed paper.
its logo device and associated product brand responsible, FSC certi ed forests.
The pulp names are owned by Standard Chartered Park is an EMAS certi ed company and used in this product is bleached using an PLC and centrally licensed to its operating its Environmental Management System elemental chlorine free ECF process.
This document is fully recyclable.
Registered Of ce: 1 Basinghall Avenue, 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil London EC2V 5DD.
based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled Telephone 44 0 20 7885 8888. for further use and, on average, 99% of any Principal place of business in Hong Kong: waste associated with this production will 32nd Floor, 4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central, be recycled.
CONTACT INFORMATION Global headquarters Standard Chartered Group 1 Basinghall Avenue London, EC2V 5DD United Kingdom telephone: 44 0 20 7885 8888 facsimile: 44 0 20 7885 9999 Digital Annual Report and Accounts sc.
com annualreport Shareholder enquiries ShareCare information investors.
com shareholder 0370 702 0138 ShareGift information sharegift.
org 020 7930 3737 Registrar information UK Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol, BS99 6ZZ 0370 702 0138 Hong Kong Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre 183 Queens Road East Wan Chai Hong Kong computershare.
com hk investors Indian Depository Receipts Karvy Computershare Private Limited Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32 Gachibowli, Financial District Nanakramguda Hyderabad 500032, India Chinese translation Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited 17M Floor, Hopewell Centre 183 Queens Road East Wan Chai Hong Kong Register for electronic communications investorcentre.
LN HKSE Stock code: 02888 BSE NSE Stock code: STAN.
