Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Statement of compliance b From the start of Principal risks page 165 to the end of Capital and Liquidity risk page 172, excluding Country risk page 168 The Group financial statements consolidate Standard Chartered PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the c From the start of the CRD IV capital base section page 185 to the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates and end of Movement in total capital section page 186 jointly controlled entities.
Basis of preparation The parent company financial statements present information about The consolidated and Company financial statements have been the Company as a separate entity.
prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost Both the parent company financial statements and the Group convention, as modi ed by the revaluation of cash-settled sharefinancial statements have been prepared and approved by the based payments, available-for-sale assets, and financial assets and directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting liabilities including derivatives at fair value through pro t or loss.
Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations as endorsed by the European Union EU.
EU-endorsed IFRS may Signi cant accounting estimates and judgements differ from IFRS published by the International Accounting Standards In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities, Board IASB if a standard has not been endorsed by the EU.
the Group makes assumptions of the effects of uncertain future The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 events on those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual statement of The Groups estimates and assumptions are based on historical comprehensive income and related notes that form a part of these experience and expectation of future events and are reviewed financial statements.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty and The following parts of the Risk review and Capital review form part of judgement, are set out in the relevant disclosure notes for the these financial statements: following areas: a From the start of Risk pro le section page 122 to the end of Top Impairment of loans and advances note 8 risks and emerging risks in the same section page 159 excluding: Taxation note 10 Asset backed securities page 145 Valuation of financial instruments held at fair value note 13 Country risk page 146 Goodwill impairment note 18 Market risk changes risks not in value at risk page 148 Provisions for liabilities and charges note 24 Market risk changes backtesting page 148 Retirement bene t obligations note 30 Mapping of market risk items to the balance sheet page 149 Investments in associates and joint ventures note 32 Stressed coverage and liquidity coverage ratio page 151 Net stable funding ratio page 152 Liquidity pool page 152 Encumbrance page 153 to 154 Earnings sensitivity page 157 Operational risk page 158 Standard Chartered 208 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 1.
Accounting policies continued IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements Transactions and balances As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation of the Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional differences in accounting practices between EU-endorsed IFRS currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction date.
and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards is required to be Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of disclosed.
There would be no signi cant differences had these such transactions, and from the translation at year-end exchange accounts been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Reporting Standards.
currencies, are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at historical exchange rates if held Comparatives at historical cost, or year-end exchange rates if held at fair value, and the resulting foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in Certain comparatives have been changed to comply with current either the income statement or shareholders equity depending on year disclosures.
the treatment of the gain or loss on the asset or liability.
Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements including other similar secured lending and borrowing have been separated from Foreign currency translation loans and advances to banks and customers and deposits by banks The results and financial position of all the entities included in the and customer accounts on the balance sheet.
Group financial statements that have a functional currency different Details of these changes are set out in the relevant notes below: from the Groups presentation currency are accounted for as follows: Liquidity and funding risk pages 150 to 152 Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date Note 13 Financial instruments Income and expenses for each income statement are translated Note 15 Investment securities at average exchange rates or at rates on the date of the Note 18 Goodwill and intangible assets transaction where exchange rates uctuate signi cantly Note 25 Contingent liabilities and commitments All resulting exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of equity Note 27 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation Note 33 Structured entities of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other These changes have not resulted in any amendments to the currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, reported income statement or balance sheet of the Group.
are taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is sold or capital repatriated they are recognised in the income New accounting standards adopted by the Group statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are There were no new standards applied during the year ended treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at 31 December 2017. the closing rate.
The accounting policies used by the Group are detailed in the relevant note to the financial statements, except those set out below.
New accounting standards in issue but not yet effective All have been applied consistently across the Group and to all years The following new standards are effective for periods beginning on presented in these financial statements.
or after 1 January 2018 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements: Foreign currencies Items included in the Group financial statements for each of the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014 and has an effective date of economic environment in which the entity operates the functional 1 January 2018.
It was endorsed by the EU in November 2016. currency of that entity.
Both the Group and Company financial statements are presented in millions of US dollars $ million, which In October 2017, the IASB published an amendment to IFRS 9, is the functional and presentation currency of the Company and Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation, which is the presentation currency of the Group.
effective from 1 January 2019, with earlier application permitted.
