Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements 7.
Operating expenses continued 2017 2016 $million $million Premises and equipment expenses: Rental of premises 379 400 Other premises and equipment costs 427 379 Rental of computers and equipment 17 18 823 797 General administrative expenses: UK bank levy 220 383 Other general administrative expenses 1,787 1,989 2,007 2,372 Depreciation and amortisation: Property, plant and equipment note 19 : Premises 85 98 Equipment 85 84 Operating lease assets 328 271 498 453 Intangibles note 18 : Software 320 272 Acquired on business combinations 11 14 829 739 The UK bank levy is applied on the chargeable equities and liabilities on the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Key exclusions from chargeable equities and liabilities include Tier 1 capital, insured or guaranteed retail deposits, repos secured on certain sovereign debt and liabilities subject to netting.
The 2017 charge was lower than expected after updating estimates made in previous years.
The rate of the levy for 2017 is the blended rate of 0.17 per cent for chargeable short-term liabilities, with a lower rate of 0.085 per cent generally applied to chargeable equity and long-term liabilities i. e. liabilities with a remaining maturity greater than one year.
The rates will be gradually reduced over the next five years, from 1 January 2021 they will be 0.10 per cent for short-term liabilities and 0.05 per cent for long-term liabilities.
In addition, the scope of the bank levy will be restricted to the balance sheet of UK operations only from thatdate.
Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions Accounting policy Signifi cant accounting estimates and judgements The calculation of impairment involves key judgements to be made by the Group: Loan loss provisions are managements best estimate of incurred loss in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date.
Management has to exercise judgement in making assumptions and estimates of the loan portfolio on both individually and collectively assessed loan and advances For individually signi cant financial assets, the Group will consider judgements that have an impact on the expected future cash ows of the asset.
These include: the business prospects, industry and geopolitical climate of the customer, quality of realisable value of collateral, the Groups legal position relative to other claimants and any renegotiation forbearance options.
Many of the key judgement factors have a degree of interdependency, therefore a higher level of judgement is required for loans to borrowers showing signs of financial dif culty failure to pay in market sectors experiencing economic stress, particularly where the likelihood of repayment is affected by the ability of the client to re finance or sell a speci ed asset The difference between the loan carrying amount and the discounted expected future cash ows will result in the impairment amount.
The future cash ow calculation involves signi cant judgements and estimates.
As new information becomes available and further negotiations forbearance measures are taken, the estimates of the future cash ows will be revised, and will have an impact on the future cash ow analysis For financial assets which are not individually signi cant, such as the Retail Banking portfolio or small business loans, which comprise a large number of homogenous loans that share similar characteristics, statistical estimates and techniques are used, as well as credit scoring analysis.
These techniques use models which analyse historical repayment and default rates over a time horizon.
Where various models are used, managements judgement is required to analyse the available information provided and to select the appropriate model or combination of models to use.
Further judgement is required to determine whether the current economic climate, behavioural and credit conditions are such that the actual level of incurred losses, and losses inherent in the collective portfolio is likely to be greater or less than historical experience, and is not fully re ective in the allowance estimated through the use of statistical models and historical data.
Factors are applied in different geographical regions and countries to re ect local economic conditions, geopolitical risk, laws and regulations e. g. new industry debt relief programme, credit bureau data, analysis of credit grade migration and delinquency trends.
Further judgement is required to determine overlays on the models described below in Retail Banking Standard Chartered 218 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 8.
Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions continued Objective evidence of impairment The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events occurring after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event, and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
The Group considers the following factors in assessing objective evidence of impairment: Whether the counterparty is in default of principal or interest payments the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial dif culties signi cant financial dif culty of the issuer or obligor When a counterparty les for bankruptcy protection or the local equivalent and this would avoid or delay discharge of its obligation Where the Group les to have the counterparty declared bankrupt or les a similar order in respect of a credit obligation Where the Group consents to a restructuring of the obligation, resulting in a diminished financial obligation, demonstrated by a material forgiveness of debt or postponement of scheduled payments Where the Group sells a credit obligation at a material credit-related economic loss: or where there is observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash ows of a group of financial assets, although the decrease cannot yet be identi ed with speci c individual financial assets Assets at amortised cost Corporate & Institutional Banking and Commercial Banking The assessment of the credit risk of corporate and commercial loans is done by the Credit Risk department, based upon counterparty information they receive from various sources including relationship managers and on external market information, or as soon as payment of interest or principal is 90 days overdue.
Once a loan starts to exhibit credit deterioration, it will move along the credit grading scale in the performing book and when it is classi ed as Credit Grade CG 12 as fide ned in the Risk review and Capital review page 125, the credit assessment and oversight of the loan will be performed by Group Special Asset Management GSAM.
Where GSAMs assessment indicates that a loan is impaired, GSAM will calculate an Individual Impairment Provision IIP based on estimated cash ows revised to re ect anticipated recoveries.
GSAMs assessment and calculation of impairment involves a signi cant level of judgement.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a loan and receivable or a held-to-maturity asset has occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
If a loan and receivable or held-to-maturity asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract.
As a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment on the basis of an instruments fair value using an observable market price.
The individual circumstances of each client are taken into account when GSAM estimates future cash ows.
All available sources, such as cash ow arising from operations, selling assets or subsidiaries, realising collateral or payments under guarantees are considered.
In any decision relating to the raising of provisions, the Group attempts to balance economic conditions, local knowledge and experience, and the results of independent asset reviews.
The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash ows of a collateralised financial asset re ects the cash ows that may result from foreclosure, less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
Further details on collateral held by the Group is discussed in the Risk review and Capital review pages 138 to 141.
In cases where the impairment assessment indicates that there will be a loss of principal, the loan is graded CG 14 while other impaired loans will be graded CG 13.
Loans graded CG 13CG 14 are classi ed as non-performing loans.
The performing loan portfolio is subject to a Portfolio Impairment Provision PIP to cover latent losses i. e. those that are not speci cally identi ed but are known, by experience, to be present in any performing portfolio.
The PIP is based on models using risk sizing including probability of default and loss given default, environmental parameters and exceptional adjustment overlays.
The calculation of the PIP uses regulatory expected credit loss ECL models.
ECL is subject to an emergence risk factor that is generally understood as the hypothetical amount of time between a loss event occurrence and the bank recognition of impairment.
The emergence risk factor is the principal means of translating a risk position to an impairment estimate, and the main scaling factor to adjust the conservative regulatory Expected Loss to an effective PIP level, as the regulatory ECL models are more punitive than the incurred loss model under IAS 39.
On a portfolio basis, the emergence risk factor ranges between 2 and 3 months based on structural economic drivers that might in uence the accurate and timely discovery of credit issues in each country.
219 Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements 8.
Impairment losses on loans and advances and other credit risk provisions continued Retail Banking An IIP is recognised for Retail Banking when an account meets a fide ned threshold condition in terms of overdue payments contractual default or meets other objective conditions such as bankruptcy, debt restructuring, fraud or death as further described above in the assessment factors.
The threshold conditions are set at the point where empirical evidence suggests that the client is unlikely to meet their contractual obligations or a loss of principal is expected.
A credit obligation in Retail Banking clients portfolio that is more than 150 Days Past Due DPD or, a credit obligation secured by Wealth Management products that is 90 DPD, is recognised as impaired and IIP is provided for accordingly.
There are, however, exceptions to this rule for portfolios where empirical evidence suggests that they should be set more conservatively.
In addition, the credit account is recognised as impaired immediately if the borrower les for bankruptcy or other equivalent forbearance programme, or the borrower is deceased, or the business is closed in the case of small business clients, or the borrowers other credit accounts with the Group are impaired.
The core components of the IIP calculation are the value of gross charge-off and recoveries.
Gross charge-off and or provisions are recognised when it is established that the account is unlikely to pay.
Recovery of unsecured debt post-impairment is recognised based on actual cash collected, either directly from clients or through the sale of defaulted loans to third-party institutions.
Provision release of secured loans post-impairment is recognised if the loan outstanding is paid in full release of full provision, or the provision is higher than the loan outstanding release of the excess provision, or the loan is paid to current and remains in current for more than 180 days release of full provision.
Retail Banking PIP, covering the inherent losses in the portfolio that exist at the balance sheet date but have not been individually identi ed, is computed on performing loans no IIP, using EL rates, to determine latent losses in the portfolio.
The EL utilises probability of default and loss given default inherent within the portfolio of impaired loans or receivables and the historical loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics similar to those in the Group.
For defaulted yet non-impaired accounts greater than 90 days past due full EL is used, while for non-defaulted accounts, a three month emergence period is applied.
An adjustment is added to the PIP calculation to take into the account instances where the EL-based PIP is deemed imprecise due to under-prediction or over-prediction of EL by underlying models.
An overlay in the form of Special Risk Adjustment SRA is added to the EL-based PIP calculation to take into account instances where EL-based PIP is deemed insuf cient to incorporate the impact of a speci c credit event.
An overlay in the form of Business Cycle Adjustment BCA is taken to account for the impact of cyclical volatility in the operating environment, which is not adequately covered in the underlying models.
The assessment and calculation of the Retail Banking IIP and PIP involve a signi cant level of judgement.
Write-off and reversal of impairment To the extent a loan is irrecoverable, it is written off against the related provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the necessary procedures have been completed, it is decided that there is no realistic probability of recovery and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of the provision for loan impairment in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
The amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement during the period.
Forborne loans A forborne loan arises when a concession has been made to the contractual terms of a loan in response to a customers financial dif culties.
In certain circumstances, the Group may renegotiate client loans.
Loans that are renegotiated for commercial reasons, such as when a client had a credit rating upgrade, are not included as part of forborne loans because they are not indicative of any credit stress or event.
Forbearance strategies assist clients who are temporarily in financial distress and are unable to meet their original contractual repayment terms.
Forbearance can be initiated by the client, the Bank or a third party including government-sponsored programmes or a conglomerate of credit institutions and includes debt restructuring such as a new repayment schedule, payment deferrals, tenor extensions and interestonly payments.
Loans that are renegotiated on terms that are not consistent with those readily available in the market and or where we have granted a concession compared with the original terms of the loans, are considered for impairment.
If the terms of the renegotiation are such that, where the present value of the new cash ows is lower than the present value of the original cash ows, the loan would be considered to be impaired and, at a minimum, a discount provision would be raised and are disclosed as Loans subject to forbearance impaired, which is a subset of impaired loans.
All other loans that have been subject to a forbearance contract amendment, but which are not considered impaired not classi ed as CG 13 or 14 are classi ed as Forborne not impaired previously disclosed as other renegotiated loans.
If a loan enters the forbearance process and the terms are substantially modi ed, the original loan will be derecognised, and a new loan will be recognised.
For Retail Banking clients, all forborne loans are managed within a separate portfolio.
If such loans subsequently become past due, charge-off and IIP is accelerated to 90 days past due for unsecured loans and automobile finance or 120 days past due for secured loans.
The accelerated loss rates applied to this portfolio are derived from experience with other forborne loans, rather than the Retail Banking clients portfolio as a whole, to recognise the greater degree of inherent risk.
For Corporate & Institutional Banking, Commercial Banking and Private Banking clients, forbearance is applied on a case-by-case basis and is not subject to business-wide programmes.
In some cases, the asset is derecognised and a new loan is granted as part of the restructure.
n others, the contractual terms and repayment of the existing loans are changed or extended for example, interest only for a period.
I Loans classi ed as subject to forbearance are managed by GSAM and are kept under close review to assess the clients ability to adhere to the restructured repayment strategy and to identify any events that could result in a deterioration in the clients ability to repay.
