Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements 24.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Accounting policy The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or constructive obligation resulting from a past event when it is more likely than not that it will be required to transfer economic bene ts to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Where a liability arises based on participation in a market at a speci ed date, the obligation is recognised in the financial statements on that date and is not accrued over the period.
Signifi cant accounting estimates and judgements The recognition and measurement of provisions for liabilities and charges requires signi cant judgement and the use of estimates about uncertain future conditions or events.
Determining the best estimate of the probability of out ow of economic resources, cost of settling a provision and timing of settlement, requires signi cant judgement by management.
These areas are inherently uncertain such as legal decisions, outcome of regulator reviews and anticipated cost of redress.
2017 2016 Provision Provision for credit Other for credit Other commitments provisions Total commitments provisions Total $million $million $million $million $million $million At 1 January 109 104 213 100 115 215 Exchange translation differences 2 1 1 2 2 4 Release charge against pro t 23 83 60 45 37 82 Provisions utilised 1 88 89 34 46 80 At 31 December 83 100 183 109 104 213 Provision for credit commitment comprises those undrawn contractually committed facilities where there is doubt as to the borrowers ability to meet their repayment obligations.
Other provisions consists mainly of provisions for regulatory settlements and legal claims, the nature of which are described in note 26.
Contingent liabilities and commitments Accounting policy Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events, whose existence will be con rmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations arising from past events that are not recognised because either an out ow of economic bene ts is not probable or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised but information about them is disclosed unless the possibility of any out ow of economic bene ts in settlement is remote.
Where the Group undertakes to make a payment on behalf of its customers for guarantees issued such as for performance bonds or as irrevocable letters of credit as part of the Groups Transaction Banking business for which an obligation to make a payment has not arisen at the reporting date those are included in these financial statements as contingent liabilities.
Other contingent liabilities primarily include revocable letters of credit and bonds issued on behalf of customers to customs of cials, for bids or offers and as shipping guarantees.
Commitments are where the Group has con rmed its intention to provide funds to a customer or on behalf of a customer in the form of loans, overdrafts, future guarantees whether cancellable or not or letters of credit and the Group has not made payments at the balance sheet date, those instruments are included in these financial statement as commitments.
Capital commitments are contractual commitments the Group has entered into to purchase nonfinancial assets.
