254 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Notes to the Parent Company financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation 1.1 Basis of preparation and accounting policies The financial statements of Virgin Money Holdings UK Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on plc, the Parent Company, the Company, which should be an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are read in conjunction with the Group Directors Report, have recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance and in any future periods affected.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as 1.3 Accounting policies adopted by the EU including interpretations issued by the The accounting policies of the Company are the same as those IFRS Interpretations Committee and with those parts of the of the Group which are set out in note 1 of the consolidated Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under financial statements except that the Company has no policy IFRS.
No individual statement of comprehensive income is in respect of consolidation and the Group has no policy in presented for the Company, as permitted by Section 408 of respect of investments in related undertakings.
Investments in related undertakings are recognised at 1.2 Basis of measurement historical cost, less any provision for impairment.
They are The financial statements have been prepared under the reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of there are indications that the investment may be impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with carrying amount of the investment exceeds its recoverable IFRS requires Management to make judgements, estimates amount, which is defined as the higher of its fair value less and assumptions that affect the application of accounting costs of disposal or its value in use.
policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income These accounting policies have been applied consistently to all and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
years presented in these financial statements.
Note 2: Investment in related undertakings 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 1,370.4 1,127.6 Increase in investment in subsidiary undertaking 21.0 Decrease in investment in subsidiary undertaking 21.0 Capital contribution share based payments 9.9 12.8 Investment in Additional Tier 1 instruments issued by subsidiary undertaking 230.0 At 31 December 1,380.3 1,370.4 Change in investment in subsidiary undertakings The transfer of stocks and shares ISA contracts from Virgin Money Personal Financial Service Limited VMPFS to Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Limited VMUTM was completed in March 2017, following approval by the Directors of those companies.
Subsequent to the transfer, all new stocks and shares ISA sales are written by VMUTM.
The transfer was funded through a new share issuance made by VMUTM to the Company, resulting in an increase in the investment held in VMUTM, with a related decrease in the investment held in VMPFS.
The decrease in the investment held in VMPFS of 21.0 million was determined based on a value-in-use calculation, using cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board covering a three year period, applying a discount rate of 11%.
