Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Company balance sheet translated to INR As at 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Rs.
million Non-current assets Investments in subsidiary undertakings 2,228,058 2,164,131 Current assets Derivative financial instruments 4,475 33,818 Investment securities 777,292 959,485 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,004,554 973,613 Taxation 192 1,786,513 1,966,916 Current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 31,452 98,512 Other creditors 25,891 25,507 Taxation 895 57,343 124,914 Net current assets 1,729,170 1,842,001 Total assets less current liabilities 3,957,228 4,006,132 Non-current liabilities Debt securities in issue 1,033,641 1,095,203 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 887,439 932,188 1,921,080 2,027,392 Total assets less liabilities 2,036,148 1,978,740 Equity Share capital and share premium account 453,692 453,308 Other reserves 1,095,011 1,095,011 Retained Earnings 170,302 176,695 Total shareholders equity 1,719,005 1,725,013 Other equity instruments 317,143 253,727 Total equity 2,036,148 1,978,740 Company statement of changes in equity translated to INR For the year ended 31 December 2017 Share capital and share premium Capital and Retained Other equity 1 account merger reserve earnings instruments Total Rs.
320 million, capital redemption reserve of Rs.
831 million and merger reserve of Rs.
2 Comprises dividends on preferences shares classi ed as equity and Additional Tier 1 securities Rs.
14,767 million 321 SUPPLEMENTARY Supplementary INFORMATION financial information At each balance sheet date: Summary of signi cant Changes in accounting policy differences between Indian a. Fo reign currency monetary items should IFRS IAS 8 Accounting Policies, GAAP and IFRS be reported using the closing rate Changes in Accounting Estimates The consolidated financial statements of and Errors b. N on-monetary items which are carried in the Group for the year ended 31 December terms of historical cost denominated in Changes in accounting policy are applied 2017 with comparatives as at 31 December a foreign currency should be reported retrospectively.
Comparatives are restated 2016 are prepared in accordance with using the exchange rate at the date of and the effect of period s not presented is IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee the transaction adjusted against opening retained earnings of interpretations as adopted by the the earliest year presented.
Policy changes c. N on-monetary items which are carried European Union.
made on the adoption of a new standard are at fair value or other similar valuation made in accordance with that standards IFRS differs in certain signi cant respects denominated in a foreign currency transitional provisions.
Such differences involve should be reported using the exchange methods for measuring the amounts shown rates that existed when the values Indian GAAP AS 5 Net Pro t or Loss in the financial statements of the Group, as were determined for the Period, Prior Period Items and well as additional disclosures required by Changes in Accounting Policies Indian GAAP.
Consolidation The cumulative amount of the change is Set out below are descriptions of certain included in the income statement for the IFRS IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial accounting differences between IFRS and period in which the change is made except Statements Indian GAAP that could have a signi cant as speci ed in certain standards transitional Entities are consolidated when the Group effect on loss attributable to parent provision where the change during the controls an entity.
The Group controls an company shareholders for the years ended transition period resulting from adoption of entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 the standard has to be adjusted against variable returns from its involvement with and total parent company shareholders opening retained earnings and the impact the entity and has the ability to affect those equity as at the same dates.
returns through its power over the investee.
does not provide a comprehensive analysis Where a change in accounting policy has This also includes entities where control is of such differences.
In particular, this a material effect in the current period, the not derived through voting rights such as description considers only those Indian amount by which any item in the financial structured entities.
GAAP pronouncements for which adoption statements is affected by such change or application is required in financial should also be disclosed to the extent Indian GAAP AS 21 Consolidated statements for years ended on or prior to Financial Statements ascertainable.
Where such an amount is not 31 December 2017.
The Group has not ascertainable, this fact should be indicated.
Guidance is based on the power through the quanti ed the effect of differences between ability to govern the financial and operating IFRS and Indian GAAP, nor prepared Functional and presentation policies of an entity so as to obtain bene ts consolidated financial statements under while not taking into consideration potential Indian GAAP, nor undertaken a reconciliation currency voting rights.
of IFRS and Indian GAAP financial IFRS IAS 21 The Effects of Changes statements.
Had the Group undertaken No speci c guidance is given by Indian GAAP in Foreign Exchange Rates any such quanti cation or preparation or on consolidation of Structured Entities.
An entity may present its financial statements reconciliation, other potentially signi cant in any currency or currencies.
If the accounting and disclosure differences may Business combinations presentation currency differs from the have come to its attention which are not entitys functional currency, it translates identi ed below.
Accordingly, the Group IFRS IFRS 3 Business Combinations its results and financial position into the does not provide any assurance that the All business combinations are treated as presentation currency.
differences identi ed below represent all acquisitions.
Assets, liabilities and contingent the principal differences between IFRS Assets and liabilities are translated at the liabilities acquired are measured at their and Indian GAAP relating to the Group.
closing rate at the date of that statement of fair values.
Pooling of interest method is Furthermore, no attempt has been made financial position.
Income statement items are prohibited.
to identify future differences between IFRS translated at the exchange rate at the date of For acquisitions occurring on or after and Indian GAAP.
In addition, no attempt has transaction or at average rates.
The functional 1 January 2004, IFRS 3 Business been made to identify all differences between currency is the currency of the primary Combinations requires that, when assessing IFRS and Indian GAAP that may affect the economic environment in which an entity financial statements as a result of transaction the value of the assets of an acquired entity, operates.
The presentation currency of the or events that may occur in the future.
certain identi able intangible assets must be Group is US dollars.
recognised and if considered to have a nite In making an investment decision, potential life, amortised through the income statement Indian GAAP AS 11 The Effects of investors should consult their own over an appropriate period.
Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates professional advisors for an understanding of the differences between IFRS and Indian There is no concept of functional or Adjustments to provisional fair values are GAAP and how those differences may have presentation currency.
Entities in India have permitted provided those adjustments are affected the financial results of the Group.
to prepare their financial statements in made within 12 months from the date of The summary does not purport to be Indian rupees.
acquisition, with a corresponding adjustment complete and is subject and quali ed to goodwill.
After reassessment of respective A foreign currency transaction should be in its entirety by reference to the fair values of net assets acquired, any excess recorded, on initial recognition in the reporting pronouncements of the IASB, together of acquirers interest in the net fair values of currency, by applying to the foreign currency with the pronouncements of the Indian acquirers identi able assets is recognised amount, the exchange rate between the accounting profession.
immediately in the income statement.
reporting currency and the foreign currency Where less than 100 per cent of an entity is at the date of the transaction.
acquired, non-controlling interests are stated at their proportion of the fair value of the identi able net assets and contingent liabilities acquired.
Standard Chartered 322 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Indian GAAP AS 14 Accounting for between the transaction price and the Acquired and internally Amalgamations valuation model is not recognised generated intangible assets immediately in the income statement, but is Treatment of a business combination amortised to the income statement until the depends on whether the acquired entity IFRS IAS 38 Intangible Assets inputs become observable, the transaction is held as a subsidiary, whether it is an Intangible assets are recognised if they are matures or is terminated.
amalgamation or whether it is an acquisition deemed separable and arise from contractual of a business.
For an entity acquired and held or other legal rights.
Assets with a nite useful At the time of initial recognition, IAS 39 as a subsidiary, the business combination is life are amortised on a systematic basis over requires all financial assets to be classi ed accounted for as an acquisition.
The assets their useful life.
An asset with an inde nite as either: and liabilities acquired are incorporated at useful life and which is not yet available for a. H eld at fair value through pro t or loss their existing carrying amounts.
use should be tested for impairment annually.
as a trading instrument or as designated For an amalgamation of an entity, either by management, with realised and Indian GAAP AS 26 Intangible Assets pooling of interests or acquisition accounting unrealised gains or losses re ected in Intangible assets are capitalised if speci c may be used.
The assets and liabilities pro t or loss criteria are met and are amortised over their amalgamated are incorporated at their useful life, generally not exceeding 10 years.
A vailable-for-sale at fair value, with existing carrying amounts or, alternatively, The recoverable amount of an intangible unrealised gains and losses re ected in if acquisition accounting is adopted, the asset that is not available for use or is being shareholders equity and recycled to the consideration can be allocated to individual amortised over a period exceeding 10 years income statement when the asset is sold identi able assets which may include should be reviewed at least at each financial or is impaired intangible assets and liabilities on the basis year end even if there is no indication that the of their fair values.
c. Heldto-maturity at amortised cost, asset is impaired.
where there is the intent and the ability Adjustments to the value of acquired or to hold them to maturity amalgamated balances are not permitted Property, plant and equipment after initial recognition.
Any excess of d. A s loans and receivables at amortised acquirers interest in the net fair values of IFRS IAS 16 Property, Plant and cost acquirers identi able assets is recognised as Equipment, IAS 23 Borrowing Costs At the time of initial recognition, IAS 39 capital reserve, which is neither amortised Fixed assets are recorded at cost or revalued requires all financial liabilities to be classi ed nor available for distribution to shareholders.
The Group has elected the as either: However, in the case of an amalgamation cost model.
accounted under the purchase method, the a. H eld at fair value through pro t or loss Foreign exchange gains or losses relating fair value of intangible assets with no active as a trading instrument or as designated to the procurement of property, plant and market is reduced to the extent of capital by management, with realised and equipment, under very restrictive conditions, reserve, if any, arising on the amalgamation.
unrealised gains or losses re ected in can be capitalised as part of the asset.
Minority interests arising on the acquisition of pro t or loss Depreciation is recorded over the assets a subsidiary are recognised at their share of estimated useful life.
At amortised cost the historical book value.
the useful life of an asset and the depreciation A financial asset or financial liability, other than method shall be reviewed at least at each Goodwill one held for trading, can be designated as financial year end.
The Group has the option being held at fair value through pro t or loss if to capitalise borrowing costs incurred during IFRS IFRS 3 Business Combinations it meets the criteria set out below: the period that the asset is getting ready for and IAS 38 Intangible Assets its intended use.
a. T he designation eliminates or signi cantly IFRS 3 requires that goodwill arising on all reduces a measurement or recognition acquisitions by the Group and associated Indian GAAP AS 10 Fixed Assets, AS 16 inconsistency that would otherwise arise undertakings is capitalised but not amortised Borrowing Cost and AS 6 Depreciation from measuring assets or liabilities on a and is subject to an annual review for Accounting different basis impairment.
Goodwill is tested annually Fixed assets are recorded at historical costs for impairment.
A g roup of financial assets and or or revalued amounts.
Relevant borrowing recognised may not be reversed in liabilities is managed and its performance costs are capitalised if certain criteria in AS 16 subsequent accounting periods.
evaluated on a fair value basis, or are met.
Depreciation is recorded over the assets useful life.
Schedule II Part C of c. As sets or liabilities include embedded Indian GAAP AS 14 Accounting for the Companies Act 2013 and Banking derivatives and such derivatives are not Amalgamations and AS 26 Intangible Regulations prescribe minimum rates of recognised separately Assets depreciation and these are typically used Goodwill arising on amalgamations is The designation of a financial instrument as as the basis for determining useful life.
capitalised and amortised over useful life not held at fair value through pro t or loss is exceeding five years, unless a longer period irrevocable in respect of the financial can be justi ed.
For goodwill arising on Recognition and measurement instruments to which it relates.
Subsequent acquisition of a subsidiary or a business, of financial instruments to initial recognition, instruments cannot be there is no speci c guidance.
In practice, classi ed into or out of this category.
there is either no amortisation or amortisation IFRS IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale not exceeding 10 years.
Goodwill is reviewed Recognition and Measurement financial assets resulting from movements in for impairment whenever an indicator of IAS 39 requires all financial instruments to be foreign currency exchange rates are included impairment exists.
Impairment losses initially measured at their fair value, which is in the income statement as exchange recognised may be reversed under usually to be the transaction price.
Foreign currency exchange exceptional circumstances only in cases where the initial fair value is based on a movements for available-for-sale equity subsequent accounting periods through valuation model that uses inputs which are securities are recognised in reserves.
not observable in the market, the difference 323 SUPPLEMENTARY Supplementary INFORMATION financial information Indian GAAP AS 13 Investments Impairment of financial assets Derecognition of financial assets AS 13 requires investments to be categorised IFRS IAS 39 Financial Instruments: IFRS IAS 39 Financial Instruments as follows: Recognition and Measurement Recognition and Measurement a.
C urrent investments, which are those At each balance sheet date, an assessment A financial asset is derecognised if readily realisable and intended to be held is made as to whether there is any objective substantially all the risks and rewards for less than one year, are carried at the evidence of impairment.
A financial asset is of ownership have been transferred.
lower of cost and fair value, with changes impaired and impairment losses are incurred If substantially all the risks and rewards in fair value taken directly to pro t or loss if, and only if, there is objective evidence of have not been transferred, the asset will impairment.
continue to be recognised to the extent b.
Lo ng-term investments, which are those of any continuing involvement.
investments not classi ed as current, Assets held at amortised cost are carried at cost unless there is a Indian GAAP RBI Guidelines on permanent diminution in value, in which If objective evidence of impairment exists, an Securitisation of Standard Assets case a provision for diminution is required assessment is made to determine what, if to be made by the entity any, impairment loss should be recognised.
There is limited guidance on derecognition of The impairment loss is the difference financial assets.
Securitised financial assets For investments, Reserve Bank of India RBI between the assets carrying amount and can only be derecognised if the originator outlines similar classi cations to IFRS, but its estimated recoverable amount.
has surrendered control over the assets.
the classi cation criteria and measurement Control is not surrendered where the requirements differ from those set out in The recoverable amount is determined based securitised assets are not beyond the reach IFRS.
Financial liabilities are usually carried on the present value of expected future cash of the creditors of the originator or where the at cost.
There is no ability to designate ows, discounted at the instruments original transferee does not have the right to pledge, instruments at fair value.
effective interest rate, either individually or sell, transfer or exchange the securitised collectively.
Individually assessed assets asset for its own bene t, or where there for which there is no objective evidence Derivatives is an option that entitles the originator to of impairment are collectively assessed repurchase the financial assets transferred IFRS IAS 39 Financial Instruments: for impairment.
under a securitisation transaction from Recognition and Measurement the transferee.
Available-for-sale assets IAS 39 requires that all derivatives be recognised on balance sheet at fair value.
If objective evidence of impairment exists, the Liabilities and equity Changes in the fair value of derivatives that cumulative loss measured as the difference are not hedges are reported in the income between the acquisition cost and the current IFRS IAS 39 Financial Instruments: statement.
Changes in the fair value of fair value, less any previously recognised Recognition and Measurement derivatives that are designated as hedges are impairment is removed from equity and A financial instrument is classi ed as a liability either offset against the change in fair value of recognised in the income statement.
where there is a contractual obligation to the hedged asset or liability through earnings, Market recoveries leading to a reversal of an deliver either cash or another financial asset or recognised directly in equity until the impairment provision for available-for-sale to the holder of that instrument, regardless hedged item is recognised in earnings, debt securities are recognised in the income of the manner in which the contractual depending on the nature of the hedge.
Impairment losses for equity obligation will be settled.
Preference shares, ineffective portion of the hedges change in instruments classi ed as available-for-sale are which carry a mandatory coupon or are fair value is immediately recognised in not permitted to be reversed through pro t redeemable on a speci c date or at the earnings.
A derivative may only be classi ed or loss.
option of the shareholder, are classi ed as as a hedge if an entity meets stringent financial liabilities and are presented in other qualifying criteria in respect of documentation Indian GAAP AS 13 Investments borrowed funds.
The dividends on these and hedge effectiveness.
preference shares are recognised in the Long-term investments are written down IAS 39 requires the separation of derivatives income statement as interest expense on when there is a decline in fair value, which is embedded in a financial instrument if it is an amortised cost basis using the effective deemed to be other than temporary.
not deemed to be closely related to the interest method.
Impairments may be reversed through the economic characteristics of the underlying income statement in subsequent periods if Indian GAAP host instrument.
the investment rises in value or the reasons Classi cation is based on the legal form for the impairment no longer exist.
Indian GAAP rather than substance.
Foreign exchange contracts held for trading In accordance with RBI regulations, in or speculative purposes are carried at fair respect of available-for-sale investments, Provisions for liabilities and value, with gains and losses recognised in the impairments are required to be reversed charges income statement.
In the absence of speci c through Investment Reserve Account equity guidance, equity options are carried at the reserve if the investment rises in value or the IFRS IAS 37 Provisions, Contingents lower of cost or market value.
reasons for the impairment no longer exist.
Liabilities and Contingent Assets The amount recognised as a provision is the For banks, there are guidelines prescribed For loans and advances, the RBI regulations best estimate at the balance sheet date of the by RBI on measurement and accounting stipulate minimum provision based on days expenditure required to settle the obligation, of Interest Rate Swaps and Forward past due.
Additionally, RBI regulations require discounted using a pre-tax market discount Rate Agreements entered onto for banks to hold provisions in respect of rate if the effect is material.
standard assets and for speci c country risk exposures.
Standard Chartered 324 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Indian GAAP AS 29 Provisions, option pricing model, excluding the impact Indian GAAP AS 22 Accounting for Contingents Liabilities and Contingent of any non-market vesting conditions for Taxes on Income Assets example, pro tability and growth targets.
Deferred tax is determined based on timing Non-market vesting conditions must be Provisions are recognised and measured on differences, being the difference between included in assumptions about the number a similar basis to IFRS, except that there is accounting income and taxable income for of options that are expected to become no requirement for discounting the provision a period that is capable of reversal in one exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the or liability.
Deferred tax Group revises its estimates of the number assets are recognised where it is probable of options that are expected to become that future taxable pro t will be available Pension obligations exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the against which the temporary differences revision of original estimates, if any, in the IFRS IAS 19 Employee Bene ts can be utilised.
income statement, and a corresponding For fide ned contribution plans, contributions adjustment to equity over the remaining are charged to operating expenses.
For Interest income and expense vesting period.
The proceeds received net funded fide ned bene t plans, the liability of any directly attributable transaction costs IFRS IAS 18 Revenue recognised in the balance sheet is the are credited to share capital nominal value present value of the fide ned bene t obligation Interest income and expense is recognised and share premium when the options at the balance sheet date less the fair value in the income statement using the effective are exercised.
For unfunded fide ned bene t interest method.
The effective interest rate is plans, the liability recognised at the balance the rate that discounts estimated future cash Cash-settled awards must be revalued at sheet date is the present value of the payments or receipts through the expected each balance sheet date on an intrinsic value fide ned bene t obligation.
The fide ned life of the financial instrument.
When basis being the difference between the bene t obligation is calculated annually by calculating the effective interest rate, the market price of the share at the measurement independent actuaries using the projected Group estimates cash ows considering all date and the exercise price with any changes unit method.
The present value of the contractual terms of the financial instrument in fair value charged or credited to staff costs fide ned bene t obligation is determined but does not consider future credit losses.
by discounting the estimated future cash The calculation includes all fees and points Deferred tax is recognised based on the out ows using an interest rate equal to the paid or received between parties to the intrinsic value of the award and is recorded yield on high-quality corporate bonds.
contract that are an integral part of the in the income statement if the tax deduction Actuarial gains and losses that arise are effective interest rate, transaction costs is less than or equal to the cumulative recognised in shareholders equity and and all other premiums or discounts.
share-based compensation expense or presented in the statement of other equity if the tax deduction exceeds the comprehensive income in the period they Indian GAAP IAS 9 Revenue cumulative expense.
The net interest expense on the net Recognition fide ned liability for the year is determined by As per AS 9, interest is recognised on a time Indian GAAP applying the discount rate used to measure proportion basis taking into account the Entities may either follow the intrinsic value the fide ned bene t obligation at the beginning amount outstanding and the rate applicable.
method or the fair value method for of the annual period to the then net fide ned In the absence of a speci c effective interest determining the costs of bene ts arising from bene t liability, taking into account any rate requirement, premiums and discounts share-based compensation plans.
Although changes in the net fide ned bene t liability are usually amortised on a straight-line basis the fair value approach is recommended, during the year as a result of contributions over the term of the instrument.
entities may use the intrinsic value method and bene t payment.
Net interest expense and provide fair value disclosures.
and other expense related to fide ned Dividends bene t plans are recognised in the Deferred tax is not recognised as it is not income statement.
IFRS IAS 10 Events After The Reporting considered to represent a timing difference.
Date Entities are also permitted the option of Indian GAAP AS 15 Employee Bene ts Dividends to holders of equity instruments, recognising the related compensation cost The discount rate to be used for determining when proposed or declared after the over the service period for the entire award fide ned bene t obligations is established by balance sheet date, should not be that is, over the service period of the last reference to market yields at the balance recognised as a liability on the balance sheet separately vesting portion of the award, sheet date on government bonds.
A company, however, is required to provided that the amount of compensation expected return on plan assets is based on disclose the amount of dividends that were cost recognised at any date at least equals market expectation for the returns over the proposed or declared after the balance sheet the fair value of the vested portion of the entire life of the related obligation.
Actuarial date but before the financial statements were award at that date.
gains or losses are recognised immediately authorised for issue.
in the statement of income.
Deferred taxation Indian GAAP Share-based compensation Accounting and disclosure of dividend is IFRS IAS 12 Income Taxes similar to IFRS with effect from 1 April 2016.
IFRS IFRS 2 Share-based payments Deferred tax is determined based on temporary differences, being the difference IFRS 2 requires that all share-based between the carrying amount and tax payments are accounted for using a fair value base of assets and liabilities, subject to method.
The fair value of the employee certain exceptions.
services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
Deferred tax assets are recognised if it is For equity-settled awards, the total amount probable more likely than not that suf cient to be expensed over the vesting period must future taxable pro ts will be available to utilise be determined by reference to the fair value to deferred tax assets.
of the options granted determined using an 325
