Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Vijay Anand ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PHOTO COMPETITION Purpose in pictures Recently, we launched our new purpose statement: Driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity.
We held a photography competition to encourage our colleagues around the globe to interpret this in their own creative ways, and to celebrate that diversity.
We received over 800 high-quality submissions.
After an extremely dif cult selection process, six outstanding photographs were selected for the final shortlist.
Those six images appear on this page.
The winner of the competition is Wil Thimister, with his entry Fisherman in Banyuwangi, which can be found on the front back cover of this report along with entries from Jitesh Vijay Bulani and Lama Yammine.
Thank you to everybody who took part in the photography competition.
The full list of shortlisted photographers is: Vijay Anand, Jitesh Vijay Bulani, Ahmed Nizar, Abhijit Sinha, Wil Thimister, Lama Yammine Supplementary On how his entry relates to our purpose, Wil says: information During the years I have been living in Southeast Asia, I have travelled to many places photographing human interest.
The region has a fascinating mix of diverse cultures, religions and people.
In my photography, I try to portray their daily lives, their labour, their communities and their beliefs.
310 Supplementary financial information Many people from our markets participate in small-scale economic 326 Supplementary people information activities, right at the foundation of their societies.
My photo, of shermen 328 Supplementary sustainability information at a beach near Banyuwangi in East Java, Indonesia, is an example of this.
Once the catch is pulled ashore, it will nd its way to the local sh market 331 Shareholder information where middlemen will take care of distribution to other businesses and customers.
The money they earn will allow the workers to save for a new 333 Major awards 2017 shing net, their childrens education or maybe even to invest in a boat.
335 Glossary To me, our purpose statement refers to the fact that we can make a difference to those communities by providing them with a finance infrastructure to support their trade.
By doing that, we can help them to build a better life.
