232 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 18: Securitisation Securitisation programmes Loans and advances to customers include loans securitised under the Groups Gosforth securitisation programmes, which have been sold by Virgin Money plc to bankruptcy remote SPVs.
The transfers of the mortgage loans to the structured entities are not treated as sales by the Group.
No gain or loss has been recognised on pledging the mortgages to the programmes.
The SPVs are principally engaged in providing long-term funding to the Group through the issue of amortising mortgage backed securities to investors on terms whereby the majority of the risks and rewards of the loans and advances are retained by Virgin Money plc.
As a result, the SPVs are fully consolidated in these financial statements and all of the loans and advances are retained on the Groups balance sheet, with the related securities included within debt securities in issue.
2017 2016 Loans and Loans and advances Securities in advances Securities in securitised issue securitised issue m m m m Residential mortgage loans 5,438.5 5,132.7 4,907.8 4,616.7 Less: securities held by the Group 2,698.6 2,322.5 Total securitisation programmes 5,438.5 2,434.1 4,907.8 2,294.2 The full liabilities associated with the securitisation programme excluding the proportion relating to securities retained are recognised within debt securities in issue.
However, the Groups obligations are limited to the cash flows generated from the underlying securitised assets.
At the reporting date the Group had over-collateralised the securitisation transactions, as set out in the table above, to meet the terms of the transaction and to provide operational flexibility.
In addition, the Group held cash deposits and permitted investments of 350.4 million 2016: 354.3 million supporting the securities issued.
To satisfy transaction requirements the Group may provide additional support to the SPV in the form of increased cash reserves funded by further subordinated loans.
Transfers of financial assets There were no transactions in the year involving the transfer of financial assets that were derecognised by the Group but with ongoing exposure 2016: none.
There were also no transactions in the year where the Group transferred assets that should have been derecognised in their entirety 2016: none.
As noted above, loans and advances transferred to SPVs do not represent transfers of financial assets by the Group as all of the SPVs are consolidated in these financial statements.
