Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies The group has agreed with its lending banks basis in preparing both the company and General information and M&G that they will amend or waive consolidated group financial statements is certain covenant compliance requirements appropriate and the financial statements The company is a public limited company under the terms of the revolving credit do not include the adjustments that would incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
facility and the M&G term loan respectively.
result if the group and company were unable The address of its registered office is The net worth covenant has been to continue as a going concern.
1 Godwin Street, Bradford, England, temporarily reduced from 400m to 375m BD12SU.
The company is listed on the The group has made the following disclosure at 31 December 2017 and 31 March 2018, London Stock Exchange.
reclassifications within the statutory financial the net worth excluding Vanquis Bank statements for the year ended 31 December covenant has been temporarily reduced 2017 and within the financial information: Basis of preparation from 155m to100m at 31 December 2017 and 31 March 2018 and the interest a Separate disclosure of impairment The financial statements are prepared cover covenant is being temporarily on the face of the income statement in accordance with IFRS adopted for use reduced from 2.0 times to 1.25 times for in the European Union EU, International Historically, costs have been analysed the 12 months ending 31 March 2018 and Financial Reporting Interpretations between operating costs, administrative 30 June 2018.
If the proposed rights issue Committee IFRIC interpretations and costs and finance costs on the face of does not proceed the waivers obtained the Companies Act 2006.
The financial the income statement.
Operating costs by the group will cease to remain effective statements have been prepared on a going comprised impairment, agents commissions and the bridge facility would also be due.
concern basis under the historical cost and marketing and acquisition costs.
In these circumstances, the group would convention, as modified by the revaluation However, under the new home credit seek to obtain further waivers of a breach of derivative financial instruments and Visa operating model agents commission costs of its financial covenants or the agreement Inc. shareholdings to fair value.
In preparing have been replaced with salaries which of the lending banks and M&G not to the financial statements, the directors are will be shown under administrative costs.
accelerate repayment of the revolving credit required to use certain critical accounting Given that impairment costs will comprise facility and the M&G term loan respectively.
estimates and are required to exercise a significant proportion of the remaining However, if such waivers were not granted judgement in the application of the group operating costs and due to its significance or such agreement was not forthcoming, and companys accounting policies.
to the group as a financial institution, then the accelerated repayment in full of it is considered appropriate to disclose any amounts outstanding thereunder might Note 32 refers to the group and Vanquis impairment separately on the face of the result in insolvency proceedings being Banks regulatory capital positions and income statement.
The residual operating initiated against the group which could result the intention to raise 300m by way of a costs comprising marketing and acquisition in shareholders losing all or a substantial proposed rights issue to meet the costs of costs have been incorporated within amount of the value of their investment in resolving the FCA investigations, restore the administrative and operating costs with 2016 the company.
groups prudent capital position, seek to comparatives reclassified.
The Board has concluded that the maintain the groups investment grade rating resolutions which are necessary for the and re-establish normal access to funding b Separate disclosure of retail deposits proposed rights issue to proceed are likely to from the bank and debt capital markets.
on the face of the balance sheet be passed and that the equity proceeds are As at 31 December 2017, the groups All external borrowings held by the likely to be raised in line with the timetable regulatory capital on a consolidated basis is group have historically been shown as so that there will be no further breach of below the minimum requirement set by the bank and other borrowings on the face regulatory capital requirements or a breach PRA.
Without the benefit of the net proceeds of the balance sheet and split between of bank covenants once the capital is raised.
from the proposed rights issue, the group current where settlement is within the The Board acknowledges that there are would continue to be unable to meet its subsequent 12 months and non-current risks that may prevent the proposed rights minimum regulatory capital requirement.
where settlement can be deferred issue proceeding in line with the expected In such event, there is a risk that the PRA beyond 12 months.
Retail deposits have timetable or at all.
There is a risk that would have the ability to exercise its widenow become the most material part of sufficient shareholders will not vote in favour ranging powers over the group which the groups funding structure.
Most retail of the resolutions to enable the equity raise could include a variation of the groups deposit taking institutions disclose retail to occur.
Note 32 explains that the proposed permissions, restricting the groups business, deposits separately on the face of the rights issue is fully underwritten subject to or, in conjunction with other regulatory balance sheet and this disclosure has now customary conditions.
These conditions bodies and authorities, imposing a resolution been adopted by the group with 2016 allow the underwriters to not fund the equity procedure on Vanquis Bank and or any other comparatives reclassified.
in a number of circumstances including there member of the group under the UK Banking The group and companys principal being a material adverse change in the affairs Act 2009, as amended.
Even if the PRA were accounting policies under IFRS, which have of the company or financial markets.
to exercise forbearance in respect of such been consistently applied to all the years breaches of minimum regulatory capital The Board believes that it is unlikely that presented unless otherwise stated, are set requirements, it could at a later date revisit the proposed rights issue will not occur but out below: that decision or the basis upon which any the consequences of not being successful forbearance was granted.
This could have a N ew and amended standards adopted indicate the existence of a material a material adverse effect on the groups by the group and company: uncertainty.
This may cast significant business, financial condition, results of doubt about the groups and companys There have been no new or amended operations, cash flows and prospects.
ability to continue as a going concern so standards adopted in the financial year it is appropriate to make full disclosure as beginning 1 January 2017 which had a required by accounting standards.
The Board material impact on the group or company.
believes that adopting the going concern 133 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued b N ew standards, amendments and The groups unaudited IFRS 9 profits in 2017 The classification of cash flows will be also interpretations issued but not effective for of 101.3m were 7.8m lower than IAS 39 affected as under IAS 17 operating lease thefinancial year beginning 1 January 2017 profits.
This reflects the impact of the growth payments are presented as operating and not early adopted: in receivables in Vanquis Bank, Moneybarn cash flows: whereas under IFRS 16, and Satsuma partly offset by the impact of the lease payments will be split into a IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective from the shrinkage in home credit receivables.
principal and interest portion which will be 1 January 2018 and replaces IAS 39 Financial Profits in growing businesses tend to be presented as financing and operating cash instruments: Recognition and measurement.
lower under IFRS 9 whilst conversely profits flows respectively.
The standard has been applied prospectively of shrinking business tend to be higher.
The group and company are in the process and prior year comparatives will not The adoption of IFRS 9 into the opening of assessing the impact of the standard be restated.
balance sheet on 1 January 2018 results in a and will adopt from the effective date of IFRS 9 prescribes: i classification and reduction in receivables of 223.4m, which 1 January 2019. measurement of financial instruments: ii net of deferred tax, results in a reduction in expected loss accounting for impairment, net assets of 172.5m.
Basis of consolidation and ii hedge accounting.
The only area which materially affects the group is Despite the adjustments required to The consolidated income statement, expected loss accounting for impairment.
receivables, net assets and earnings, it consolidated statement of comprehensive Under this approach, impairment provisions receivables, net assets and earnings, it is income, balance sheet, statement of are recognised on inception of a loan based important to note that IFRS 9 only changes changes in shareholders equity, statement on the probability of default and the typical the timing of profits made on a loan.
of cash flows and notes to the financial loss arising on default: The groups underwriting and scorecards will statements include the financial statements be unaffected by the change in accounting, Stage 1 Accounts at initial recognition.
of the company and all of its subsidiary the ultimate profitability of loan is the same The expected loss is based on a 12 month undertakings drawn up from the date under both IAS 39 and IFRS 9 and more probability of default PD, based on control passes to the group until the date fundamentally the cash flows and capital historic experience, and revenue is control ceases.
generation over the life of a loan remain recognised on the gross receivable before unchanged.
The calculation of the groups Control is achieved when the group: impairment provision.
bank covenants are unaffected by IFRS 9, Has the power over the investee: as they are based on accounting standards Stage 2 Accounts which have suffered a in place at the time they were set.
Based on significant deterioration in credit risk but Is exposed, or has rights, to variable return finalised transitional arrangements, the have not defaulted.
The expected loss is from its involvement with the investee: and regulatory capital impact of IFRS 9 will be based on a lifetime PD, based on historic Has the ability to use its power to phased in on a transitional basis over five experience, and recognised on the gross affect returns.
years as follows: 5% from the start of 2018, receivable before impairment provision.
15% in 2019, 30% in 2020, 50% in 2021, 75% All intra-group transactions, balances Stage 3 Accounts which have missed a in 2022 and 100% from the start of 2023. and unrealised gains on transactions payment and are in arrears.
Provisions are between group companies are eliminated IFRS 16, Leases, replaces IAS 17, Leases based on expected losses based on on consolidation.
and provides a model for the identification historic cash flows.
Revenue is recognised of lease arrangements and the treatment on the net receivables after impairment The accounting policies of subsidiaries are in the financial statements of both lessees provision.
This stage is effectively the consistent with the accounting policies of and lessors.
current IAS 39 treatment for impairment.
The standard distinguishes leases and Provisions are calculated based on Revenue service contracts on the basis of whether an an unbiased probability-weighted identified asset is controlled by the customer.
outcome which take into account historic Distinctions of operating leases and finance Revenue comprises interest and fee income performance and considers the outlook leases are removed for lessee accounting, earned by Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn and for macro-economic conditions.
and is replaced by a model where a right-ofinterest income earned by the Consumer The impairment approach under IFRS use asset and a corresponding liability are Credit Division CCD.
9 differs from the current incurred loss recognised for all leases by lessees, except Revenue excludes value added tax and intramodel under IAS 39 where impairment for short term assets and leases of low group transactions.
provisions are only reflected when there is value assets.
objective evidence of impairment, typically Within Vanquis Bank, interest is calculated The right of use asset is initially measured at a missed payment.
The resulting effect is on credit card advances to customers cost and subsequently measured at cost less that impairment provisions under IFRS 9 using the effective interest rate on the daily accumulated depreciation and impairment are recognised earlier.
This will result in a balance outstanding.
Annual fees charged losses, adjusted for any remeasurement one-off adjustment to receivables, deferred to customers credit card accounts are of the lease liability.
The lease liability is tax and reserves on adoption and will result recognised as part of the effective interest initially measured at the present value of in delayed recognition of profits.
Penalty charges and other fees are the lease payments that are not paid at the impact of IFRS 9, an unaudited pro forma recognised at the time the charges are made that date.
Subsequently the lease liability 2017 income statement and balance sheet as to customers on the basis that performance isadjusted for interest and lease payments, at 31 December are presented on page 44. is complete.
as well as the impact of lease modifications, amongst others.
134 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Within CCD and Moneybarn, revenue on Goodwill is tested annually for impairment Computer software and computer software customer receivables is recognised using an and is carried at cost less accumulated development assets represent the costs effective interest rate.
The effective interest impairment losses.
Impairment is tested by incurred to acquire or develop software and rate is calculated using estimated cash comparing the carrying value of the asset to bring it into use.
Directly attributable costs flows, being contractual payments adjusted the discounted expected future cash flows incurred in the development of software for the impact of customers repaying from the relevant cash-generating unit.
are capitalised as an intangible asset if the early but excluding the anticipated impact Expected future cash flows are derived from software will generate future economic of customers paying late or not paying the groups latest budget projections and benefits.
Directly attributable costs include at all.
Directly attributable incremental the discount rate is based on the groups the cost of software development employees issue costs are also taken into account weighted average cost of capital at the and an appropriate portion of relevant in calculating the effective interest rate.
Interest income continues to be accrued Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to Computer software and computer software on impaired receivables using the original 1 January 1998 was eliminated against development costs are amortised on a effective interest rate applied to the loans shareholders funds under UK GAAP and straight-line basis over their estimated useful carrying value.
was not reinstated on transition to IFRS.
economic life which is generally estimated to On disposal of a business, any such goodwill be between three and 10 years.
The residual Finance costs relating to the business will not be taken into values and economic lives of intangible account in determining the profit or loss assets are reviewed by management at each Finance costs principally comprise the on disposal.
interest on retail deposits, bank and other borrowings and, for the company, on Other intangible assets are valued at Investments in subsidiaries intra-group loan arrangements, and are cost less subsequent amortisation.
recognised on an effective interest rate Amortisation is charged to the income Investments in subsidiaries are stated at basis.
Finance costs also include any fair statement as part of administrative costs.
cost less, where appropriate, provisions value movement on those derivative financial for impairment.
Impairment is calculated instruments held for hedging purposes Foreign currency translation by comparing the carrying value of the which do not qualify for hedge accounting investment with the higher of the net asset under IAS 39.
Items included in the financial statements value of the relevant subsidiary and its of each of the groups subsidiaries are discounted expected future cash flows.
Dividend income measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which Leases Dividend income is recognised in the income the subsidiary operates the functional statement when the companys right to currency.
The groups subsidiaries primarily Leases in which substantially all of the risks receive payment is established.
operate in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
and rewards of ownership are retained by The consolidated and company financial the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Goodwill statements are presented in sterling, The leases entered into by the group and which is the companys functional and company are solely operating leases.
All acquisitions are accounted for using the respect of operating leases are charged to purchase method of accounting.
the income statement on a straight-line basis Transactions that are not denominated in over the lease term.
the groups functional currency are recorded Goodwill is an intangible asset and is at the rate of exchange ruling at the date measured as the excess of the fair value Other intangible assets of the transaction.
Monetary assets and of the consideration over the fair value of liabilities denominated in foreign currencies the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities are translated into the relevant functional and contingent liabilities at the date of Other intangible assets include acquisition currency at the exchange rates ruling at the acquisition.
Gains and losses on the disposal intangibles in respect of the broker balance sheet date.
Differences arising on of a subsidiary include the carrying amount relationships at Moneybarn and stand-alone translation are charged or credited to the of goodwill relating to the subsidiary sold.
computer software development costs of income statement, except when deferred in intangible assets across the group.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating equity as effective cash flow hedges.
units for the purposes of impairment The fair value of Moneybarns broker If a foreign operation were to be disposed testing.
The allocation is made to those relationships on acquisition was estimated by of, the cumulative amount of the differences cash-generating units or groups of cashdiscounting the expected future cash flows arising on translation recognised in other generating units which are expected to from Moneybarns core broker relationships comprehensive income would be recognised benefit from the business combination in over their estimated useful economic life in the income statement when the gain or which the goodwill arose.
which was deemed to be 10 years.
The asset loss on disposal is recognised.
is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.
135 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued discounted at the original effective interest Amounts receivable Available for sale investments rate.
Subsequent cash flows are regularly from customers compared to estimated cash flows to ensure Available for sale investments includes that the estimates are sufficiently accurate UK government gilts and equity Customer receivables are initially recorded for impairment provisioning purposes.
at the amount advanced to the customer In Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn, impairment plus directly attributable issue costs.
Government gilts comprise UK government is recorded through the use of an allowance Subsequently, receivables are increased by gilts which form part of the liquid assets account whilst in CCD impairment charges revenue and reduced by cash collections and buffer and other liquid resources held by are deducted directly from the carrying value any deduction for impairment.
Vanquis Bank in accordance with the PRAs of receivables.
The gilts had a maturity on The group assesses whether there is origination in excess of three months and objective evidence that customer receivables Property, plant and equipment are therefore disclosed as an available for are impaired at each balance sheet date.
The principal criteria for determining whether Property, plant and equipment is shown there is objective evidence of impairment is Equity investment holdings are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and delinquency in contractual payments.
at fair value in the balance sheet as a reliable impairment, except for land, which is shown estimate of the fair value can be determined.
Within Vanquis Bank credit cards and loans, Satsumas monthly business and Moneybarn, Fair value changes on AFS assets including Cost represents invoiced cost plus any where repayments are typically made any impairment losses and foreign exchange other costs that are directly attributable monthly, customer balances are deemed to gains or losses are recognised directly to the acquisition of the items.
Repairs and be impaired when one monthly contractual in equity through other comprehensive maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
The fair value of AFS monetary Depreciation is calculated to write down as the difference between the carrying assets denominated in foreign currency are assets to their estimated realisable values value of receivables and the present value determined through translation at the spot over their useful economic lives.
of estimated future cash flows discounted rate at the balance sheet date.
at the original effective interest rate.
The following principal bases are used: Dividends on AFS equity instruments are Estimated future cash flows are based on the recognised in the income statement when % Method historical performance of customer balances the groups right to receive the dividends Land Nil falling into different arrears stages and are is established.
Short leasehold Over the lease Straight line buildings period The cumulative gain or loss that is recognised Separate provisions are raised where Equipment 10 to 33 Straight line in equity is recycled to the income statement forbearance is provided to the customer including on disposal of the equity holding.
and alternative payment arrangements computer are established.
Accounts under payment hardware Cash and cash equivalents arrangements are separately identified Motor vehicles 25 Reducing according to the type of payment balance Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash arrangement.
The carrying value of at bank and in hand which includes amounts receivables under each type of payment The residual values and useful economic invested in the Bank of England account arrangement is calculated using historical lives of all assets are reviewed, and held in accordance with the Prudential cash flows under that payment arrangement, adjusted if appropriate, at each balance Regulation Authoritys PRA liquidity regime.
discounted at the original effective sheet date.
All items of property, plant and Bank overdrafts are presented in current interest rate.
equipment, other than land, are tested for liabilities to the extent that there is no right impairment whenever events or changes Within the weekly home credit and Satsumas of offset with cash balances.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying weekly business, objective evidence of value may not be recoverable.
Land is subject impairment is based on the payment Derivative financial to an annual impairment test.
An impairment performance of loans in the previous 12 loss is recognised for the amount by which instruments weeks as this is considered to be the most the assets carrying value exceeds the appropriate indicator of credit quality.
higher of the assets value in use and its fair Loans are deemed to be impaired when The group and company use derivative value less costs to sell.
Gains and losses on the cumulative amount of two or more financial instruments, principally interest rate disposal of property, plant and equipment contractual weekly payments have been swaps and forward contracts, to manage the are determined by comparing any proceeds missed in the previous 12-week period since interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk with the carrying value of the asset and are only at this point do the expected future cash arising from the groups operations in the recognised within administrative costs in the flows from loans deteriorate significantly.
UK and Republic of Ireland.
Loans with one missed weekly payment of a speculative nature are undertaken.
over the previous 12-week period are not Depreciation is charged to the income All derivative financial instruments are deemed to be impaired.
The amount of statement as part of administrative costs.
assessed against the hedge accounting impairment loss is calculated on a portfolio criteria set out in IAS 39, Financial basis by reference to arrears stages and instruments: Recognition and measurement.
is measured as the difference between Derivative financial instruments that meet the carrying value of the loans and the the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 present value of estimated future cash flows are designated as either: hedges of the fair 136 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements value of recognised assets, liabilities or firm are disclosed in note 17.
Movements on the Retirement benefits commitments fair value hedges : hedges of hedging reserve in shareholders equity highly probable forecast transactions cash are shown in note 27.
The full fair value of a Defined benefit pension schemes flow hedges : or hedges of net investments in derivative financial instrument is classified foreign operations.
as a non-current asset or liability when the The charge in the income statement in remaining maturity of the hedged item is respect of defined benefit pension schemes The relationship between hedging more than 12 months from the balance sheet comprises the actuarially assessed current instruments and hedged items is date and as a current asset or liability when service cost of working employees, together documented at the inception of the remaining maturity of the hedged item with the interest on pension liabilities a transaction, as well as the risk is less than 12 months from the balance offset by the interest on pension scheme management objectives and strategy for sheet date.
All charges are recognised within undertaking various hedging transactions.
administrative costs in the income statement.
The assessment of whether the derivative Net investment hedges financial instruments used in hedging The retirement benefit asset recognised transactions are highly effective in offsetting The group uses a combination of borrowings in the balance sheet in respect of defined changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged denominated in overseas currencies and benefit pension schemes is the fair value of items is documented, both at the hedge foreign currency forward contracts as a the schemes assets less the present value inception and on an ongoing basis.
hedge against the translation exposure on of the defined benefit obligation at the the companys net investment in overseas balance sheet date.
A retirement benefit asset Derivative financial instruments are initially branches.
Where the hedge is fully effective is recognised to the extent that the group recognised at their fair value on the date a at hedging the variability in the net assets and company have an unconditional right to derivative contract is entered into and are of those operations and or the companys a refund of the asset or if it will be recovered subsequently re-measured at each reporting investment caused by changes in exchange in future years as a result of reduced date to their fair value.
Where derivative rates, the changes in value of the borrowings contributions to the pension scheme.
financial instruments do not qualify for and forward contracts are recognised in hedge accounting, movements in the fair the statement of comprehensive income The defined benefit obligation is calculated value are recognised immediately within the and accumulated in the hedging reserve.
annually by independent actuaries using the income statement.
Where hedge accounting When ahedge is no longer deemed to projected unit credit method.
The present criteria have been met, the resultant gain be highly effective, the ineffective part of value of the defined benefit obligation is or loss on the derivative financial instrument any change in value caused by changes in determined by discounting the estimated is recognised as follows: exchange rates is recognised in the income future cash outflows using interest rates of statement.
Amounts recognised in equity high quality corporate bonds that have terms Cash flow hedges are recycled to the income statement on to maturity approximating to the terms of the disposal of the foreign operation.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments Actuarial gains and losses arising from Borrowings that are designated and qualify as cash experience adjustments and changes flow hedges are recognised in the hedging in actuarial assumptions are recognised Borrowings are recognised initially at reserve within equity.
The gain or loss immediately in the statement of fair value, being issue proceeds less any relating to the ineffective portion is comprehensive income.
Borrowings are recognised immediately in the income Past service costs are recognised immediately subsequently stated at amortised cost: statement as part of finance costs.
any difference between proceeds less Amounts deferred in equity are recognised transaction costs and the redemption value in the income statement when the income is recognised in the income statement over Defined contribution pension schemes or expense on the hedged item is recognised the expected life of the borrowings using the in the income statement.
Contributions to defined contribution effective interest rate.
Hedge accounting for cash flow hedges is pension schemes are charged to the income discontinued when: Borrowings are classified as current liabilities statement on an accruals basis.
unless the group or company has an it is evident from testing that a derivative unconditional right to defer settlement of Share capital financial instrument is not, or has ceased the liability for at least 12 months after the to be, highly effective as a hedge: or balance sheet date.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
the derivative financial instrument expires, Incremental costs directly attributable to or is sold, terminated or exercised: or Dividends paid the issue of new shares are shown in equity the underlying hedged item matures as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Dividend distributions to the companys Where any group company purchases the shareholders are recognised in the group When a cash flow hedging instrument companys share capital, the consideration and companys financial statements expires or is sold, or when a cash flow hedge paid, including any directly attributable as follows: no longer meets the criteria for hedge incremental costs, is included within accounting, any cumulative gain or loss Final dividend: when approved by the a treasury shares reserve and deducted from deferred in equity at that time is immediately companys shareholders at the annual equity until the shares are no longer held by transferred to the income statement.
general meeting: and a group company or cancelled.
Where such shares are reissued outside of the group, any The fair values of various derivative financial Interim dividend: when paid consideration received, net of any directly instruments used for hedging purposes bythe company.
attributable transaction costs, is included within the treasury shares reserve.
137 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Statement of accounting policies continued A transfer is made from the share-based Deferred tax assets are recognised to the Share-based payments payment reserve to retained earnings when extent that it is probable that future taxable options and awards vest or lapse.
In respect profits will be available against which the Equity-settled schemes of the SAYE options, the proceeds received, temporary differences can be utilised.
net of any directly attributable transaction The company grants options under Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset costs, are credited to share capital and share employee savings-related share option when there is a legally enforceable right to premium when the options are exercised.
schemes typically referred to as Save As You offset current tax assets against current tax Earn schemes SAYE and makes awards liabilities and when the deferred tax assets Cash-settled schemes under the Performance Share Plan PSP and liabilities relate to income taxes levied and the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS.
by the same taxation authority on either the The company also grants awards under the All of these schemes are equity-settled.
taxable entity or different taxable entities Provident Financial Equity Plan PFEP to where there is an intention to settle the eligible employees based on a percentage of The cost of providing options and awards to balances on a net basis.
The cost of the awards is based group and company employees is charged on the performance conditions of either to the income statement of the entity over Provisions divisional profit before tax, EPS, TSR or share the vesting period of the related options and price growth.
The scheme is cash settled.
The corresponding credit is made Provisions are recognised when the to a share-based payment reserve within The cost of the award is charged to the group has a present obligation legal or equity.
The grant by the company of options income statement over the vesting period constructive as a result of a past event, it is and awards over its equity instruments to and a corresponding credit is made within probable that the group will be required to the employees of subsidiary undertakings liabilities.
The value of the charge is adjusted settle that obligation and a reliable estimate is treated as an investment in the companys at each balance sheet date to reflect can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The fair value of expected levels of vesting.
employee services received, measured by The amount recognised as a provision is the reference to the fair value at the date of Taxation best estimate of the consideration required grant, is recognised over the vesting period to settle the present obligation at the balance as an increase in investments in subsidiary sheet date, taking into account the risks and The tax charge represents the sum of current undertakings, with a corresponding uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
adjustment to the share-based payment Where a provision is measured using the reserve within equity.
cash flows estimated to settle the present Current tax obligation, its carrying amount is the present The cost of options and awards is based Current tax is calculated based on taxable value of those cash flows when the effect of on their fair value.
For PSP schemes, the profit for the year using tax rates that have the time value of money is material.
performance conditions are based on been enacted or substantively enacted by earnings per share EPS.
Accordingly, the fair the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs Contingent liabilities value of options and awards is determined from profit before taxation as reported in using a binomial option pricing model which the income statement because it excludes is a suitable model for valuing options Contingent liabilities are possible obligations items of income or expense that are taxable with internal related targets such as EPS.
arising from past events, whose existence or deductible in other years and it further A binomial model is also used for calculating will be confirmed only by uncertain future excludes items that are never taxable the fair value of SAYE options which have events, or present obligations arising or deductible.
from past events that are not recognised The value of the charge is adjusted at each because either an outflow of economic Deferred tax balance sheet date to reflect lapses and benefits is not probable or the amount of expected or actual levels of vesting, with the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be a corresponding adjustment to the shareContingent liabilities are not recognised in payable or recoverable on differences based payment reserve.
the balance sheet but information about between the carrying amounts of assets them is disclosed unless the possibility of any and liabilities in the financial statements For LTIS schemes, performance conditions economic outflow in relation to settlement and the corresponding tax bases used are based on either divisional profit before is remote.
in the computation of taxable profit, and tax, EPS or Total Shareholder Return TSR is accounted for using the balance sheet targets.
Accordingly, the fair value of awards Exceptional items liability method.
is determined using a combination of the binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing Deferred tax is determined using tax rates Exceptional items are items that are unusual models.
The value of the charge is adjusted and laws that have been enacted or because of their size, nature or incidence at each balance sheet date to reflect lapses.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet and which the directors consider should Where the Monte Carlo option pricing model date and are expected to apply when the be disclosed separately to enable a full is used to determine fair value of the TSR related deferred tax asset is realised or the understanding of the groups results.
component, no adjustment is made to reflect deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax expected or actual levels of vesting as the is also provided on temporary differences probability of the awards vesting is taken into arising on investments in subsidiaries, account in the initial calculation of the fair except where the timing of the reversal value of the awards.
of the temporary difference is controlled by the company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the future.
138 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements However, on the basis that the payment Judgement is applied to determine the Supplementary information performance of customers could be quantum of such liabilities, particularly those different from the assumptions used in relating to future claims volumes, including In order to assist users of the financial estimating future cash flows, a material making assumptions regarding the number statements, supplementary commentary adjustment to the carrying value of of future complaints that will be received has been provided within the financial amounts receivable from customers may and the extent to which they will be upheld, statements within highlighted boxes.
be required: and average restitution payments and related This supplementary information does administrative costs.
Past experience is not form part of the statutory, audited To the extent that the net present value used as a predictor of future expectations financial statements.
of estimated future cash flows differs by with management applying overlays where 1%, it is estimated that the amounts necessary depending on the nature and receivable from customers would be Critical accounting circumstances of any restitution programme.
approximately 23m 2016: 23m assumptions and key sources higher lower.
Given the recent trading The total amount provided for redress performance of the home credit business, represents the groups best estimate of the ofestimation uncertainty the suitability of the 1% sensitivity likely future cost.
However a number of risks has been reviewed and considered and uncertainties remain in particular with In applying the accounting policies set appropriate given ongoing improvement respect to future claim volumes outside of out above, the group and company make in collections performance and the linear any settlement agreed with the FCA.
The cost judgements other than those involving relationship of the impact.
could differ from the groups estimates estimates that have a significant impact and the assumptions underpinning them, on the amounts recognised and to make and could result in a further provision estimates and assumptions that affect the Retirement benefit asset 102.3m being required.
reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty: The estimates and assumptions are based Key sources of estimation uncertainty: on historical experience, actual results may The valuation of the retirement benefit differ from these estimates.
There is significant uncertainty around asset is dependent upon a series of the impact of the proposed regulatory assumptions: the key assumptions being changes, FCA media campaign and Claims Amounts receivable from mortality rates, the discount rate applied Management Companies and customer customers 2,309.4m to liabilities and inflation rates.
The most activity: and significant assumption which could lead The group reviews its portfolio of loans and to material adjustment is a change in Sensitivity analysis of the groups main receivables for impairment at each balance mortality rates: and assumptions is set out in note 24. sheet date.
For the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer loans and Mortality estimates are based on receivables, customers are categorised standard mortality tables, adjusted where into arrears stages and cohorts which are appropriate to reflect the groups own considered to be the most reliable indication expected experience.
Discount rates of future payment performance.
The group are based on the market yields of high makes assumptions to determine whether quality corporate bonds which have there is objective evidence which indicates terms closely linked with the estimated that there has been an adverse effect on term of the retirement benefit obligation.
Inflation assumptions reflect longterm market expectations for retail Customer accounts in Vanquis Bank, price inflation.
Moneybarn and on the Satsuma monthly Sensitivity analysis of the groups main product are deemed to be impaired when assumptions is set out in note 19. one contractual monthly payment has been missed.
In CCD receivables are deemed to be impaired when the cumulative amount of two Provisions for customer restitution or more contractual weekly payments have costs 104.6m been missed in the previous 12 weeks, since Provisions for customer restitution only at this point do the expected future cash are established based on the following flows from loans deteriorate significantly.
conditions being present: i a present Key sources of estimation uncertainty: obligation legal or constructive has arisen as a result of a past event: ii payment is The level of impairment in each of the probable more likely than not : and iii groups businesses is calculated using the amount can be estimated reliably.
models which use historical payment Judgement is applied to determine whether performance to generate the estimated the criteria for establishing a provision have amount and timing of future cash flows been met, including obtaining legal advice from each arrears stage, and are regularly from the groups lawyers.
Any provisions tested using subsequent cash collections established are based on either: i the to ensure they retain sufficient accuracy.
basis of any settlement agreed with the The impairment models are regularly FCA: ii any future claims which may arise reviewed to take account of the current outside the settlement agreement reached economic environment, product mix and with the FCA: and iii the expected costs of recent customer payment performance.
