262 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Alternative Performance Measures The Group analyses its performance on an underlying basis, as described in the basis of preparation of the financial results on page 48, and reconciled to the statutory results in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
These are consistent with the Board and the Executives view of the Groups underlying performance without the distortions of items and timing differences which are not reflective of the Groups ongoing business activities.
The Group also calculates a number of metrics that are commonly used and reported throughout the banking industry on an underlying basis, as these provide the Board and the Executive with a consistent view of these measures from period to period and provide relevant information to investors and other external stakeholders.
Descriptions of alternative performance measures used throughout this Report, including their basis of calculation, are set out below.
Banking Net Interest Margin NIM Net interest income, calculated on an underlying basis, as a percentage of simple average interest-earning banking assets.
Cost of funds spread Funding costs divided by average funding balances less the average 3 month Libor interest rate for the period.
Cost of risk Impairment charges, net of debt recoveries, divided by simple average gross loans for the period.
Cost:income ratio Operating expenses divided by total income, calculated on an underlying basis.
JAWS The difference between the period on period percentage change in total income less the period on period change in operating expenses calculated on an underlying basis.
Loan-to-deposit ratio The ratio of loans and advances to customers, net of allowances for impairment, divided by customer deposits each excluding adjustments for fair value of portfolio hedging.
Net interest margin NIM Net interest income, calculated on an underlying basis, as a percentage of simple average interest-earning assets.
Return on assets Profit attributable to equity owners divided by closing total assets.
Return on tangible equity RoTE Underlying profit before tax adjusted to deduct distributions to Additional Tier 1 securities less tax calculated using the statutory effective tax rate of the Group, divided by simple average tangible equity.
Tangible equity is calculated as total equity less other equity instruments and intangible assets.
Tangible net asset value per share Net assets excluding intangible assets and Additional Tier 1 securities divided by the closing number of Ordinary Shares excluding own shares held.
Underlying basic earnings per Underlying profit before tax adjusted to deduct distributions to Additional Tier 1 securities less tax share calculated using the statutory effective tax rate of the Group, divided by the weighted-average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the period excluding own shares held.
Underlying net interest income Statutory net interest income adjusted for a subset of certain items as detailed on page 48.
Underlying profit loss before tax Statutory profit loss before tax adjusted for certain items as detailed on page 48.
Underlying return on assets Underlying profit before tax adjusted to deduct distributions to Additional Tier 1 securities less tax calculated using the statutory effective tax rate of the Group, divided by a simple average total assets.
Underlying total income Statutory total income adjusted for a subset of certain items as detailed on page 48.
The Group also discloses a number of capital and liquidity metrics relevant to its financial position for which calculation is required under prudential rules issued by the PRA and FCA, in line with requirements of UK EU legislation and Basel III.
The bases of calculation of those metrics is defined within the relevant legislation for example CRD IV and are disclosed in the Glossary.
