Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 207 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1: Basis of preparation and accounting policies disclosures have been provided in the notes to these financial 1.1 Reporting entity statements on liabilities included within financing activities Virgin Money Holdings UK plc the Company is a public in the consolidated and parent cash flow statements.
limited company incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
The registered office is Jubilee House, Gosforth, New accounting standards issued by the IASB that are Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, NE3 4PL.
relevant to the Group and effective in future periods are presented in note 37.
The Company was incorporated on 4 August 1995 as a private limited company with registered number 03087587.
1.4 Presentation of information On 24 July 2014 the Company was re-registered as a public Presentation of risk and capital management disclosures limited company.
Disclosures under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure The Company is the parent entity and the ultimate controlling concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to party of the Virgin Money Group the Group, which consists of financial instruments and under IAS 1 Presentation of the Company and its subsidiaries.
financial statements concerning objectives, policies and processes for managing capital have been included within 1.2 Basis of preparation the audited sections of the Risk Management Report.
Where The Group consolidated financial statements, which should marked as audited these are covered by the Independent be read in conjunction with the Directors Report, have Auditors Report.
been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1.5 Basis of consolidation as adopted by the EU, including interpretations issued The Group consists of the Company and its subsidiaries.
by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, and with those The subsidiaries are listed in note 2 of the parent company parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements reporting under IFRS.
comprise the financial statements of the Group.
IFRS comprises accounting standards prefixed IFRS issued Entities are regarded as subsidiaries where the Group has the by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns those prefixed IAS issued by the IASBs predecessor body from its involvement with the investee and the ability to affect as well as interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations those returns.
Inter-company transactions and balances are Committee IFRS IC and its predecessor body.
Subsidiaries are consolidated EU endorsed version of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: from the date on which control is transferred to the Group Recognition and Measurement relaxes some of the hedge and are fide-consolidated from the date that power over an accounting requirements: the Group has not taken advantage investee, exposure or rights to variable returns and the ability of this relaxation, and therefore there is no difference in to affect these returns ceases.
Accounting policies are applied application to the Group between IFRS as adopted by the EU consistently across the Group.
and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Special Purpose Vehicles SPV are entities created to The Directors have reviewed the strategic plan which shows accomplish a narrow and well defined objective.
For the the financial position, cash flow, liquidity and capital forecasts Group this is the securitisation of mortgage assets.
The Directors are confident that the Group consolidated if the Group has control over the SPV, through will have sufficient resources to meet its liabilities as they its exposure to variable returns from its involvement in the fall due and to continue to operate for a period of at least 12 SPV and the ability to affect those returns through its power months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Accordingly the Directors believe that it remains appropriate The Virgin Money Foundation is classified as an associate.
to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
1.6 Basis of measurement 1.3 Changes in accounting policy The financial statements have been prepared under the New standards, amendments to standards and historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation interpretations adopted of derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale In 2017, the Group adopted amendments to existing standards financial assets held at fair value.
A summary of the material that were endorsed for adoption by the EU and mandatory for accounting policies of the Group are included within note 1.9. annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
Policies which are relevant to the financial statements as a The adoption of the amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes had whole are set out below.
no impact on these financial statements or the accounting The accounting policies have been applied consistently to all polices applied in their preparation.
In adopting the periods presented in these financial statements.
amendments to IAS 7 Statement of cash flows reconciliation
