250 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 37: Future accounting developments continued The Group continues to monitor the wider market b IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with developments in relation to IFRS 9, including evolving Customers Effective 1 January 2018, EU disclosure requirements and regulatory developments such as endorsed on 22 September 2016 potential capital transitionary rules.
IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts as a comprehensive standard to address Impact of transition to IFRS 9 current inconsistencies in accounting practice for revenue The Group will record an adjustment to its opening recognition.
Financial instruments and other contractual 1 January 2018 retained earnings to reflect the application rights or obligations within the scope of IFRS 9 are excluded of the new requirements of IFRS 9 and will not restate from the scope of this standard.
The Group estimates the transition to IFRS 9 will reduce The Group has reviewed the requirements of the new standard shareholders equity by approximately 35 million after and it is not expected to have a significant impact, as a deferred tax as at 1 January 2018.
The impact on the substantial proportion of the Groups income is generated Groups CET1 ratio will reflect the recently published capital from financial instruments.
This adjustment arises from the c IFRS 16 Leases Effective 1 January increase in the Groups balance sheet loan loss allowances 2019, EU endorsed on 31 October 2017 as a result of the application of IFRS 9 requirements, with This standard replaces IAS 17 Leases and will result in most the Groups retail credit card portfolio being the most leases for lessees being brought on to the Balance Sheet significantly impacted.
under a single lease model, removing the distinction between The Group continues to refine, monitor and validate certain finance and operating leases.
It requires a lessee to recognise elements of the impairment models and related controls a right-of-use asset and a lease liability.
Lessor accounting ahead of full reporting of IFRS 9 impacts later in 2018. remains largely unchanged.
This will mainly impact properties the Group currently accounts for as operating leases.
A project is in place and the Group is currently undertaking a review of its lease agreements.
No decisions have been made yet in relation to transition options.
Note 38: Country by country reporting The Capital Requirements Country by Country Reporting Regulations came into effect on 1 January 2014 and place certain reporting obligations on financial institutions within CRD IV.
The activities of the Group are described in the Strategic Report.
All companies consolidated within the Groups financial statements are UK registered entities.
UK Number of employees average FTE 2,959 Turnover total income 662.7m Pre-tax profit 262.6m Corporation tax paid 45.1m Public subsidies received 0.0m The Group received no public subsidies during the year.
