248 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 35: Related party transactions continued of support services to the Foundation on a pro bono basis, Trademark licence fees paid to Virgin including use of facilities and employee time.
The estimated Enterprises Limited gift in kind for support services provided during the year was Licence fees are payable to Virgin Enterprises Limited for the 0.4 million 2016: 0.3 million.
use of the Virgin Money brand trademark.
Dividend payment to Virgin Group Holdings Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited Limited The Group receives credit card commissions and incurs air The Group made dividend payments totalling 8.4 million to mile charges to Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited VAA in Virgin Group Holdings Limited in the year which represented respect of an agreement between the two parties.
that companys proportionate share of the total final 2016 In June 2017 an agreement was signed with VAA which will dividend and the total interim 2017 dividend.
In the prior year, give rise to related party transactions in future periods.
An the Group made dividend payments totalling 7.3 million asset and liability has been recognised during the year in to Virgin Group Holdings Limited, which represented that relation to a committed payment under this agreement.
companys proportionate share of the total final 2015 dividend Donations to The Virgin Money Foundation and the total interim 2016 dividend.
the Foundation Other costs paid to Virgin Management The Group has made donations to the Foundation in both the Group Companies current and prior year to enable the Foundation to pursue its These costs include transactions with other companies in charitable objectives.
The Group has also provided a number the Virgin Group.
Note 36: Events after balance sheet date There have been no significant events between 31 December 2017 and the date of approval of the financial statements which would require a change or additional disclosure in the financial statements.
Note 37: Future accounting developments A number of new accounting standards and amendments to is based on the objectives of the entitys business model for accounting standards have been issued by the IASB, however managing its financial assets and the contractual cash flow are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by characteristics of the instruments.
IFRS 9 retains most of the the Group.
Those which may be relevant to the Group are existing classification requirements for financial liabilities.
In relation to Classification and Measurement, IFRS 9 will not result in a significant change to current asset and liability a IFRS 9 Financial instruments measurement bases.
The Groups debt security investment Effective 1 January 2018, EU endorsed on portfolio, which is classified as Available-for-Sale under 22November 2016 IAS 39, will be reclassified into the FVOCI category on Background 1 January 2018, with no change in measurement basis and In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 no impact to the Groups financial position.
The Groups Financial Instruments which replaces IAS 39 Financial small number of equity investments, which are classified as Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
This new Available-for-Sale under IAS 39, will be reclassified to either accounting standard is effective from 1 January 2018 and has FVOCI or FVTPL on a case by case basis, with no change in three core areas of change: Classification and Measurement: measurement basis.
The most significant impacts on the Group are from the changes to impairment.
Hedge Accounting The hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 are more closely Classification and Measurement aligned with risk management practices and follow a more The Classification and Measurement requirements of IFRS9 principle-based approach.
IFRS 9 includes an accounting require financial assets to be classified into one of three policy choice to maintain existing IAS 39 hedge accounting measurement categories, fair value through profit or loss rules until the IASB completes its project on macro hedging.
FVTPL, fair value through other comprehensive income The Group has decided to apply this accounting policy choice FVOCI and amortised cost.
For financial assets classification and will continue applying IAS 39 hedge accounting.
Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 249 I Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 37: Future accounting developments continued Impairment Expected Credit Loss Qualitative measures include the observation of specific The impairment requirements of IFRS 9 replaces the existing events such as short-term forbearance, payment cancellation, incurred loss impairment approach with an expected credit historical arrears or extension to customer terms.
loss approach, resulting in earlier recognition of credit losses.
IFRS 9 includes a rebuttable presumption that 30 days past The IFRS 9 impairment model has three stages.
Entities are due is an indicator of a significant increase in credit risk.
required to recognise a 12 month expected loss allowance The Group considers 30 days past due to be an appropriate on initial recognition stage 1 and a lifetime expected loss backstop measure and will not rebut this presumption.
allowance when there has been a significant increase in credit Definition of default movement to stage 3 risk stage 2.
The Group has identified a series of quantitative and Stage 3 requires objective evidence that an asset is creditqualitative criteria that will be used to determine if an impaired, which is similar to the guidance on incurred losses account meets the definition of default, and therefore should in IAS 39.
Loan commitments and financial guarantees not move to stage 3: measured at fair value through profit or loss are also in scope IFRS 9 includes a rebuttable presumption that 90 days past for impairment.
The assessment of whether a significant due is an indicator of default.
The Group considers 90 days increase in credit risk has occurred is a key aspect of the past due to be an appropriate measure of default and will not IFRS 9 methodology.
It involves quantitative and qualitative rebut this presumption.
measures and therefore requires considerable management judgement.
In addition IFRS 9 also requires the use of more Qualitative measures include the observation of specific forward-looking information including reasonable and events such as insolvency or enforcement activity.
supportable forecasts of future economic conditions.
Forward-looking information and multiple economic Key accounting judgements scenarios The Group undertook a full technical assessment of IFRS 9 The assessment of significant increase in credit risk and the which highlighted certain significant accounting policies and calculation of expected credit loss both incorporate forwardjudgements.
These areas include the selection of quantitative looking information.
The Group has identified the most and qualitative criteria for the determination of significant significant macroeconomic factors including house price increase in credit risk and the application of forward-looking inflation, unemployment rate and Bank Base Rate.
These data into the expected credit loss calculations, including variables and their associated impact on PD, EAD and LGD multiple economic scenarios.
The following summarises have been factored into the credit loss models.
the key accounting judgements the Group will apply on The Group has determined an approach to the selection and adoption of IFRS 9: application of multiple scenarios.
The Group does not have Measurement of Expected Credit Loss an in-house economics function and will therefore source Expected credit loss is measured on either a 12 month or economic scenarios from a third party source to form the lifetime basis depending on whether a significant increase in basis of the economic scenarios used.
The Group will consider credit risk has occurred since initial recognition or whether a minimum of three scenarios on a probability-weighted the asset meets the definition of default.
These scenarios include a base, an upside and a is the product of the probability of default PD, exposure at downside scenario.
default EAD and loss given default LGD, discounted at the IFRS 9 implementation programme and governance effective interest rate.
The Group has managed the transition to IFRS 9 through Significant Increase in Credit Risk movement from stage 1 an IFRS 9 delivery programme to ensure a high-quality to stage 2 implementation in compliance with the accounting and The Group has identified a series of quantitative, qualitative regulatory guidance.
The Audit Committee has had oversight and backstop criteria that will be used to determine if an responsibility for the implementation of IFRS 9. account has demonstrated a significant increase in credit risk, The Group has developed and built new expected credit loss and therefore should move from stage 1 to stage 2: models for the key retail portfolios secured and unsecured.
Quantitative measures consider the increase in an accounts The Group has run these models during the second half of remaining lifetime PD compared to the expected residual 2017 in a period of parallel run to ensure full readiness in lifetime PD when the account was originated.
The Group advance of implementation from 1 January 2018.
The Group will segment its credit portfolios into PD bands and has is in the process of completing the refinement and validation determined a relevant threshold for each PD band, where of these models.
The Groups auditors have undertaken a movement in excess of threshold is considered to be extensive audit procedures during the course of 2017 to significant.
These thresholds have been determined separately provide proactive assurance over the new expected credit loss for each portfolio based on historical evidence of delinquency.
models and the Groups IFRS 9 accounting policies.
