Notes to the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements 28.
Share capital, other equity instruments and reserves continued Reserves continued Available-for-sale reserve represents the unrealised fair value gains and losses in respect of financial assets classi ed as available-for-sale, net of taxation.
Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve and are reclassi ed to the income statement when the underlying asset is sold, matures or becomes impaired Cash ow hedge reserve represents the effective portion of the gains and losses on derivatives that meet the criteria for these types of hedges.
Gains and losses are deferred in this reserve and are reclassi ed to the income statement when the underlying hedged item affects pro t and loss or when a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur Translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the Group in foreign operations.
Since 1 January 2004, gains and losses are deferred to this reserve and are reclassi ed to the income statement when the underlying foreign operation is disposed.
Gains and losses arising from derivatives used as hedges of net investments are netted against the foreign exchange gains and losses on translation of the net investment of the foreign operations Retained earnings represents pro ts and other comprehensive income earned by the Group and Company in the current and prior periods, together with the after tax increase relating to equity-settled share options, less dividend distributions and own shares held treasury shares A substantial part of the Groups reserves are held in overseas subsidiary undertakings and branches, principally to support local operations or to comply with local regulations.
The maintenance of local regulatory capital ratios could potentially restrict the amount of reserves which can be remitted.
In addition, if these overseas reserves were to be remitted, further unprovided taxation liabilities might arise As at 31 December 2017, the distributable reserves of Standard Chartered PLC the Company were $15.1 billion 2016: $15.2 billion.
These comprised retained earnings and $12.5 billion of the merger reserve account.
Distribution of reserves is subject to maintaining minimum capital requirements.
Own shares Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited is the trustee of the 2004 Employee Bene t Trust 2004 Trust and Ocorian Trustees Jersey Limited formerly known as Bedell Trustees Limited is the trustee of the 1995 Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust 1995 Trust.
The 2004 Trust is used in conjunction with the Groups employee share schemes and the 1995 Trust is used for the delivery of other employee share-based payments such as upfront shares and xed pay allowances.
Group companies fund these trusts from time to time to enable the trustees to acquire shares to satisfy these arrangements.
Except as disclosed, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has bought, sold or redeemed any securities of the company listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited during the period.
Details of the shares purchased and held by the trusts are set out below.
Non-controlling interests Accounting policy Non-controlling interests are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identi able net assets.
$million At 1 January 2016 321 Loss in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 11 Other pro ts attributable to non-controlling interests 56 Comprehensive income for the year 45 Distributions 37 1 Other decreases 8 At 31 December 2016 321 Income in equity attributable to non-controlling interests 1 Other pro ts attributable to non-controlling interests 49 Comprehensive income for the year 50 Distributions 51 2 Other increases 21 At 31 December 2017 341 1 Mainly due to completion of sale of businesses with non-controlling interest in Pakistan and issuance of shares to non-controlling interest in Angola 2 Mainly due to additional shares issued including the premium by Nepal $12 million and $9 million with respect to an acquisition during 2017 Standard Chartered 264 Annual Report 2017
