Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Mines and production facilities Group mines as at 31 December 2017 Rio Tintos interest 100% unless otherwise shown Mine Location Access Title lease Iron Ore Hamersley Iron Pilbara region, Railway and port owned Agreements for life of mine with Government of Brockman 2 Western Australia by Hamersley Iron and operated by Western Australia, save for the Yandicoogina Brockman 4 Pilbara Iron mining lease, which expires in 2018 with two options to extend of 21 years each.
Marandoo Mount Tom Price Nammuldi Paraburdoo Silvergrass Western Turner Syncline Yandicoogina Eastern Range 54% Channar 60% Pilbara region, Western Railway and port owned by Mining lease expires in 2028 with an option Australia Hamersley Iron and operated to extend by five years.
by Pilbara Iron Hope Downs 1 50% Pilbara region, Western Railway and port owned by Mining lease expires in 2027 with two options Australia Hamersley Iron and Robe River to extend of 21 years each.
and operated by Pilbara Iron Hope Downs 4 50% Pilbara region, Western Railway and port owned by Mining lease expires in 2027 with two options Australia Hamersley Iron and Robe River to extend of 21 years each.
and operated by Pilbara Iron Robe River Iron Associates 53% Pilbara region, Western Railway and port owned by Agreements for life of mine with Government Australia Robe River and operated of Western Australia.
Robe Valley Mesa A and Mesa J by Pilbara Iron West Angelas Aluminium Bauxite CBG Sangaredi 22.95% Sangaredi, Guinea Road, air and port Mining concession expires in 2040.
Gove Gove, Northern Road, air and port All leases were renewed in 2011 for a further Territory, Australia period of 42 years.
The residue disposal area is leased from the Arnhem Land Aboriginal Land Trust.
The Northern Territory government is the lessor of the balance of the leases: however, on expiry of the 42-year renewed term, the land subject of the balances of the leases will all vest to the Arnhem Land Aboriginal Land Trust.
MRN Porto Trombetas 12% Porto Trombetas, Para, Air or port Mining concession granted under the Brazilian Brazil mining code with no expiration date.
Weipa Ely Weipa, Queensland, Road, air and port The Queensland Government Comalco ML7024 Australia lease expires in 2042 with an option of a 21-year extension, then two years notice of termination: the Queensland Government Alcan lease ML7031 expires in 2048 with a 21-year right of renewal with a two-year notice period.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information History Type of mine Power source Mount Tom Price began operations in 1966, followed by Paraburdoo in 1974.
In the 1990s, Open pit Supplied through the integrated Channar, Brockman 2, Marandoo and Yandicoogina achieved first ore.
Annual capacity Hamersley and Robe power increased to 68 million tonnes during the 1990s and has more than doubled in the past network operated by Pilbara Iron 25 years.
Since 2000, Eastern Ranges, Nammuldi, Brockman 4 and Western Turner Syncline have joined the network of Hamersley Iron mines.
The browneld mine expansion at such sites as Paraburdoo, Brockman 2, Nammuldi and Yandicoogina will enable production to meet expanded port and rail capacity in the coming years.
The Channar Mining Joint Venture, signed in 1987, was the first large-scale mining initiative Open pit Supplied through the integrated between China and Australia.
The joint venture is 60% owned by Rio Tinto through Hamersley Hamersley and Robe power Iron and 40% by Sinosteel Corporation.
It has delivered more than 250 million tonnes to China.
network operated by Pilbara Iron Joint venture between Rio Tinto and Hancock Prospecting.
Construction of Open pit Supplied through the integrated Stage 1 to 22 million tonnes per annum commenced 2006 and first production Hamersley and Robe power occurred 2007.
Stage 2 to 30 million tonnes per annum completed 2009. network operated by Pilbara Iron Joint venture between Rio Tinto and Hancock Prospecting.
Construction of wet plant processing to Open pit Supplied through the integrated 15 million tonnes per annum commenced 2011 and first production occurred 2013.
Hamersley and Robe power network operated by Pilbara Iron First shipment in 1972 from Robe Valley.
Interest acquired in 2000 through North.
First ore Open pit Supplied through the integrated was shipped from West Angelas in 2002.
In 2017, total production of the Robe River Iron Hamersley and Robe power Associates joint venture was 65 million tonnes.
network operated by Pilbara Iron Bauxite mining commenced in 1973.
Shareholders are 51% Halco and 49% Government of Open cut On-site generation fuel oil Guinea.
Rio Tinto holds a 45% interest in Halco.
Rated production capacity is 13.5 million tonnes per annum and actual annual production in 2017 was 15.6 million tonnes on a dry basis.
Rio Tinto currently benets from approximately 45% of the mines production.
Expansion of the CBG bauxite mine, processing plant and associated infrastructure is under way, increasing production capacity from 13.5 to 18.5 million tonnes per annum by 2018.
CBG options beyond 18.5 million tonnes per annum.
is currently studying other expansion Bauxite mining commenced in 1970, feeding both the Gove renery and export market, Open cut On-site diesel red power station capped at two million tonnes per annum.
Bauxite export ceased in 2006 with feed intended for the expanded Gove renery.
Bauxite exports recommenced in 2008 and will increase in the coming years following the curtailment of the renery production in 2014 and permanent shut decision made by the board of Rio Tinto in October 2017.
Current annual production capacity is 11.2 million tonnes on a dry basis.
Initial production capacity 3.4 million tonnes annually.
Open cut On-site generation diesel From 2003, production capacity up to 16.3 million tonnes per year on a dry basis.
Capital structure currently: Vale 40%, BHP Billiton 14.8%, Rio Tinto 12%, CBA 10%, Alcoa Abalco 18.2%, and Norsk Hydro 5%.
Bauxite mining commenced in 1961 at Weipa.
Rio Tinto Open cut On-site generation diesel interest increased from 72.4% to 100% in 2000.
In 1997, Ely Bauxite Mining Project supplemented by a solar Agreement signed with local Aboriginal land owners.
Bauxite Mining and Exchange Agreement generation facility signed in 1998 with Comalco to allow for extraction of ore at Ely.
The Western Cape Communities Co-Existence Agreement, an Indigenous Land Use Agreement, was signed in 2001.
The annual production of the Weipa mine has now reached 30.9 million tonnes following the execution of a series of projects since 2004.
Approval for the Amrun project was granted in 2015 and it is in construction.
Construction will take approximately three years.
Amrun is expected to extend the Weipa mine life by approximately 40 years.
com 243 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Mines and production facilities continued Group mines as at 31 December 2017 Rio Tintos interest 100% unless otherwise shown Mine Location Access Title lease Copper & Diamonds Copper Escondida 30% Atacama Desert, Chile Pipeline and road to Rights conferred by Government under Chilean Mining deep sea port at Coloso: Code.
road and rail Grasberg joint venture agreement Papua, Indonesia Pipeline, road and port Indonesian Government Contracts of Work expire in 2021 40% share of production above specified with option of two ten-year extensions.
levels Rio Tinto Kennecott Bingham Canyon Near Salt Lake City, Utah, Pipeline, road and rail Owned.
US Oyu Tolgoi 51% of Turquoise Hill Gobi Desert, Mongolia Air and road Three mining licences are held by Oyu Tolgoi LLC and two Resources Ltd. which owns 66% of Oyu further licences are held in joint venture with Entre Gold Tolgoi LLC LLC.
The licence term under the Minerals Law of Mongolia is 30 years with two 20-year extensions.
First renewals are due in 2033 and 2039 for the Oyu Tolgoi and Entre Gold licences respectively.
Diamonds Argyle Diamonds Kimberley Ranges, Road and air Mining tenement held under Diamond Argyle Diamond Western Australia Mines Joint Venture Agreement Act 1981: lease extended for 21 years from 2004 with option to renew.
Diavik 60% Northwest Territories Air, ice road in winter Mining leases are issued by the NWT Government.
One NWT, Canada lease was renewed in 2017 and two leases were renewed in February 2018.
The new leases will expire after 21 years.
Energy & Minerals Coal Queensland, Australia Road, rail, conveyor Leases granted by Government of Queensland.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia and port Hail Creek 82% Kestrel 80% Industrial minerals Dampier Salt 68.4% Dampier, Lake MacLeod and Road and port State agreements mining leases expiring in 2034 at Port Hedland, Dampier, 2018 at Port Hedland and 2021 at Lake Western Australia MacLeod, with options to renew at the latter two sites.
Rio Tinto Borates Boron California, US Road and rail Owned.
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Lac Tio Havre-Saint-Pierre, Quebec, Rail and port St Lawrence River Mining covered by two concessions granted by Quebec Canada State in 1949 and 1951 which, subject to certain Mining Act restrictions, confer rights and obligations of an owner.
QIT Madagascar Minerals 80% Fort-Dauphin, Road and port Mining lease granted by central government.
Madagascar Richards Bay Minerals 74% Richards Bay, KwaZuluRail, road and port Mineral rights for Reserve 4 and Reserve 10 issued by Natal, South Africa South African State and converted to new order mining rights from 9 May 2012.
Mining rights run until 8 May 2041 for both lease areas.
Iron ore Iron Ore Company of Canada IOC Labrador City, Railway and port facilities Sublease with the Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation, 58.7% Province of Labrador and in Sept-les, Quebec owned and operated which has lease agreements with the Government of Newfoundland by IOC Newfoundland and Labrador that are due to be renewed in 2020, 2022, 2025 and 2031.
Uranium Energy Resources of Australia 68.4% Northern Territory, Road, rail and port Mining tenure granted by Federal Government.
Ranger Australia Rssing Uranium 68.6% Erongo Region, Namibia Rail, road and port Mining licence granted by Namibian State.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information History Type of mine Power source Production started in 1990 and since then capacity has been expanded numerous times.
In 1998 Open pit Supplied from SING grid under first cathode was produced from the oxide leach plant, and during 2006 the sulphide leach plant various contracts with local was inaugurated, a year after the start of Escondida Norte pit production.
During 2016, the third generating companies concentrator plant was commissioned.
Capacity expanded to over 200,000 tonnes of ore per day in Open pit and underground Long-term contract with 1998.
Addition of underground production of more than 35,000 tonnes per day in 2003.
US-Indonesian consortium Expansion to 50,000 tonnes per day in mid-2007 and to 80,000 tonnes in 2010. operated purpose-built coalred generating station Interest acquired in 1989.
In 2012, the pushback of the south wall commenced, extending the Open pit On-site generation supplemented by mine life from 2018 to 2032. long-term contracts with Rocky Mountain Power Oyu Tolgoi was first discovered in 1996.
Construction began in late 2009 after signing of an Open pit and underground Grid power from China and Investment Agreement with the Government of Mongolia, and first concentrate was produced in supplementary diesel power 2012.
First sales of concentrate were made to Chinese customers in 2013. generation site Interest increased from 59.7% following purchase of Ashton Mining in 2000.
Underground mine Underground previously Long-term contract with Ord Hydro project approved in 2005 to extend mine life to 2020. open pit Consortium and on-site generation Deposits discovered 1994-1995.
Diamond production started Underground previously On-site diesel generators: installed 2003.
Second dike closed off in 2005 for mining of additional orebody.
The underground mine open pit capacity 44MW and 9.2MW of wind started production in 2010, ramping up to full production in 2013. capacity Kestrel Mine in Queensland, Rio Tinto Coal Australias sole underground mine, wasacquired and Open cut and underground State-owned grid recommissioned in 1999, and Hail Creek Mine in Queensland was of cially opened in 2003.
On 31 May 2017 Rio Tinto completed the sale of Blair Athol Mine, which had ceased operations in 2012.
Rio Tinto completed the sale of Coal & Allied Industries Limited on 1 September 2017, its thermal coal business in New South Wales, which held interests in Hunter Valley Operations 67.6%, Mount Thorley Operations 80% and Warkworth 55.57%.
Construction of the Dampier eld started in 1969: first shipment in 1972.
Solar evaporation of seawater Dampier supply from Hamersley Iron Lake MacLeod was acquired in 1978 as an operating eld.
Port Hedland was acquired in 2001 as Dampier Pty Ltd: Lake MacLeod from Horizon an operating eld.
and Port Hedland and Power and on-site generation units: underground Port Hedland from Horizon Power brine Lake MacLeod : extraction of gypsum from surface of Lake MacLeod On-site co-generation units and Deposit discovered in 1925 and acquired by Rio Tinto in 1967.
Open pit local power grid Production started 1950: interest acquired in 1989.
Open pit Provincial power grid at regulated tariff Exploration project started in 1986: construction approved 2005.
Ilmenite and zirsil production Mineral sand dredging On-site heavy fuel oil generators started 2008.
QMM intends to extract ilmenite and zirsil from heavy mineral sands over an area of about 6,000 hectares along the coast over the next 40 years.
Production started 1977: initial interest acquired 1989.
Fifth mining plant commissioned in 2000.
Dune sand dredging Contract with ESKOM One mining plant decommissioned in 2008.
In September 2012, Rio Tinto doubled its holding in Richards Bay Minerals to 74% following the acquisition of BHP Billitons entire interests.
Current operation began in 1962 Open pit Supplied by Newfoundland Hydro and has processed over one billion tonnes of crude ore since.
Annual capacity 23.3 million tonnes of concentrate of which 12.5 million tonnes can be pelletised.
Interest acquired through acquisition of North 2000.
Open pit mining Stockpile On-site diesel generation ended 2012, since when ERA has been processing ore stockpiles.
Open pit Supplied by NamPower via grid network 98 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 245 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Mines and production facilities continued Group smelters and refineries Rio Tintos interest 100% unless otherwise shown Capacity as of 31 December 2017 based on 100% Smelter refinery Location Title lease Plant type product ownership Aluminium Alma Alma, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 466,000 tonnes per year aluminium rod, t-foundry, molten aluminium metal, high purity, remelt Alouette 40% Sept-les, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 606,000 tonnes per year aluminium high purity, remelt aluminium Aluminium smelter producing 171,000 tonnes per year Arvida Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold aluminium billet, molten metal, aluminium remelt Arvida AP60 Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 60,000 tonnes per year aluminium high purity, remelt aluminium Bcancour 25.1% Bcancour, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 446,000 tonnes per year aluminium slab, billet, t-foundry, aluminium remelt, molten metal Bell Bay Bell Bay, Northern Tasmania, 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 195,000 tonnes per year Australia aluminium slab, molten metal, small aluminium form and t-foundry, remelt Boyne Smelters 59.4% Boyne Island, Queensland, 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 584,000 tonnes per year Australia aluminium billet, EC grade, small form aluminium and t-foundry, remelt Dunkerque Dunkerque, France 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 284,000 tonnes per year aluminium slab, small form foundry, aluminium remelt Grande-Baie Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 230,000 tonnes per year aluminium slab, molten metal, high aluminium purity, remelt ISAL Reykjavik, Iceland 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 212,000 tonnes per year aluminium remelt, billet aluminium Jonquire Vaudreuil Jonquire, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Refinery producing specialty alumina 1,570,000 tonnes per year and smelter grade alumina alumina Kitimat Kitimat, British Columbia, 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 432,000 tonnes per year Canada aluminium slab, remelt, high purity aluminium Laterrire Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 249,000 tonnes per year aluminium slab, remelt, molten metal aluminium Queensland Alumina 80% Gladstone, Queensland, 73.3% freehold: 26.7% Refinery producing alumina 3,950,000 tonnes per year Australia leasehold of which more than alumina 80% expires in 2026 and after So Luis Alumar 10% So Luis, Maranho, Brazil 100% freehold Refinery producing alumina 3,700,000 tonnes per year alumina Sohar 20% Sohar, Oman 100% leasehold expiring Aluminium smelter producing 389,000 tonnes per year 2039 aluminium, high purity, remelt aluminium Tiwai Point New Zealand Invercargill, Southland, New 19.6% freehold: 80.4% Aluminium smelter producing 373,000 tonnes per year Aluminium Smelters 79.4% Zealand leasehold expiring in 2029 and aluminium billet, slab, small form aluminium use of certain Crown land foundry, high purity, remelt Tomago 51.6% Tomago, New South Wales, 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing 590,000 tonnes per year Australia aluminium billet, slab, remelt aluminium Gladstone, Queensland, 97% freehold: 3% leasehold 3,200,000 tonnes per year Yarwun Refinery producing alumina Australia expiring 2101 and after alumina 99 246 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Capacity as of 31 December 2017 based on 100% Smelter refinery Location Title lease Plant type product ownership Copper & Diamonds Rio Tinto Kennecott Magna, Salt Lake City, 100% freehold Flash smelting furnace Flash 335,000 tonnes per year convertor furnace copper refined copper Utah, US refinery Energy & Minerals Boron California, US 100% freehold Borates refinery 576,000 tonnes per year boric oxide IOC Pellet Plant 58.7% Labrador City, 100% freehold asset, Pellet induration furnaces 12.5 million tonnes per Newfoundland and 100% leasehold land producing multiple iron ore pellet year pellet Labrador, Canada under sublease with types Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation for life of mine.
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Sorel Sorel-Tracy, Quebec, 100% freehold Ilmenite smelter 1,300,000 tonnes per year Plant Canada titanium dioxide slag, 1,000,000 tonnes per year iron Richards Bay Minerals 74% Richards Bay, South 100% freehold Ilmenite smelter 1,050,000 tonnes per year Africa titanium dioxide slag, 565,000 tonnes per year iron 100 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 247 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Mines and production facilities continued Information on Group power plants Rio Tintos interest 100% unless otherwise shown Capacity as of 31 December 2017 based on Location Plant type product Power plant Title lease 100% ownership Iron Ore Paraburdoo power station Paraburdoo, Western Lease Three LM6000PC gas-fired turbines 138MW Australia, Australia One Frame5 dual-fuel turbine Yurralyi Maya power Dampier, Western Miscellaneous licence Four LM6000PD gas-fired turbines 200MW station Australia, Australia One LM6000PF gas-fired turbine Rio Tinto: 84.2% dual-fuel potential West Angelas power West Angelas, Western Miscellaneous licence Two LM6000PF dual-fuel turbines 80MW station Australia, Australia Rio Tinto: 67% Aluminium Gladstone power station Gladstone, Queensland, 100% freehold Thermal power station 1,680MW 42% Australia Nhulunbuy, Northern Gove power station 100% leasehold Diesel generation 24MW Territory, Australia Kemano power station Kemano, British Columbia, 100% freehold Hydroelectric power 872.5MW Canada Quebec power stations Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold certain Hydroelectric power 3,147MW Chute--Caron, facilities leased from Quebec Government until 2058 Chute--laSavane, pursuant to Peribonka Lease Chute-des-Passes, Chute-du-Diable, Isle-Maligne, Shipshaw Yarwun alumina refinery Gladstone, Queensland, 100% freehold Gas turbine and heat recovery steam 160MW co-generation plant Australia generator Weipa power stations and Lorim Point, Andoom, and 100% leasehold Diesel generation supplemented by 38MW Weipa solar generation facility solar generation facility 101 248 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Capacity as of 31 December 2017 based on 100% Power plant Location Title lease Plant type product ownership Copper & Diamonds Rio Tinto Kennecott Salt Lake City, Utah, US 100% freehold Thermal power station 175MW power stations Steam turbine running off waste 31.8MW heat boilers at the copper smelter Combined heat and power plant 6.2MW supplying steam to the copper refinery Energy & Minerals Boron co-generation Boron, California, US 100% freehold Co-generation uses natural gas to 48MW plant generate steam and electricity, used to run Borons refining operations Energy Resources of Ranger Mine, Jabiru, Lease Five diesel generator sets rated at 35.4MW Australia Rio Tinto: Northern Territory, 5.1MW: one diesel generator set 68.4% Australia rated at 1.9MW: four diesel generator sets rated at 2MW IOC power station Sept les, Quebec, Canada Statutory grant Hydroelectric power 22MW QMM power plant Fort Dauphin, Madagascar 100% freehold Diesel generation 24MW 102 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 249 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information and Rio Tinto Limited are managed on a unified basis, to ensure that the Shareholder information boards of directors of each company are the same, and to give effect to certain arrangements designed to provide shareholders of each company with a common economic interest in the DLC structure.
To achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement provided for the Organisational structure ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution rights attached to each The Rio Tinto Group consists of Rio Tinto plc, which is registered in Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto Limited share to be fixed in an England and Wales under company number 719885 under the Equalisation Ratio that has remained unchanged at 1:1.
The Sharing UK Companies Act 2006, and is listed on the London Stock Exchange, Agreement has provided for this ratio to be revised in special and Rio Tinto Limited, which is registered in Australia under circumstances where, for example, certain modifications are made to the ABN 96 004 458 404 under the Australian Corporations Act 2001, share capital of one company, such as rights issues, bonus issues, share and is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
splits and share consolidations, but not to the share capital of the other.
Rio Tinto is headquartered in London and has a corporate office in Outside these specified circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can only be Melbourne.
altered with the approval of shareholders under the Class Rights Action approval procedure described under Voting rights below.
In addition, Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility and the underlying shares are any adjustments are required to be confirmed by the Groups registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and are external auditors.
listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Consistent with the creation of the DLC structure, directors of each Nomenclature and financial data company seek to act in the best interests of Rio Tinto as a whole.
The Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate together and are referred to in Class Rights Action approval procedure is intended to deal with instances this report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or, more simply, the Group.
where there may be a conflict of interest between the shareholders These collective expressions are used for convenience only, since both of each company.
companies, and the individual companies in which they directly or To ensure that the boards of both companies are identical, resolutions to indirectly own investments, are separate and distinct legal entities.
appoint or remove directors must be put to shareholders of both Limited, plc, Pty, Inc. Limitada, L. L. C. A. S. or SA have companies as a joint electorate as Joint Decisions as described under generally been omitted from Group company names, except to Voting rights.
It is a requirement of the constitution of each company that distinguish between Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial data in a person can only be a director of one company if that person is also a US dollars US$ is derived from, and should be read in conjunction with, director of the other company.
So, for example, if a person was removed the 2017 financial statements.
In general, financial data in pounds sterling as a director of Rio Tinto plc, he or she would also cease to be a director of and Australian dollars A$ have been translated from the Rio Tinto Limited.
consolidated financial statements and have been provided solely for One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject to a wide convenience: exceptions arise where data can be extracted directly from range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple jurisdictions.
Certain key information has been provided in all three Where these rules differ, Rio Tinto will comply at a minimum with the currencies in the 2017 financial statements.
History Dividend arrangements The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto plc was incorporated on 30 March 1962 then called Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that is The Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation Limited RTZ and was formed by the without taking into account any associated tax credits.
Dividends are merger of The Rio Tinto Company Limited and The Consolidated Zinc determined in US dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, translated Corporation Limited.
The Rio Tinto Company was incorporated in 1873 to and paid in sterling and Australian dollars.
The companies are also reopen ancient copper workings in Spain.
The Consolidated Zinc required to announce and pay their dividends and other distributions as Corporation Limiteds origins trace back to the Australian mining industry close in time to each other as possible.
in the early twentieth century.
Operating out of Broken Hill in In the unlikely event that one company did not have sufficient New South Wales, it came to prominence with the mining of silver, lead distributable reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised and zinc deposits and later expanded into lead and zinc smelting.
capital distribution, it would be entitled to receive a top-up payment from Rio Tinto Limited was incorporated on 17 December 1959 then called the other relevant company.
The top-up payment could be made as a The Rio Tinto Mining Company of Australia Pty Limited and in 1962 the dividend on the DLC Dividend Share, or by way of a contractual payment.
Australian interests of The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited and The Rio Tinto Company Limited were merged to form Conzinc Riotinto of If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law Australia Limited as a limited liability company under the laws of the applicable to one of the companies, they may depart from the State of Victoria, Australia.
In 1980, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited Equalisation Ratio.
However, should such a departure occur, the relevant changed its name to CRA Limited.
company will put aside reserves to be held for payment on the relevant shares at a later date.
Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA discovered important mineral deposits, developed major mining projects and also grew Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend through acquisition.
equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
RTZ and CRA began operating in 1995 through a dual listed companies The DLC Dividend Shares can also be utilised to provide the Group with structure.
In 1997, RTZ became Rio Tinto plc and CRA became flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to be paid Rio Tinto Limited.
between the companies and their subsidiaries.
Dual listed companies structure Voting arrangements In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the shareholders of In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the dual listed Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate on all companies merger the DLC structure, which was designed to place the matters that affect shareholders of both companies in similar ways.
shareholders of both companies in substantially the same position as if These are referred to as Joint Decisions.
Such Joint Decisions include the they held shares in a single entity owning all the assets of both creation of new classes of share capital, the appointment or removal of companies.
directors and auditors and the receiving of the annual financial statements.
All shareholder resolutions including Joint Decisions are Following the approval of the DLC structure, both companies entered into voted on a poll.
a DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement through which each company agreed to ensure that the businesses of Rio Tinto plc 103 250 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information The Sharing Agreement also provides for the protection of shareholders equivalent entitlements to the assets of the combined Group on a per of each company by requiring their separate approval for decisions that do share basis, taking account of the Equalisation Ratio.
not affect the shareholders of both companies equally.
Matters requiring The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to the this approval procedure are referred to as Class Rights Actions and are shareholders of either company upon liquidation of a company.
For example, fundamental elements of the DLC structure cannot be changed unless approved separately by shareholders of both Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations companies under the Class Rights Action approval procedure.
The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose restrictions and obligations on persons who control interests in publicly listed companies Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as where in excess of defined thresholds that, under certain circumstances, include legislation requires the separate approval of a decision by the appropriate obligations to make a public offer for all of the outstanding issued shares majority of shareholders in one company, and approval of the matter by of the relevant company.
The threshold applicable to Rio Tinto plc under shareholders of the other company is not required.
UK law and regulations is 30 per cent and to Rio Tinto Limited under Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint Decision Australian law and regulations is 20 per cent on a standalone basis or, or a Class Rights Action, the directors do not have the power to change taking into account only Rio Tinto plc interests, on a Joint Decision basis.
If a matter falls within both categories, it is treated as As part of the DLC merger, the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and a Class Rights Action.
In addition, the directors can determine that the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were amended with the intention matters not expressly listed in either category should be put to of extending these laws and regulations to the combined enterprise shareholders for their approval under either procedure.
and, in particular, to ensure that a person cannot exercise control over To facilitate the joint voting arrangements, each company has entered one company without having made offers to the public shareholders into shareholder voting agreements.
Each company has issued a Special of both companies.
Voting Share to a special purpose company held in trust for shareholders by a common Trustee.
It is consistent with the creation of the single economic enterprise, and the equal treatment of the two sets of shareholders, that these laws and Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share RTP Special Voting regulations should operate in this way.
The Articles of Association of Rio Share to RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has issued its Tinto plc and the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose restrictions on Special Voting Share RTL Special Voting Share to RTP Shareholder SVC.
any person who controls, directly or indirectly, 20 per cent or more of the The total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions by the shareholders votes on a Joint Decision.
If, however, such a person only has an interest in of one company are voted at the parallel meeting of the other either Rio Tinto Limited or Rio Tinto plc, the restrictions will only apply if company.
The role of these special purpose companies in achieving this they control, directly or indirectly, 30 per cent or more of the votes at that is described below.
In exceptional circumstances, certain shareholders of the companies can If one of the thresholds specified above is breached, subject to certain be excluded from voting at the respective companys general meetings limited exceptions and notification by the relevant company, such persons because they have acquired shares in one company in excess of a may not attend or vote at general meetings of the relevant company, may given threshold without making an offer for all the shares in the not receive dividends or other distributions from the relevant company other company.
If this should occur, the votes cast by these excluded and may be divested of their interest by the directors of the relevant shareholders will be disregarded.
These restrictions continue to apply until such persons have Following the companies general meetings, the overall results of the either made a public offer for all the publicly held shares of the other voting are announced to the stock exchanges, to the media and published company, or have reduced their controlling interest below the thresholds on the Rio Tinto website.
specified, or have acquired through a permitted means at least 50 per cent of the publicly held shares of each company.
At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision is considered, each Rio Tinto plc share carries one vote and the holder of its These provisions are designed to ensure that offers for the publicly held Special Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the public shares of both companies would be required to avoid the restrictions set shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited in their parallel meeting.
The holder out above, even if the interests which breach the thresholds are only held of the Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly, and only, in one of the companies.
The directors do not have the discretion to in accordance with the votes cast by public shareholders for and exempt a person from the operation of these rules.
against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto Limited Under the Sharing Agreement, the companies agree to co-operate to shareholders meeting.
enforce the above restrictions contained in their Articles of Association The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares do not actually hold any and Constitution.
voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto Limited Guarantees and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special In 1995, each company entered into a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of Voting Share.
creditors of the other company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll Guarantees, At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision is each company guaranteed the contractual obligations of the other considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share carries one vote and the holder company and the obligations of other persons which are guaranteed by of its Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote cast by the the other company, subject to certain limited exceptions.
public shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their parallel meeting.
The holder of Beneficiaries under the Deed Poll Guarantees may make demands upon the Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly, and only, the guarantor thereunder without first having recourse to the company or in accordance with the votes cast for and against the equivalent persons whose obligations are being guaranteed.
The obligations of the resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting.
guarantor under each Deed Poll Guarantee expire upon termination of the Sharing Agreement and under other limited circumstances, but only in The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not actually hold any voting shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto plc respect of obligations arising after such termination and, in the case of and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special other limited circumstances, the publication and expiry of due notice.
The shareholders of the companies cannot enforce the provisions of the Deed Poll Guarantees in relation to their interest in the shares of the Capital distribution arrangements other company.
If either of the companies goes into liquidation, the Sharing Agreement provides for a valuation to be made of the surplus assets of both companies.
If the surplus assets available for distribution by one company on each of the shares held by its shareholders exceed the surplus assets available for distribution by the other company on each of the shares held by its shareholders, then an equalising payment between the two companies shall be made, to the extent permitted by applicable law, such that the amount available for distribution on each share held by shareholders of each company conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
The objective is to ensure that the shareholders of both companies have 104 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 251 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information The ASX is the principal trading market for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Markets The ASX is a national stock exchange with an automated trading system.
Rio Tinto plc The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is the London Stock Share ownership Exchange with the shares trading through the Stock Exchange Electronic Substantial shareholders Trading Service SETS system.
Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Australian Rio Tinto plc American depositary receipts are listed on the New York Corporations Act, any shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting rights of Stock Exchange.
three per cent or more, or any person with voting power of five per cent or more in Rio Tinto Limited, is required to provide the relevant companies Further details relating to Rio Tinto plc American depositary receipts are with notice.
available in Rio Tintos Annual report on Form 20-F. Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange ASX.
The shareholders who have provided such, or an equivalent, notice as of 16 February 2018 are: Percentage of issued share Rio Tinto plc Date of notice Number of shares capital BlackRock, Inc. 4 Dec 2009 127,744,871 8.38 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 24 Feb 2015 56,647,518 4.01 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 17 Sep 2015 54,763,331 3.93 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 9 Oct 2015 55,867,795 4.02 Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd 26 Jan 2016 182,550,329 13.10 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 8 Jan 2018 67,470,318 5.03 Rio Tinto Limited BlackRock, Inc. 24 Mar 2015 22,161,984 5.13 BlackRock, Inc. 13 Apr 2015 See footnote a See footnote a BlackRock, Inc. 30 Oct 2015 See footnote b See footnote b BlackRock, Inc. 14 Apr 2016 21,479,771 5.06 BlackRock, Inc. 11 Oct 2016 26,656,003 6.28 Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd 09 Feb 2018 See footnote c See footnote c The Vanguard Group, Inc. 16 Feb 2018 See footnote d See footnote d a In its substantial holding notice filed on 13 April 2015, BlackRock, Inc. and its associates disclosed a holding of 120,174,604 shares in Rio Tinto plc and 22,330,443 shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Through the operation of the Australian Corporations Act as modified, these interests gave BlackRock, Inc. and its associates voting power of 7.7 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision matter, making them substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well as of Rio Tinto plc.
b By subsequent notice dated 30 October 2015, BlackRock, Inc. and its associates disclosed that they no longer held a relevant interest in five per cent or more of Rio Tinto Limiteds issued capital.
c In its notice of change of interests of substantial holder filed on 9 February 2018 Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd, a Singapore-based entity owned by Chinalco Aluminium Corporation of China, disclosed a holding of 182,550,329 Rio Tinto plc shares which, as at 28 November 2017, gave these entities and their associates voting power of 10.32 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision matter.
Accordingly, in addition to being substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto plc, through the operation of the Australian Corporations Act as modified and the DLC structure, these entities are substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited.
Ltds previous notification of an interest in Rio Tinto Limited was filed on 10 June 2009, in which it disclosed a holding in Rio Tinto plc that represented voting power of 9.32 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision matter.
The increase in voting power to 10.32 per cent as at 28 November 2017 is due to Rio Tintos 2015 and 2017 buy-back programmes and the consequential reduction of shares on issue in the combined voting share capitals of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, and is not due to any acquisition of shares by Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd, Chinalco or their associates.
d In its substantial holding notice filed on 16 February 2018, The Vanguard Group, Inc. and its associate Vanguard Investments Australia Ltd Vanguard disclosed that on 16 June 2017 it held 21,914,711 shares in Rio Tinto Limited, giving it voting power of 5.166 per cent.
By separate notice dated 16 February 2018, Vanguard disclosed that on 15 December 2017 it had ceased to be a substantial holder of shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
As far as is known, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are not directly or As of 16 February 2018, the total amount of the Groups voting securities indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any owned by the directors and executives in Rio Tinto plc was 190,508 government or natural person.
Rio Tinto is not aware of any arrangement ordinary shares of 10p each or ADRs and in Rio Tinto Limited was 98,353 which may result in a change in control of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
ordinary shares, in aggregate representing less than one per cent of the No shareholder possesses voting rights that differ from those attaching to Groups total number of ordinary shares in issue.
Rio Tinto plcs and Rio Tinto Limiteds securities.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Analysis of ordinary shareholders Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited No.
b This includes 118,080,965 shares held in the name of a nominee on the share register.
The shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
c The total issued share capital is made up of 1,346,930,822 publicly held shares: of which 9,465,599 shares are held in Treasury.
d Publicly held shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Twenty largest registered shareholders In accordance with the ASX Listing Rules, below are the names of the 20 largest registered holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the number of shares and the percentage of issued capital each holds as of 16 February 2018: Percentage of issued share Number of Rio Tinto Limited shares capital 29.05 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 119,800,845 J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 79,457,620 19.27 Citicorp Nominees Pty Ltd 5.38 22,205,679 National Nominees Limited 19,676,058 4.77 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Agency Lending DRP A C 12,368,565 3.00 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Colonial First State Inv A C 6,382,410 1.55 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd DRP 5,847,370 1.42 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A C 3,817,009 0.93 Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 3,456,865 0.84 Argo Investments Limited 2,370,739 0.57 Computershare Trustees Jey Ltd RE 3000086 A C 2,214,313 0.54 AMP Life Limited 1,704,988 0.41 National Nominees Limited 1,138,271 0.28 Custodial Services Limited Beneficiaries Holding A C 644,957 0.16 BNP Paribas Noms NZ Ltd DRP 621,541 0.15 The Senior Master of the Supreme Court Common Fund No.
3 A C 586,563 0.14 Milton Corporation Limited 583,618 0.14 Computershare Trustees Jey Ltd RE 3000091 A C 569,440 0.14 Navigator Australia Ltd MLC Investment Sett A C 562,607 0.14 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 0.13 550,952 106 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 253 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Material contracts Dividends Articles of Association and Constitution, and DLC Sharing Agreement Both companies have paid dividends on their ordinary shares every year As explained on pages 250 to 251 under the terms of the DLC structure since incorporation in 1962.
The process by which Rio Tinto shareholders the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered into receive dividends is explained under the description of the DLC structure certain contractual arrangements which are designed to place the on page 250. shareholders of both companies in substantially the same position as if they held shares in a single entity which owned all the assets of both Dividend policy companies.
Generally, and as far as is permitted by the UK Companies Act The dividend policy adopted by the board in February 2016 provides that, and the Australian Corporations Act and ASX Listing Rules, this principle at the end of each financial period, the board will determine an is reflected in the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and in the appropriate total level of ordinary dividend per share, taking into account Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
The summaries below include the results for the financial year, the outlook for our major commodities, descriptions of material rights of the shareholders of both Rio Tinto plc the boards view of the long-term growth prospects of the business and and Rio Tinto Limited.
the companys objective of maintaining a strong balance sheet.
The intention is that the balance between the interim and final dividend is Objects weighted to the final dividend.
At the 2009 annual general meetings, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited approved amendments to the constitutional documents The board expects total cash returns to shareholders over the longer whereby the object clauses were removed to allow the companies to have term to be in a range of 40 to 60 per cent of underlying earnings in the widest possible scope of activities.
Directors The board is committed to maintaining an appropriate balance between Under Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association, a director may not vote in cash returns to shareholders and investment in the business, with the respect of any proposal in which he or she, or any other person connected intention of maximising shareholder value.
with him or her, has any interest, other than by virtue of his or her Acknowledging the cyclical nature of the industry, in periods of strong interests in shares or debentures or other securities of, or otherwise in or through, the company, except in certain prescribed circumstances, earnings and cash generation, it is the boards intention to supplement including in respect of resolutions: the ordinary dividends with additional returns to shareholders.
indemnifying him or her or a third party in respect of obligations Dividend determination incurred by the director on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the company, The majority of our sales are transacted in US dollars, making this the or in respect of obligations of the company, for which the director has most appropriate measure for our global business performance.
It is our assumed responsibility under an indemnity, security or guarantee: main reporting currency and, consequently, the natural currency for relating to an offer of securities in which he or she may be interested dividend determination.
Dividends determined in US dollars are translated as a holder of securities or as an underwriter: at exchange rates prevailing two days prior to the declaration and payable concerning another body corporate in which the director is beneficially in sterling by Rio Tinto plc and in Australian dollars by Rio Tinto Limited.
interested in less than one per cent of the issued shares of any class of On request, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc can elect to receive dividends in shares of such a body corporate: Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders can elect to receive relating to an employee benefit in which the director will share equally dividends in pounds sterling.
If such an election is made, the dividend with other employees: amounts received will be calculated by converting the declared dividend relating to liability insurance that the company is empowered to using the exchange rates applicable to sterling and Australian dollars purchase for the benefit of directors of the company in respect of actions undertaken as directors or officers of the company: and five days prior to the dividend payment date.
concerning the giving of indemnities in favour of directors or the Shareholders who wish to receive their dividends in any other currencies funding of expenditure by directors to defend criminal, civil or should contact the companies share registrars, who offer payment regulatory proceedings or actions against a director.
services in other currencies, subject to a fee.
Under Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, except where a director is 2017 dividends constrained by Australian law, a director may be present at a meeting of The 2017 interim and final dividends were determined at 110.00 US cents the board while a matter in which the director has a material personal and at 180.00 US cents per share respectively and the applicable interest is being considered and may vote in respect of that matter.
conversion rates for the interim and final dividend were US$1.32315 and The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the companies US$1.39075 to the pound sterling and US$0.79875 and US$0.78765 to to borrow money, to charge any property or business of the companies or the Australian dollar respectively.
For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders all, or any, of their uncalled capital and to issue debentures or give any who elected to receive their interim dividend in Australian dollars the other security for a debt, liability or obligation of the companies or of any applicable conversion rate was A$1.67325 to the pound sterling and other person.
The directors shall restrict the borrowings of Rio Tinto plc to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all moneys borrowed by the for Rio Tinto Limited shareholders who elected to receive their company and its subsidiaries shall not exceed an amount equal to one dividend in sterling the applicable conversion rate was and one-half times the companies share capital plus aggregate reserves 0.59764 to the Australian dollar.
unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the company.
Final dividends of 129.43 pence or 228.53 Australian cents per share will Directors are not required to hold any shares of either company by way of be paid on 12 April 2018.
For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders requesting qualification.
The Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 105 provides the 2017 final dividend be paid in Australian dollars, those holders of information on shareholding policies relating to executive and Rio Tinto plc ADRs each representing one share and those non-executive directors.
Please refer to theGovernance report for Rio Tinto Limited shareholders requesting the 2017 final dividend be paid information on the appointment of directors.
in pounds sterling, the applicable conversion rates will be determined on Rights attaching to shares 5 April 2018.
Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits available for distribution, as determined in accordance with generally Dividend reinvestment plan DRP accepted accounting principles and by the relevant law.
Shareholders are Rio Tinto offers a DRP to registered shareholders, which provides entitled to receive such dividends as may be declared by the directors.
the opportunity to use cash dividends to purchase Rio Tinto The directors may also pay shareholders such interim dividends as appear shares in the market.
to them to be justified by the financial position of the Group.
Under the Australian Corporations Act, dividends on shares may only be paid if the companys assets exceed its liabilities immediately before the dividend is declared and the excess is sufficient for the payment of the dividend, the payment of the dividend is fair and reasonable to the companys shareholders as a whole, and the payment of the dividend does not materially prejudice the companys ability to pay its creditors.
Any Rio Tinto plc dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the 107 254 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information dividend was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and Variation of rights returned to the company.
Any Rio Tinto Limited dividend unclaimed may If, at any time, the share capital is divided into different classes of shares, be invested or otherwise used by the board for the benefit of the the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of company until claimed or otherwise disposed of according to Australian the relevant legislation, with the consent in writing of holders of law.
Rio Tinto Limited is governed by Victorian unclaimed monies three-fourths in value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of legislation, which requires the company to pay to the State Revenue an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of Office any unclaimed dividend payments of A$20 or more that at 1 March each year have remained unclaimed for over 12 months.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association and Constitution relating to Voting proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum for Voting at any general meeting of shareholders on a resolution on which Rio Tinto plc should be two or more persons who hold or represent the holder of the Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be decided by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued by a poll, and any other resolution shall be decided by a show of hands shares of the class.
unless a poll has been duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised Rights upon a winding-up representative and is entitled to vote has one vote regardless of the Except as the shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, upon a number of shares held.
The holder of the Special Voting Share is not winding-up, the balance of assets available for distribution: entitled to vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, every shareholder who is after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and creditors, whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal creditors: is entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share for which he or and she is the holder and, in the case of Joint Decisions, the holder of the Special Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast in respect of the subject to any special rights attaching to any class of shares, publicly held shares of the other company.
is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the A poll may be demanded by any of the following: amounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
This distribution is generally to be made in cash.
A liquidator may, however, upon the the chairman of the meeting: adoption of a special resolution of the shareholders, divide among the at least five shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: shareholders the whole or any part of the assets in specie or kind.
any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not The Sharing Agreement further sets out further arrangements relating to less than one tenth Rio Tinto plc or one 20th Rio Tinto Limited of the distribution of assets of each of the companies in the event of a the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the liquidation as explained on pages 250 and 251. resolution: Facility agreement any shareholder or shareholders holding Rio Tinto plc shares Details of the Groups US$7.5 billion multi-currency committed revolving conferring a right to vote at the meeting on which there have been credit facilities are set out in note 30 to the 2017 financial statements.
paid-up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one tenth of the Exchange controls and foreign investment total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right: or Rio Tinto plc the holder of the Special Voting Share of either company.
There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other UK restrictions on the A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to demand a import or export of capital or on the payment of dividends to non-resident poll, or to join others in demanding one.
holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that materially affect the conduct of Rio Tinto plcs operations.
It should be noted, however, that various The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc general meeting is three sanctions, laws, regulations or conventions may restrict the import or members present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised export of capital by, or the payment of dividends to, non-resident holders representative and entitled to vote, and for a Rio Tinto Limited general of Rio Tinto plc shares.
There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plcs meeting is two members present in person or by proxy or other duly Articles of Association or under UK law that limit the right of non-resident authorised representative.
owners to hold or vote Rio Tinto plc shares.
However, certain of the provisions of the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 Matters are transacted at general meetings by the proposing and passing described below also apply to the acquisition by non-Australian persons of resolutions as: of interests in securities of Rio Tinto plc.
ordinary resolutions, which require the affirmative vote of a majority of Rio Tinto Limited the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a Under current Australian legislation, Australia does not impose general quorum, for example the election of directors: and exchange or foreign currency controls.
Subject to some specific requirements and restrictions, Australian and foreign currency may be special resolutions, which require the affirmative vote of not less than freely brought into and sent out of Australia.
There are requirements to three-fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is a report cash transfers in or out of Australia of A$10,000 or more.
There is a quorum, for example amending the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto prohibition on, or in some cases the specific prior approval of the plc or the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade or Minister for Foreign Affairs The Sharing Agreement further classifies resolutions as Joint Decisions must be obtained for, certain payments or other dealings connected with and Class Rights Actions as explained under Voting arrangements on countries or parties identified with terrorism, or to whom United Nations or autonomous Australian sanctions apply.
Sanction, anti-money pages 250 and 251. laundering and counterterrorism laws may restrict or prohibit payments, Annual general meetings must be convened with 21 days written notice transactions and dealings or require reporting of certain transactions.
for Rio Tinto plc and with 28 days notice for Rio Tinto Limited.
In accordance with the authority granted by shareholders at the Rio Tinto plc annual general meeting in 2017, other meetings of Rio Tinto plc may be convened with 14 days written notice for the passing of a special resolution and with 14 days notice for any other resolution, depending on the nature of the business to be transacted.
All meetings of Rio Tinto Limited require 28 days notice.
In calculating the period of notice the days of delivery or receipt of the notice and the date of the meeting are not included.
Among other things, the notice must specify the nature of the business to be transacted.
com 255 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct withholding tax from foreign direct investments by foreign government investors, in certain remittances of dividends, to the extent that they are unfranked, and from circumstances regardless of the size of the investment.
Persons who are payments of interest.
proposing relevant acquisitions or transactions may be required to provide notice to the Treasurer before proceeding with the acquisition or Acquisitions of interests in shares, and certain other equity instruments in transaction.
The Treasurer has the power to order divestment in cases Australian companies by non-Australian foreign persons are subject where relevant acquisitions or transactions have already occurred, to review and approval by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of including where prior notice to the Treasurer was not required.
Australia under the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 The Takeovers Act does not affect the rights of owners whose interests the Takeovers Act.
In broad terms, the Takeovers Act applies to are held in compliance with the legislation.
acquisitions of interests in securities in an Australian entity by a foreign person where, as a result, a single foreign person and any associate Limitations on voting and shareholding would control 20 per cent or more of the voting power or potential voting Except for the provisions of the Takeovers Act, there are no limitations power in the entity, or several foreign persons and any associates would imposed by law, Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association or Rio Tinto control 40 per cent or more of the voting power or the potential voting Limiteds Constitution, on the rights of non-residents or foreigners to hold power in the entity.
The potential voting power in an entity is determined the Groups ordinary shares or ADRs or vote that would not apply having regard to the voting shares in the entity that would be on issue if generally to all shareholders.
all rights whether or not presently exercisable to be issued voting shares in the entity were exercised.
The Takeovers Act also applies to UK Listing Rules cross reference table The following table contains cross references identifying the location of information required to be disclosed in the Annual report by the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R. Listing Rule Description of Listing Rule Reference in report 9.8.
4 1 A statement of any interest capitalised by the Group during the year Note 8 Finance income and finance costs and note 17 Deferred taxation 9.8.
4 2 Any information required by Listing Rule 9.2.
4 4 Details of any long-term incentive scheme as required by LR 9.4.
4 5 Details of any arrangement under which a director has waived any emoluments N A 9.8.
4 6 Details of any arrangement under which a director has agreed to waive future emoluments N A 9.8.
4 7 Details of any allotments of shares by the company for cash not previously authorised by shareholders N A 9.8.
4 8 Details of any allotments of shares for cash by a major subsidiary of the company N A 9.8.
4 9 Details of the participation by the company in any placing made by its parent company N A 9.8.
4 10 Details of any contract of significance with the company in which a director has a material interest: N A or a contract between the company and a controlling shareholder 9.8.
4 11 Details of any contract for the provision of services to the company by a controlling shareholder N A 9.8.
4 12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends Note 11 Dividends 9.8.
4 13 Details of where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends N A 9.8.
2AR 2 a N A Boiler room scams Shareholders tell us that they sometimes receive unsolicited approaches, usually by telephone, inviting them to undertake a transaction in shares they own.
If you do not know the source of the call, check the details against the FCA website below and, if you have specific information, report it to the FCA under the Consumer helpline or the online reporting form.
If you have any concerns whatsoever, do not take any action and do not part with any money without being certain that: you fully understand the transaction: you know who you are dealing with and they are registered with and authorised by the FCA: and you have consulted a financial adviser if you have any doubts.
Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it almost certainly is.
You run the risk of losing any money you part with.
If you are worried that you may already have been a victim of fraud, report the facts immediately using the Action Fraud helpline.
Should you require any more information about boiler roomscams and other investment-based fraud, this can be found on two websites: Action Fraud helpline 0300 123 2040 Action Fraud website actionfraud.
uk FCA Consumer helpline 0800 111 6768 FCA scams website fca.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Financial calendar 2018 15 January Fourth quarter 2017 operations review Sydney 16 January 7 February Announcement of results for 2017 1 March Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend for the 2017 final dividend 1 March Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for the 2017 final dividend 1 March Publication of 2017 Annual report, 20-F and Notices of annual general meetings 2 March Record date for the 2017 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs 20 March Final date for elections under the Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited dividend reinvestment plans and under facilities for dividends to be paid in alternative currency for the 2017 final dividend 5 April Dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing to receive pounds sterling 11 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc, London 12 April Payment date for the 2017 final dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs 17 April First quarter 2018 operations review Sydney 18 April 2 May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited, Melbourne 16 July Second quarter 2018 operations review Sydney 17 July 1 August Announcement of half year results for 2018 9 August Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend for the 2018 interim dividend 9 August Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for the 2018 interim dividend 10 August Record date for the 2018 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs 30 August Final date for elections under the Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited dividend reinvestment plans and under facilities for dividends to be paid in alternative currency for the 2018 interim dividend 13 September Dividend currency conversion date Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing to receive pounds sterling 20 September Payment date for the 2018 interim dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs 15 October Third quarter 2018 operations review Sydney 16 October 2019 January Fourth quarter 2018 operations review February Announcement of results for 2018 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc, London April First quarter 2019 operations review May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited, Perth July Second quarter 2019 operations review August Announcement of half year results for 2019 October Third quarter 2019 operations review 110 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 257 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Contact details Rio Tinto Limited Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited GPO Box 2975 Registered offices Melbourne Victoria 3001 Rio Tinto plc 6 St Jamess Square Telephone: 61 0 3 9415 4030 London Fax: 61 0 3 9473 2500 SW1Y 4AD Australian residents only, toll free: Registered in England No.
com Rio Tinto Limited Former Alcan Inc. shareholders Level 7 Computershare Investor Services Inc. 360 Collins Street 8th Floor Melbourne 100 University Avenue Victoria 3000 Toronto, ON ABN 96 004 458 404 M5J 2Y1 Telephone: 61 0 3 9283 3333 Telephone: 1 514-982-7555 Fax: 61 0 3 9283 3707 North American residents only, Website: riotinto.
com toll free: 1 800 564-6253 Website: computershare.
com Rio Tintos agent in the US is Cheree Finan, who may be contacted at Rio Tinto Services Inc. 80 State Street Investor Centre Albany, NY 12207-2543 Investor Centre is Computershares free, secure, self-service website, where shareholders can manage their holdings online.
The website Shareholders enables shareholders to: Please refer to the Investor Centre of the respective registrar if you have View share balances any queries about your shareholding.
Change address details Rio Tinto plc View payment and tax information Computershare Investor Services PLC Update payment instructions The Pavilions In addition, shareholders who register their email address on Bridgwater Road Bristol Investor Centre can be notified electronically of events such as BS99 6ZZ annual general meetings, and can receive shareholder communications Telephone: 44 0 370 703 6364 such as the Annual report or Notice of meeting electronically online.
Fax: 44 0 370 703 6119 Rio Tinto plc shareholders UK residents only, Website: investorcentre.
co. uk riotinto Freephone: 0800 435021 Website: computershare.
com Rio Tinto Limited shareholders Website: investorcentre.
com rio Holders of Rio Tinto American Depositary Receipts ADRs Please contact the ADR administrator if you have any queries about your ADRs.
ADR administrator JPMorgan Chase & Co PO Box 64504 St. Paul, MN 55164-0854 Telephone: 1 651 453 2128 US residents only, toll free general: 800 990 1135 US residents only, toll free Global invest direct: 800 428 4267 Website: adr.
com Annual report 2017 MIX Paper from IJ responsible sources FSC www.
"org FSC"" C001785 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper."
Park is an EMAS-certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Edixion Offset, a paper containing 100% Environmental Chlorine Free ECF virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
com Typesetting and formatting by Donnelley Financial Solutions dfsco.
com RioTinto Get more information online Find out more about our business and performance: riotinto.
com View our 2017 Annual report: riotinto.
com ar2017 View our 2017 Sustainable development online report: riotinto.
