114 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The Group prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by the EU, theapplication of which often requires judgements and estimates to be made by management when formulating the Groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the Directors are required to adopt those accounting policies most appropriate to the Groups circumstances for the purpose of presenting fairly the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
The Groups accounting policies do not include any critical judgements.
The Groups accounting policies are set out in Notes 123 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
Of those, the policies which require the most use of managements estimation are as follows: VALUATION OF INVENTORIES A feature of the Orthopaedic Reconstruction and Trauma & Extremities franchises whose finished goods inventory make up approximately 79% of the Groups total finished goods inventory is the high level of product inventory required, some of which is located at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use.
Complete sets of products, including large and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared with historical usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered appropriate based on experience, but it does require management estimate in respect of customer demand, effectiveness of inventory deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old products and efficiency of manufacturing planning systems.
IMPAIRMENT In carrying out impairment reviews of intangible assets, a number of significant assumptions have to be made when preparing cash flow projections.
These include the future rate of market growth, discount rates, the market demand for the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired businesses or products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory approvals.
If actual results should differ or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely impact operating results.
LIABILITY PROVISIONING The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant degree of estimation.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is considered probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
In making its estimates, management takes into account the advice of internal and external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts updated where necessary to reflect developments in the disputes.
The ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the outcome of court proceedings and settlement negotiations or if investigations bring to light new facts.
TAXATION The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world and it is Group policy to submit its tax returns to the relevant tax authorities as promptly as possible.
At any given time, the Group is involved in disputes and tax audits and will have a number of tax returns potentially subject to audit.
Significant issues may take several years to resolve.
In estimating the probability and amount of any tax charge, management takes into account the views of internal and external advisers and updates the amount of tax provision whenever necessary.
The ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided depending on interpretations of tax law, settlement negotiations or changes in legislation.
