NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Principal accounting policies The following are the principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial statements.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in this note to the consolidated financial statements.
Certain of the Groups accounting policies inherently rely on subjective assumptions and judgements, such that it is possible over time the actual results could differ from the estimates based on the assumptions and judgements used by the Group.
Due to the size of the amounts involved, changes in the assumptions relating to the following policies could potentially have a significant impact on the result for the year and or the carrying values of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements: Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the course of preparing the financial statements, no judgements have been made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, other than those involving estimations which are dealt with separately below that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that may have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
UK retirement benefit obligations The UK retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are the present values of the defined benefit obligations at the year end less the fair value of any associated assets.
Key assumptions involved in the determination of the present values of the defined benefit obligations include discount rates, beneficiary mortality and inflation rates.
Changes in any or all of these assumptions could materially change the employee benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The carrying values of the Groups pension obligations as well as a sensitivity analysis relating to changes in discount rates, beneficiary mortality and inflation rates are included in note 10.
Provisioning for Lower Passaic River environmental matters In determining the level of provision held at year end in respect of the Lower Passaic River environmental matter the Board takes advice from external experts as appropriate.
The nature of the estimates adopted is such that the final liability that crystallises may differ from these estimates.
In particular there is estimation uncertainty as to what, if any, the Groups share of total remediation and legal costs is likely to be, for which a provision of $11.3 million, net of insurance reimbursements, has been recorded as set out in notes 24 and 28.
As set out in note 28 the final remediation cost could differ materially from the provision recorded.
However, at this stage it is not possible to reliably estimate the range of possible outcomes.
a Accounting convention and format The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore Groups financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The same accounting policies, presentation and methods of computation have been followed in these consolidated financial statements as applied in the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. b Basis of preparation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, or the subsidiary meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
The effective date is when control passes to or from the Group.
Control is achieved when the Group has the power over the investee and is exposed, or has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered in determining the existence or otherwise of control.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to align their accounting policies with those used by the Group.
Where subsidiaries are not 100% owned by the Group, the share attributable to outside shareholders is reflected in non-controlling interests.
Non-controlling interests are identified separately from the Groups equity, and may initially be measured at either fair value or at the non-controlling interests share of the fair value of the subsidiarys identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement is made on an  basis.
Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries, that do not result in a loss of control, are accounted for as equity transactions.
Where control is lost, a gain or loss on disposal is recognised through the consolidated income statement, calculated as the difference between the fair value of consideration received plus the fair value of any retained interest and the Groups previous share of the former subsidiarys net assets.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are reclassified and recognised through the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
90 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Joint ventures Joint ventures are entities in which the Group has joint control, shared with a party outside the Group.
The Group reports its interests in joint ventures using the equity method.
Going concern Giving due consideration to the nature of the Groups business and taking account of the following matters: the financing facilities available to the Group: the Groups foreign currency exposures: and also taking into consideration the cash flow forecasts prepared by the Group and the sensitivity analysis associated therewith, the directors consider that the Company and the Group are going concerns and these financial statements are prepared on that basis.
Further detail is contained in the corporate governance section on page [xx].
c Change in functional currency In February 2017 the Company signed binding settlement agreements with the Trustees of the Coats UK Pension Plan and Brunel Holdings Pension Scheme.
On 28 February 2017 agreed cash payments of 200.0 million and 34.5 million were made into the Coats UK Pension Plan and Brunel Holdings Pension Scheme respectively.
The Company has received written assurances from the UK Pensions Regulator that its regulatory action has ceased in relation to these two schemes under the Warning Notices that it issued to the Company in 2013 and 2014.
Following the events noted above, it was determined that the functional currency of Coats Group plc had changed from Great Britain pounds sterling Sterling to United States dollars USD, effective 1 March 2017.
In accordance with IAS 21 this change has been accounted for prospectively from this date.
To give effect to the change in functional currency, the assets, liabilities and equity of Coats Group plc in Sterling at 1 March 2017 were converted into USD at an exchange rate of US$1:0.8078.
Share capital and other equity amounts of Coats Group plc reported in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position were previously presented in USD converted from Sterling using historical rates of exchange.
Exchange differences have therefore arisen between the historical USD Sterling exchange rates and the exchange rate used for conversion from Sterling to USD at 1 March 2017.
These exchange differences are reported in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The presentation currency of the Group is USD and remains unchanged.
d Foreign currencies Foreign currency translation The Groups presentation currency is US Dollars.
Transactions of companies within the Group are recorded in the functional currency of that company.
Currencies other than the functional currency are foreign currencies.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the period end.
All currency differences on monetary items are taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of currency differences that represent a net investment in a foreign operation, which are taken directly to equity until disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recycled through the consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
91 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Group companies Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries whose presentation currency is not US Dollars are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the period end and their income statements are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation since 1 January 2004 are taken to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of such an entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity since 1 January 2004 relating to that particular operation is recycled through the consolidated income statement.
Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to IFRS in respect of all such entities are not presented as a separate component of equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition of such operations are regarded as assets and liabilities of the particular operation, expressed in the currency of the operation and recorded at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction and subsequently retranslated at the applicable closing rates.
The principal exchange rates to the US dollar used in preparing these financial statements are as follows: 2017 2016 Average Sterling 0.78 0.74 Euro 0.89 0.90 Brazilian Real 3.19 3.48 Indian Rupee 65.09 67.16 Period end Sterling 0.74 0.81 Euro 0.83 0.95 Brazilian Real 3.31 3.25 Indian Rupee 63.87 67.92 e Operating segments Operating segments are components of the Group about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated by the Coats Group plc Board in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
f Operating profit Operating profit is stated before the share of results of joint ventures, investment and interest income, finance costs and foreign exchange gains and losses from cash and cash equivalents used in investing activities.
g Exceptional and acquisition related items The Group has adopted an income statement format which seeks to highlight significant items within the Group results for the year.
Exceptional items may include significant restructuring associated with a business or property disposal, litigation costs and settlements, profit or loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, gains or losses arising from fide-risking of defined benefit pension obligations, regulatory investigation costs and impairment of assets.
Acquisition related items include amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition transaction costs, contingent consideration linked to employment and adjustments to contingent consideration.
Judgement is used by the Group in assessing the particular items, which by virtue of their scale and nature, should be presented in the income statement and disclosed in the related notes as exceptional items.
In determining whether an event or transaction is exceptional, quantitative as well as qualitative factors such as frequency or predictability of occurrence are considered.
This is consistent with the way financial performance is measured by management and reported to the Board.
h Property, plant and equipment Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairments.
Leased assets Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Subsequent expenditure Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately, including major inspection and overhaul expenditure, is capitalised.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the item of property, plant and equipment.
All other expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
92 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment, and major components that are accounted for separately.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years to 100 years Leasehold buildings 10 years to 50 years or over the term of the lease if shorter Plant and equipment 3 years to 20 years Vehicles and office equipment 2 years to 10 years Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each period end.
i Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
CGUs represent the Groups investment in each of its business segments.
Negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date which is regarded as their cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately.
The estimated useful lives other than the Coats Brand are as follows: Brands and trade names 10 years to 20 years Technology 5 years to 10 years Customer relationships 9 years to 14 years The useful life of the Coats Brand is considered to be indefinite.
Other intangibles Acquired computer software licences and computer software development costs are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software and are amortised over their estimated useful lives of up to 5 years.
Intellectual property, comprising trademarks, designs, patents and product development which have a finite useful life, are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost over the assets useful lives, which vary from 5 to 10 years.
Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are measured at the CGU level.
Research and development All research costs are expensed as incurred.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be separately identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and 93 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED the development costs can be measured reliably.
Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
j Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant financial instrument.
Financial assets i Available for sale investments Available for sale investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis and are initially measured at fair value, plus directly attributable transaction costs and are remeasured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Listed investments are stated at market value.
Unlisted investments are stated at fair value based on directors valuation, which is supported by external experts advice or other external evidence.
ii Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits.
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
iii Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Financial liabilities i Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at nominal value.
ii Borrowings Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value, net of direct issue costs.
These financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised over the period of the relevant liabilities.
iii Compound instruments The component parts of compound instruments are classified separately as financial liabilities and equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non-convertible instrument, and this amount is recorded as a liability at amortised cost.
The equity component is the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole less the amount of the liability component, and is recognised in equity, net of income tax effect, without subsequent remeasurement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts, and the host contracts are not measured at fair value with changes in fair value being recognised in the income statement.
iv Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The use of financial derivatives is regulated by the Board or that of the relevant operating subsidiary in accordance with their respective risk management strategies.
Changes in values of all derivatives of a financing nature are included within investment income and finance costs in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at contract date and are remeasured at each reporting date.
The Group designates hedging instruments as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedges of interest rate risk are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of each hedge transaction the issuing entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item and the anticipated effectiveness of the hedge transaction, and monitors the ongoing effectiveness over the period of the hedge.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the issuing entity revokes the hedging relationship, the hedge instrument expires, is sold, exercised or otherwise terminated, and the adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised through the income statement from that date.
94 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED v Fair value hedges Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised immediately through the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the related hedged items due to changes in the hedged risks.
On discontinuation of the hedge the adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised through the consolidated income statement from that date.
vi Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is deferred in equity.
Once the related hedged item is recognised in the income statement, the amounts deferred in equity are recycled through the consolidated income statement.
The gain or loss arising from any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately through the consolidated income statement.
vii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Gains and losses on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion of such hedges are recognised through the translation reserve, and recycled through the consolidated income statement on disposal of the respective foreign operations.
The gain or loss arising from any ineffective portion of such hedges is recognised immediately through the consolidated income statement.
k Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services, net of sales tax and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: i Sales of goods Sales of goods are recognised in revenue when the associated risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer.
ii Sales of services Sales of services are recognised in the period in which the services are rendered, by reference to the stage of completion of those services at the period end.
iii Income from sales of property Income from sales of property is recognised on completion when legal title of the property passes to the buyer.
l Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition are accounted for as follows: Raw materials are valued at cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
The costs of finished goods and work in progress include direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective inventories.
m Employee benefits i Retirement and other post-employment obligations For retirement and other post-employment benefit obligations, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period by independent actuaries.
Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on scheme assets excluding interest are recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of financial position with a charge or credit to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Remeasurement recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is not recycled.
Current and past service costs, along with the impact of any settlements or curtailments, are charged to the consolidated income statement.
The net interest expense on pension plans liabilities and the expected return on the plans assets is recognised within finance expense in the consolidated income statement.
In addition, pension scheme administrative expenses including the PPF Pension Protection Fund levy and actuary, audit, legal and trustee charges are recognised as administrative expenses.
The retirement benefit and other post employment benefit obligation recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the deficit or surplus in the Groups defined benefit schemes.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the schemes or reductions in future contributions to the schemes and refunds expected from the schemes to fund other Group defined benefit schemes, in accordance with relevant legislation.
95 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
ii Share-based compensation Cash-settled Cash-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market based vesting conditions at each reporting date.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in liabilities.
Equity-settled The Group operates an equity-settled Long Term Incentive Plan for executives and senior management.
Awards under this plan are subject to both market-based and non-market-based vesting criteria.
The fair value at the date of grant is established by using an appropriate simulation method to reflect the likelihood of market-based performance conditions being met.
The fair value is charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with appropriate adjustments being made during this period to reflect expected vesting for non market-based performance conditions and forfeitures.
The corresponding credit is to equity shareholders funds.
To satisfy awards under this Plan, shares may be purchased in the market by an Employee Benefit Trust over the vesting period.
iii Non-share-based long term incentive schemes The anticipated present value cost of non-share-based incentive schemes is charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the period the benefit is earned, based on remuneration rates that are expected to be payable.
iv Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the period end are discounted to present value.
n Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted by the period end.
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred taxation is measured on a nondiscounted basis.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deducted for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting, nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the period end.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying values of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each period end.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
o Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
96 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED All other borrowing costs, except where otherwise stated, are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
p Provisions A provision is recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, a provision is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
q Onerous contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
r Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
s Assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and businesses which are to be sold disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is expected to be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when such a sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale from the date these conditions are met, and such assets are no longer depreciated.
Discontinued operations are classified as held for sale and are either a separate business segment or a geographical area of operations that is part of a single coordinated plan to sell.
Once an operation has been identified as discontinued, or is reclassified as discontinued, the comparative information in the Income Statement is restated.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in the year During the year, the Group has adopted the following standards and interpretations: Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses : Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative : and Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle.
The adoption of these standards and interpretations has had no significant impact on these consolidated financial statements.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted The following published standards and amendments to existing standards, which have not yet all been endorsed by the EU, are expected to be effective as follows: From the year beginning 1 January 2018: IFRS 9 Financial instruments : IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers : Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and measurement of share based payment transactions : Amendments to IFRS 4 Interaction of IFRS 4 and IFRS 9 : Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of property to, or from, investment property : and Annual improvements to IFRSs 2014 2016 cycle.
From the year beginning 1 January 2019: IFRS 16 Leases : Amendments to IFRS 9 Prepayment features with negative compensation and modifications of financial liabilities : Amendments to IAS 19 Plan amendments, curtailments or settlements : Amendments to IAS 28 Long-term interests in Associates and Joint Ventures : and 97 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015 2017 cycle.
From the year beginning 1 January 2021: Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015 2017 cycle.
Other than IFRS 16 the directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, although the full assessment is not complete.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 provides a new expected losses impairment model and includes amendments to classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The Group does not expect that the adoption of IFRS 9 will have a material impact on the financial statements but it will impact both the measurement and disclosure of financial instruments.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 sets out the requirements for recognising revenue from contracts with customers.
The standard requires entities to apportion revenue earned from contracts to individual promises, or performance obligations, on a stand-alone selling price basis, based on a five-step model.
The Group does not expect that the adoption of IFRS 15 will have a material impact on the revenue recorded in the income statement but it will introduce new disclosures requirements.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 subject to endorsement by the EU.
This standard provides a single model for lessees which recognises a right of use asset and lease liability for all leases which are longer than one year or which are not classified as low value.
The distinction between finance and operating leases for lessees is removed.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group holds a significant number of operating leases which currently, under IAS 17, are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Retrospective application in the comparative year ending 31 December 2018 is optional.
The Group expects that it will not take this optional application and will apply the standard from the transitional date using the modified retrospective approach, adjusting opening retained earnings and not re-stating comparatives.
This involves calculating the right-of-use asset and lease liability based on the present value of remaining lease payments on all applicable lease contracts as at the transition date.
The Group has initiated a process to collect operating lease information across the business in order to assess the cumulative adjustment on transition.
As at 31 December 2017 data for the Groups most significant markets has been collected and assessed.
Based on an initial analysis for the Groups most significant markets, were the new requirements adopted in 2017, operating profit would increase by an immaterial amount and profit before tax would decrease by an immaterial amount.
The discount rate, the lease term including consideration of options to extend, changes to the lease portfolio and exchange rates on translation of financial statements of non-US Dollar operations are all subject to change in future years, which will impact the actual transitional adjustment as at the expected transition date.
The Group will continue to assess the impact of IFRS 16, including the impact on tax, until the transition date, providing further quantitative and qualitative measures as progress is made on implementation planning.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 16 until the detailed lease-by-lease review has been completed for all markets and the conclusion on other non-operating lease contractual arrangements has been reached.
The undiscounted amount of the Groups operating lease commitments at 31 December 2017 disclosed under IAS 17, the current leasing standard was $62.4 million see note 25.
98 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Segmental analysis The Group has two reportable segments: Industrial and Crafts.
Both segments include businesses with similar operating and market characteristics.
These segments are consistent with the internal reporting as reviewed by the Coats Group plc Board the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
a Segment revenue and results Industrial Crafts Total Year ended 31 December 2017 US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1,296.9 213.4 1,510.3 Segment profit 172.9 7.1 180.0 UK pension scheme administrative expenses 6.3 Operating profit before exceptional and acquisition related items 173.7 Exceptional and acquisition related items note 4 6.5 Operating profit 167.2 Share of losses of joint ventures 1.3 Investment income 2.1 Finance costs 25.1 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 142.9 Industrial Crafts Total Year ended 31 December 2016 US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1,221.2 236.1 1,457.3 Segment profit 154.7 10.8 165.5 UK pension scheme administrative expenses 7.6 Operating profit before exceptional and acquisition related items 157.9 Exceptional and acquisition related items note 4 4.6 Operating profit 153.3 Share of profits of joint ventures 0.8 Investment income 4.3 Finance costs 35.9 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 122.5 The accounting policies of the reportable operating segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 1.
Operating profit is the measure reported to the Companys directors for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance for continuing operations.
b Assets and liabilities Adjustments, eliminations and unallocated assets and Industrial Crafts liabilities Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets 31 December 2017 421.0 85.9 5.3 512.2 31 December 2016 370.6 88.3 5.3 464.2 Liabilities 31 December 2017 278.3 29.5 22.5 330.3 31 December 2016 242.4 32.5 29.0 303.9 99 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Segmental assets includes trade and other receivables excluding derivative financial instruments and current income tax assets and inventories.
Segmental liabilities includes trade and other payables excluding derivative financial instruments and current income tax payables of $24.2 million 2016: $14.0 million included in other payables due after one year.
Adjustments, eliminations and unallocated assets and liabilities consist of elimination of intra group balances as well as assets and liabilities which have not been allocated to reportable segments.
c Other segment information Additions to Depreciation and non-current assets amortisation 2017 2016 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m US$m US$m Industrial 45.6 34.2 30.6 32.0 Crafts 2.6 2.2 5.1 3.0 Unallocated 2.4 5.1 6.3 5.7 50.6 41.5 42.0 40.7 Depreciation and amortisation excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets set out in note 4 of $2.1 million 2016: $1.3 million.
e Information about products and customers The Groups revenue by product type are as follows: 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Industrial Apparel and Footwear 1,020.8 974.8 Industrial Performance Materials 276.1 246.4 Crafts Handknittings 108.3 121.2 Crafts Needlecrafts 105.1 114.9 1,510.3 1,457.3 The Group had no revenue from a single customer, which accounts for more than 10% of the Groups revenue.
100 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Continuing operations: Sales of goods 1,510.3 1,457.3 Other operating income 0.1 0.2 Investment income 2.1 4.3 1,512.5 1,461.8 Discontinued operations: Sales of goods 8.8 8.8 1,512.5 1,470.6 4 Profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : Exceptional and acquisition related items: The Groups consolidated income statement format includes results before and after exceptional and acquisition related items.
Adjusted results exclude exceptional and acquisition related items to reflect the underlying performance of the business and provides a more meaningful comparison of how the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis.
Further details on alternative performance measures are set out in note 37.
Exceptional items There were no exceptional items charged credited to operating profit during the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: $Nil.
Shares of losses of joint ventures for the year ended 31 December 2017 is after exceptional costs of $2.6 million 2016: $Nil relating to the sale and closure of the business of a joint venture in Australia, Australia Country Spinners.
Acquisition related items Acquisition related items are set out below: 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Acquisition related items: Administrative expenses: Contingent consideration 4.0 2.4 Acquisition transaction costs 0.4 0.9 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 2.1 1.3 Total acquisition related items before taxation 6.5 4.6 The Group completed the acquisition of Patrick Yarn Mill during the year ended 31 December 2017 see note 31 for further details and completed the acquisitions of Gotex S. A. and Fast React Systems Limited during the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Group has made acquisitions with earn outs to allow part of the consideration to be based on the future performance of the businesses acquired and to lock in key management.
Where consideration paid or contingent consideration payable in the future is employment linked, it is treated as an expense and part of statutory results.
However, all consideration of this type is excluded from adjusted operating profit and adjusted earnings per share as in managements view, these items are part of the capital transaction.
Acquisition transaction costs and amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business combinations are not included within adjusted earnings.
These costs are acquisition related and management consider them to be capital in nature and they do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group.
101 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Excluding amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business combinations and recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations from adjusted results also ensures that the performance of the Groups acquired businesses is presented consistently with its organically grown businesses.
It should be noted that the use of acquired intangible assets contributed to the Groups results for the years presented and will contribute to the Groups results in future periods as well.
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets will recur in future periods.
Amortisation of software is included within adjusted results as management consider these cost to be part of the underlying trading performance of the business.
5 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : Amortisation of intangible assets 13.2 10.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 30.9 31.9 Fees charged by Deloitte LLP Group audit fees: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.5 0.4 Fees payable for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.6 1.8 Other Deloitte services: Taxation services 0.3 0.4 Other services 0.1 0.2 Total fees charged by Deloitte LLP 2.5 2.8 Operating lease rentals: Plant and equipment 6.4 4.9 Other 12.7 11.3 Research and development expenditure 2.1 1.6 Bad and doubtful debts 0.4 2.3 Net foreign exchange gains losses 2.2 4.1 Rental income from land and buildings 0.4 0.5 Inventory as a material component of cost of sales 534.6 514.8 Inventory write-downs to net realisable value 0.6 1.5 6 Investment income 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m 1 Interest receivable on Parent Group cash 0.1 2.2 Other interest receivable and similar income 1.7 1.6 Income from other investments 0.3 0.5 2.1 4.3 1 Cash relating to the realisation of investments previously held by Coats Group plc.
102 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 Finance costs 2017 2016 US$m US$m Year ended 31 December Interest on bank and other borrowings 14.5 14.4 Net interest on pension scheme assets and liabilities 9.4 13.6 Other finance costs including unrealised gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts 1.2 7.9 25.1 35.9 8 Staff costs The average monthly number of employees was: 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Continuing operations: Direct 12,169 12,171 Indirect 2,475 2,353 Other staff 4,441 4,522 19,085 19,046 Discontinued operations: 58 Total number of employees 19,085 19,104 Comprising: UK 175 220 Overseas 18,910 18,884 19,085 19,104 The total numbers employed at the end of the year were: UK 160 163 Overseas 19,110 18,927 19,270 19,090 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Their aggregate remuneration comprised including directors : Continuing operations: Wages and salaries 327.3 300.7 Social security costs 33.1 29.8 Other pension costs note 10 11.9 12.0 372.3 342.5 Discontinued operations 2.2 372.3 344.7 103 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9 Tax on profit from continuing operations 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m UK Corporation tax at 19.25% 2016: 20.0% Overseas tax charge 61.0 59.6 Deferred tax credit 13.2 12.8 Total tax charge 47.8 46.8 The tax charge for the year can be reconciled as follows: 2017 2016 Exceptional Exceptional and and acquisition acquisition Other Other related related 1 1 adjustments adjustments Underlying items Total Underlying items Total Year ended 31 December US$m US$m US$ US$m US$m US$m US$ US$m Profit before tax 161.4 9.1 9.4 142.9 140.7 4.6 13.6 122.5 Expected tax charge credit at the UK statutory rate of 19.25% 2016: 20.00% 31.0 1.7 1.8 27.5 28.1 0.9 2.7 24.5 Differences between overseas and UK taxation rate 6.9 0.1 6.8 7.3 0.1 0.1 7.1 Non-deductible expenses 7.3 1.1 8.5 3.7 0.4 0.8 4.9 Non-taxable income 0.7 0.7 0.3 0.3 Local tax incentives 1.5 1.5 2.6 2.6 Utilisation of unrecognised losses 2.5 2.5 3.4 3.4 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 4.7 4.7 5.5 0.2 5.3 Potential deferred tax assets not recognised 5.3 1.7 7.0 11.9 2.0 13.9 Impact of changes in tax rates 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 Impact of US Tax reform 3.0 3.0 Prior year adjustments 3.9 3.9 2.9 2.9 Withholding tax on remittances net of double tax credits and other taxes not based on profits 6.2 6.2 10.6 10.6 Income tax expense credit 51.6 0.7 3.1 47.8 47.2 0.4 46.8 Effective tax rate 32% 8% 33% 33% 34% 9% 0% 38% 1 Other adjustments consist of net interest on pension scheme assets and liabilities of $9.4 million 2016: $13.6 million and the one off non-cash impact of US Tax Reform.
The Groups underlying effective tax rate is higher than the blended rate of the countries we operate in primarily due to the impact of unrelieved tax losses in countries where we are not currently able to recognise deferred tax assets in respect of those losses and the impact of withholding taxes on the repatriation of earnings and royalties to the UK.
Excluding exceptional and acquisition related items, the impact of net interest on pension scheme assets and liabilities and the impact of US Tax reform, the underlying effective rate on pre-tax profits reduced by 200bps to 32% 2016: 34%.
The lower tax rate was driven by a reduction in unrelieved losses, together with a favourable change in profit mix for the period.
The tax reform measures introduced by the US Government in the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act resulted in a one-off non-cash tax credit of $3.0 million 200 bps as a result of the revaluation of the net US deferred tax liabilities.
A further tax credit of $2.9 million was taken directly to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in relation to the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities in respect of US defined benefit pension arrangements.
104 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The Group has reviewed the available detail of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act but do not expect the changes to have a significant impact on the Groups future underlying effective tax rate despite the reduction in the headline US Corporate Income Tax rate from 35% to 21% with effect from 1 January 2018.
The benefit of the rate reduction is offset by provisions to limit net interest expense to 30% of adjusted taxable income and the loss of the domestic production activities deduction, which the Groups US operations have historically benefitted from.
Further detail and guidance is expected to be released in the coming months and the Group will continue to monitor this.
Uncertain tax positions The Groups current tax liability includes a number of tax provisions, which although individually are relatively small, together they total $13.3 million 2016: $8.4 million.
These provisions relate to managements estimate of the amount of tax payable on open tax returns yet to be agreed with the local tax authorities.
The Group evaluates uncertain tax items, which are subject to interpretation and agreement of the position with the local Tax Authorities and consequently agreement may not be reached for a number of years.
Primarily the tax items for which a provision has been made relate to the interpretation of transfer pricing legislation and practices across the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The final outcome on resolution of open issues with the relevant local Tax Authorities may vary significantly due to the uncertainty associated with such tax items and the continual evolution and development of local Tax Authorities.
There is a wide range of possible outcomes and any variances in the final outcome to the provided amount will affect the tax financial results in the year of agreement.
However, it is not expected that a material adjustment would be required to these provisions within the next year.
The amount provided for uncertain tax positions has been made using the best estimate of the tax expected to be ultimately paid, taking into account any progress on the discussions with local Tax Authorities, together with expert in-house and third party advice on the potential outcome and recent developments in case law, Tax Authority practices and previous experience.
Taxation paid During the year the Group made Corporate Income Tax payments including withholding and dividend distribution taxes of $60.5 million 2016: $57.9 million.
The amount of tax paid in each jurisdiction is as follows: 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m India 10.9 12.9 Vietnam 9.7 9.0 UK 7.1 7.1 Indonesia 7.1 9.3 USA 6.9 2.2 Singapore 3.8 2.2 Colombia 1.8 1.3 Turkey 1.7 1.8 Mexico 1.7 1.3 Bangladesh 1.6 2.3 Argentina 1.4 0.5 Germany 1.3 China 1.1 2.1 Spain 0.8 0.7 Romania 0.5 0.6 Others 25 countries each less than $0.5 million 3.1 4.6 Total corporate income tax paid 60.5 57.9 105 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The taxes paid in the UK, Singapore and Germany are withholding taxes on royalties, group charges and dividends, deducted and paid at source in the following jurisdictions: 2017 US$m Indonesia 3.3 India 2.1 Bangladesh 0.9 Turkey 0.8 China 0.8 Sri Lanka 0.5 Others each less than $0.5 million 3.8 Total withholding taxes paid 12.2 10 Retirement and other post-employment benefit arrangements a Pension and other post-employment costs Pension and other post-employment costs charged to operating profit for the year were continuing operations : Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Defined contribution schemes 4.0 3.4 Defined benefit schemes Coats UK funded 1.8 Coats US funded 3.5 3.4 Staveley Brunel Other funded and unfunded 4.4 3.4 7.9 8.6 Administrative expenses for defined benefit schemes 7.5 8.7 19.4 20.7 b Defined contribution schemes The Group operates a number of defined contribution plans around the world to provide pension benefits.
"c Defined benefit schemes The Group has three UK defined benefit schemes, namely the Brunel Holdings Pension Scheme ""Brunel"", the Staveley Industries Retirement Benefits Scheme ""Staveley"" and the Coats Pension Plan ""Coats UK"" which offer both pensions in retirement and death benefits to members."
These schemes are all closed to new members and future benefit accrual.
The UK defined benefit schemes are administered by trustees, hold assets held in funds that are legally separated from the Group and are subject to UK legislation with oversight from the Pensions Regulator.
The trustee boards of the schemes are composed of representatives of both the Group and scheme members together with independent trustees.
The trustee boards are required by law and the schemes rules to act in the interest of the schemes members and other stakeholders in the scheme for example the Group.
The trustee boards are responsible for setting each schemes investment policy following consultation with the Group.
"In addition, the Group has the Coats North America Pension Plan ""Coats US"" which is a defined benefit scheme the assets of which are held in funds that are legally separated from the Group."
Finally, the Group also operates various other pension and other post-retirement arrangements in most of the countries in which it operates most significantly in Germany.
Detailed disclosures in respect of the three UK plans and the Coats US plan are given in this note as the defined benefit obligations under these schemes represent 96% of all defined benefit obligations.
The UK funded schemes each operate an investment policy specific to the scheme.
However these strategies all adopt a similar approach whereby a portion of the fund is invested in assets Bonds that broadly match movements in the value of the schemes liabilities and a portion in assets that are anticipated to deliver a return in excess of the change in value of the liabilities.
The following disclosures do not include information in respect of schemes operated by joint ventures.
106 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED i Principal risks The Group is exposed to actuarial and investment risks, the principal risks are: Risk Description Commentary Interest rate risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liabilities is The impact of the movement in discount rates are calculated using a discount rate determined by reference shown on page 114.
The Trustees of the UK and US to bond yields.
A decrease in bond yield rates will increase schemes hedge these sensitivities through physical defined benefit obligations.
The UK schemes are in aggregate approximately 70% hedged against interest rate movements.
Inflation The present value of the defined benefit liabilities are calculated The impact of the movement in inflation rates are by reference to assumed future inflation rates.
An increase shown on page 114.
The Trustees of the UK and US in inflation rates will increase defined benefit obligations.
schemes hedge these sensitivities through physical bonds and derivatives.
The UK schemes are in aggregate approximately 70% hedged against inflation rate movements.
Longevity risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is The impact of an increase in life expectancy is shown calculated by reference to the best estimate of member on page 114.
Currently this is not a risk that is hedged life expectancies.
An increase in life expectancy will by the Groups pension schemes.
Investment risk The scheme assets are shown on a marked-to-market basis.
The UK funded plans are diversified by asset class, at A decrease in asset values at a relevant measurement date, individual securities level: geography: and by investment to the extent assets do not hedge liabilities, would lead to managers.
To the extent that any assets are not Sterling an increased disclosed deficit or reduced surplus.
denominated the schemes hedge a portion of this currency exposure back to Sterling.
The US scheme is fully funded and has a significant proportion of fixed income.
The fixed income is invested directly to protect the funded status of the scheme.
Trustees work with fixed income managers to consider the liabilities including key period durations, credit spread duration and convexity and have created a custom fix income benchmark to match the liabilities and protect the funded status.
In addition the schemes investment policies recognise the need to generate cashflows to meet members benefits as they fall due.
ii UK regulatory investigation In 2013 and 2014 the UK Pension Regulator 'tPR' issued warning notices to the Group in respect of its three UK defined benefit schemes.
During 2017 the Group signed binding settlement agreements with the Trustees of all three UK pension schemes.
The binding settlement agreements in respect of the UK Coats Pension Plan and Brunel Holdings Pension Scheme were signed on 16 February 2017.
The binding settlement agreement in respect of the Staveley Industries Retirement Benefit Scheme was signed on 25 June 2017.
The settlements with the three schemes completed shortly after the signing of the binding settlement agreements, and as a result tPR confirmed that its regulatory action in respect of the warning notices issued to the Group in respect of the three UK schemes had ceased.
The principal commercial terms of the combined settlements were: Financial support on the basis of a combined technical provisions deficit as at April 2015 of 582 million to be repaired as set out in the UK funding commitments section iii below: and Access to sponsor support from Coats Limited for future funding needs together with a Company guarantee.
iii UK funding commitments The information provided below for defined benefit plans has been prepared by independent qualified actuaries based on the most recent actuarial valuations of the schemes, updated to take account of the valuations of assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2017.
For the principal schemes, the date of the most recent actuarial valuations at the year end were 1 April 2015 for the Coats UK scheme, 31 December 2015 for the Coats US scheme, 5 April 2015 for the Staveley scheme and 31 March 2015 for the Brunel scheme.
107 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED At the year end the position of the triennial actuarial valuations of the UK defined benefit pension schemes was as follows: The triennial valuation of the Coats UK pension plan as at 1 April 2015 showed an actuarial deficit of 405 million, which equated to a funding level of 79%.
A recovery plan has been agreed with the trustees comprising contributions from 1 April 2015 up to settlement, a one off settlement payment of 200 million in February 2017 and contributions of 8.2 million per annum payable from February 2017 until 30 June 2028.
The triennial valuation of the Brunel scheme as at 31 March 2015 showed an actuarial deficit of 80 million, which equated to a funding level of 59%.
A recovery plan has been agreed with the trustees comprising contributions from 1 April 2015 up to settlement, a one off settlement payment of 34.5 million in February 2017 and contributions of 1.7 million per annum payable with effect from January 2017 until 31 March 2028.
The triennial valuation of the Staveley scheme as at 5 April 2015 showed an actuarial deficit of 97 million, which equated to a funding level of 66%.
A recovery plan has been agreed with the trustees comprising contributions from 1 April 2015 up to settlement, a one off settlement payment of 34.5 million in June 2017 and contributions of 2.2 million per annum payable with effect from June 2017 until 31 March 2028.
The Group will also fund the administrative expenses of the three UK schemes: and the next triennial valuations are due as at 31 March 2018 and are anticipated to be completed by 30 June 2019.
The actuarial valuation deficits above are used to determine the level of deficit repair contributions that the Group is required to pay into the UK pension schemes.
The actuarial valuation is different to the IAS 19 accounting valuation set out below, which are based on accounting rules concerning employee benefits and shown on the consolidated statement of financial position.
"The actuarial valuations are generally based on the more prudent ""Technical Provisions"" basis than that used for accounting purposes and as a result the actuarial deficits are generally higher than the accounting deficits."
It should also be noted that the accounting deficit figures are calculated as at the balance sheet date of 31 December 2017.
The actuarial valuations were performed on the dates set out above and are before the one-off pension settlement payments and subsequent deficit repair contributions.
iv Principal assumptions For the principal assumptions for the 3 UK schemes and the US scheme are as follows: Coats UK Coats US Staveley Brunel Other Principal assumptions at 31 December 2017 % % % % % Rate of increase in salaries 3.0 4.4 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.1 Various Various 2.8 Discount rate 2.4 3.6 2.4 2.4 4.0 Inflation assumption 3.2 2.5 3.2 3.2 3.3 Coats UK Coats US Staveley Brunel Other Principal assumptions at 31 December 2016 % % % % % Rate of increase in salaries 3.0 3.6 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.2 Various Various 2.7 Discount rate 2.5 4.2 2.5 2.5 3.8 Inflation assumption 3.3 2.5 3.3 3.3 2.7 The rate of increase for pensions in payment for the Staveley and Brunel schemes vary in accordance with each members period of membership.
For the Staveley scheme the majority of the increases for pensions in payments fall within the range 2.4% 3.1% 2016: 2.4% 3.2%.
For the Brunel scheme the majority of the increases for pensions in payments fall within the range 3.1% 4.0% 2016: 3.2% 4.02%.
108 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The assumed life expectancy on retirement is: Year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended 31 December 2016 Coats UK Coats US Staveley Brunel Coats UK Coats US Staveley Brunel Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Years Retiring today at age 60: Males 25.7 25.0 25.4 26.0 25.8 26.2 25.5 26.2 Females 27.5 27.2 28.2 28.5 27.8 28.6 28.7 28.8 Retiring in 20 years at age 60: Males 27.3 26.7 27.0 27.6 27.7 28.0 27.4 28.1 Females 29.1 28.9 29.9 30.1 29.6 30.4 30.7 30.9 v Amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement Amounts recognised in income in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: Coats UK Coats US Staveley Brunel Other Group For the year ended 31 December 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Current service cost 3.5 4.4 7.9 Administrative expenses 4.1 1.1 1.5 0.7 0.1 7.5 4.1 4.6 1.5 0.7 4.5 15.4 Interest on defined benefit obligations unwinding of discount 59.7 5.8 8.1 5.6 5.2 84.4 Interest income on pension scheme assets 53.0 8.7 7.5 4.9 1.7 75.8 Effect of asset cap 0.5 0.3 0.8 6.7 2.4 0.6 0.7 3.8 9.4 Coats UK Coats US Staveley Brunel Other Group For the year ended 31 December 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Current service cost 1.8 3.4 3.4 8.6 Administrative expenses 4.6 1.0 1.8 1.2 0.1 8.7 6.4 4.4 1.8 1.2 3.5 17.3 Interest on defined benefit obligations unwinding of discount 77.1 6.0 10.8 7.5 4.8 106.2 Interest income on pension scheme assets 68.6 8.7 8.9 5.3 1.6 93.1 Effect of asset cap 0.2 0.3 0.5 8.5 2.5 1.9 2.2 3.5 13.6 vi Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Actuarial gains and losses were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 US$m US$m Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 10.2 5.0 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 40.7 567.8 Effect of experience adjustments 15.1 50.7 Remeasurement on assets excluding interest income 199.9 205.3 Adjustment due to surplus cap 9.1 8.0 Included in the statement of comprehensive income 145.2 324.8 109 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED vii Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position The amounts included in the consolidated statement of financial position arising from the Group's defined benefit arrangements are as follows: Coats UK Coats US Staveley Brunel Other Total As at 31 December 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 61.1 2.1 17.0 8.8 4.9 93.9 Equity instruments: US 307.7 30.9 24.7 31.0 2.2 396.5 UK 74.2 2.9 9.5 5.2 91.8 Eurozone 98.1 8.1 7.1 10.3 123.6 Other regions 128.1 21.1 7.1 5.2 7.3 168.8 Debt instruments: Corporate bonds Investment grade 809.3 120.4 29.9 26.7 5.8 992.1 Corporate bonds Non-investment grade 72.4 1.3 72.4 19.2 165.3 Government sovereign instruments 474.9 32.1 78.2 39.1 624.3 Global real estate 317.0 0.2 317.2 Derivatives: Total return, interest and inflation swaps 25.9 2.3 28.2 Assets held by insurance company: Insurance contracts 2.9 0.5 0.5 0.6 1.3 5.8 Diversified investment fund 97.1 112.8 77.2 7.3 294.4 Other 6.8 0.4 7.2 Total market value of assets 2,416.9 226.2 359.2 221.0 29.4 3,252.7 Actuarial value of scheme liabilities 2,495.2 145.4 357.3 251.2 140.2 3,389.3 Gross net liability asset in the scheme 78.3 80.8 1.9 30.2 110.8 136.6 Adjustment due to surplus cap 22.8 3.8 26.6 Recoverable net liability asset in the scheme 78.3 58.0 1.9 30.2 114.6 163.2 110 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Coats UK Coats US Staveley Brunel Other Total For the year ended 31 December 2016 Restated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 59.3 2.4 11.7 12.6 0.1 86.1 Equity instruments: US 289.1 42.2 31.9 25.8 1.3 390.3 UK 137.8 3.5 3.5 4.3 149.1 Eurozone 55.4 7.0 6.0 8.6 77.0 Other regions 137.9 21.1 11.7 4.3 8.4 183.4 Debt instruments: Corporate bonds Investment grade 712.0 106.3 190.4 27.1 6.0 1,041.8 Corporate bonds Non-investment grade 40.1 2.2 0.7 17.3 0.2 60.5 Government sovereign instruments 321.4 33.1 17.0 32.6 404.1 Global real estate 156.3 0.4 156.7 Derivatives: Total return, interest and Inflation swaps 25.5 2.2 27.7 Assets held by insurance company: Insurance contracts 2.7 0.5 0.9 0.7 1.3 6.1 Diversified investment fund 26.5 7.2 33.7 Other 3.0 0.5 2.5 Total market value of assets 1,886.5 215.3 273.8 157.6 25.4 2,558.6 Actuarial value of scheme liabilities 2,353.0 146.2 318.6 222.1 129.1 3,169.0 Gross net liability asset in the scheme 466.5 69.1 44.8 64.5 103.7 610.4 Adjustment due to surplus cap 13.1 3.2 16.3 Recoverable net liability asset in the scheme 466.5 56.0 44.8 64.5 106.9 626.7 The above table has been restated to present asset categories on a consistent basis to 2017.
The amounts are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position as follows: 31 December 2017 2016 Non-current assets: Funded 57.9 50.8 Current assets: Funded 6.9 6.7 Current liabilities: Funded 16.9 309.6 Unfunded 7.4 6.2 Non-current liabilities: Funded 101.1 272.0 Unfunded 102.6 96.4 163.2 626.7 111 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the Staveley scheme contributions payable within the next 12 months have been included as a current liability, resulting in a non-current asset of $4.8 million.
In addition, the schemes disclosed as part of the 'other' column in the tables above include surplus positions of $2.0 million 2016: $1.5 million.
Year Year ended 31 ended 31 December December 2017 2016 US$m US$m Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows: At 1 January 3,169.0 3,249.1 Current service cost 7.9 8.6 Interest on defined benefit obligations unwinding of discount 84.4 106.2 Actuarial losses on obligations 45.6 522.1 Contributions from members 0.2 0.4 Benefits paid 198.1 190.1 Exchange difference 280.3 527.3 At 31 December 3,389.3 3,169.0 Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows: At 1 January 2,558.6 2,787.3 Interest income on scheme assets 75.8 93.1 Remeasurement on assets excluding interest income 199.9 205.3 Contributions from members 0.2 0.4 Contribution from sponsoring companies 374.5 104.9 Benefits paid 198.1 190.1 Administrative expenses paid from plan assets 1.9 8.5 Exchange difference 243.7 433.8 At 31 December 3,252.7 2,558.6 Administrative expenses paid from plan assets excludes those expenses paid directly by the Company.
The reconciliation of the effect of the asset ceiling is as follows: Unrecognised surplus at 1 January 16.3 7.6 Interest cost on unrecognised surplus 0.8 0.5 Changes in the effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the asset ceiling excluding interest 9.1 8.0 Exchange difference 0.4 0.2 Unrecognised surplus at 31 December 26.6 16.3 viii Assets without a quoted price in an active market For the Coats UK scheme, included in the tables above are $Nil 2016: $80.8 million of UK equity instruments, $50.8 million 2016: $Nil of corporate bonds Non-investment grade, $Nil 2016: $10.9 million of government sovereign instruments, Global real estate of $80.3 million 2016: $Nil, derivative liabilities of $25.9 million 2016: $25.5 million, diversified investment funds of $97.1million 2016: $Nil and $2.9million 2016: $2.7 million of insurance contracts without a quoted price in an active market.
All other assets have a quoted price in an active market.
For the Coats US scheme, included in the tables above are $120.4 million 2016: $106.3 million of corporate bonds Investment grade, $1.3 million 2016: $2.2 million of corporate bonds Non-investment grade, government sovereign instruments of $12.0 million 2016: $13.8 million, $0.5 million 2016: $0.5 million of insurance contracts and $6.2 million 2016: $3.6 million of liabilities of other assets without a quoted price in an active market.
For the Staveley scheme, included in the tables above are $24.7 million 2016: $31.9 million of US equity instruments, $9.5 million 2016: $3.5 million of UK equity instruments, $7.1 million 2016: $6.0 million of Eurozone equity instruments, $7.1 million 112 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2016: $11.7 million of other region equity instruments, $29.9 million 2016: $98.7 million of corporate bonds Investment grade, $72.4 million 2016: $Nil of corporate bonds Non-investment grade, $78.2 million 2016: $17.0 million of government sovereign instruments, $112.8 million of diversified investment funds 2016: $Nil and $0.5 million 2016: $0.5 million of insurance contracts without a quoted price in an active market.
For the Brunel scheme, included in the tables above are $31.0 million 2016: $25.8 million of US equity instruments, $5.2 million 2016: $4.3 million of UK equity instruments, $10.3 million 2016: $8.6 million of Eurozone equity instruments, $5.2 million 2016: $4.3 million of other region equity instruments, $26.7 million 2016: $27.1 million of corporate bonds Investment grade, $19.2 million 2016: $17.3 million of corporate bonds Non-investment grade, derivative liabilities of $2.3 million 2016: $2.2 million, $77.2 million of diversified investment funds 2016: $26.5 million and $0.6 million 2016: $0.7 million of insurance contracts without a quoted price in an active market.
ix Basis of asset valuation Under IAS 19, plan assets must be valued at the bid market value at the balance sheet date.
For the main asset categories: Equities and bonds listed on recognised exchanges are valued at closing bid prices: Other bonds are measured using a combination of broker quotes and pricing models making assumptions for credit risk, market risk and market yield curves: Global real estate assets are valued on either a fair value approach as provided by the investment manager or notional bid valuations provided by the investment managers due to investments being held within a single priced pooled investment vehicle: Certain unlisted investments, for example derivatives and insurance contracts, are valued using a model based valuation such as a discounted cash flow: and Diversified investment funds are valued at fair value which is typically the Net Asset Value provided by the investment manager.
x Recoverability of plan surplus The recoverable surplus on the Coats US scheme has been recognised in line with the benefit from contribution holidays, plus annual refunds expected from the scheme to fund the US post-retirement medical scheme in accordance with relevant US legislation.
For the Coats UK scheme, which is in IAS 19 deficit, committed contributions to the plan at the balance sheet date are expected to put the scheme into an IAS 19 surplus position.
In addition the Staveley scheme is in an IAS 19 surplus at the balance sheet date.
The Group notes that, for the Staveley scheme and in the event that a surplus emerges in the Coats scheme, it would have an unconditional right to a refund of the surplus assuming the gradual settlement of the liabilities over time and therefore no additional minimum funding requirement have been recognised.
For the Brunel scheme, which is in IAS19 deficit at the balance sheet date, committed contributions to the plan at the balance sheet date would not put the plan in an IAS19 surplus position and therefore no adjustments are required in respect of minimum funding requirements.
This position will be kept under review.
xi Duration of plan liabilities The weighted average duration of benefit obligations is 15 years 2016: 15 years for the Coats UK scheme and 8 years 2016: 9 years for the Coats US scheme, 14 years 2016: 13 years for the Staveley scheme and 13 years 2016: 12 years for the Brunel scheme.
113 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED xii Sensitivities Sensitivities regarding the discount rate, inflation which also impacts the rate of increases in salaries and rate of increase for pension in payments assumptions for the UK scheme and mortality assumptions used to measure the liabilities of the principal schemes, along with the impact they would have on the scheme liabilities, are set out below.
Interrelationships between assumptions might exist and the analysis below does not take the effect of these interrelationships into account: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 0.25% -0.25% 0.25% -0.25% $m $m $m $m Coats UK discount rate 89.9 95.1 83.5 86.8 Coats US discount rate 3.2 3.4 3.2 3.3 Staveley discount rate 11.8 12.4 9.4 9.7 Brunel discount rate 8.1 8.5 6.2 6.4 Coats UK inflation rate 78.6 76.3 73.6 71.5 Coats US inflation rate 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Staveley inflation rate 7.7 7.5 8.4 8.2 Brunel inflation rate 5.3 4.0 3.1 3.1 If members of the Coats UK scheme live one year longer the scheme liabilities will increase by $120.3 million 2016: $104.6 million.
If members of the Coats US scheme live one year longer scheme liabilities will increase by $4.0 million 2016: $3.8 million, however, the would be no overall impact on the recoverable surplus.
If members of the Staveley and Brunel schemes live one year longer scheme liabilities will increase by $15.2 million 2016: $12.3 million and $11.5 million 2016: $10.4 million respectively.
The 2016 sensitivity for life expectancies for the Coats and Brunel schemes have been updated to ensure consistency with the 2017 numbers.
In presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
There was no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis from prior years.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 1% -1% 1% -1% $m $m $m $m Sensitivity of medical schemes to medical cost trend rate assumptions: Effect on total service cost and interest cost components 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 of other schemes Effect on defined benefit obligation of other schemes 2.2 1.9 2.4 2.1 xiii Expected contributions for 2018 The total estimated amount to be paid in respect of all of the Group's retirement and other post-employment benefit arrangements during the 2018 financial year excluding administrative expenses paid by the Company is $23.5 million.
11 Earnings per ordinary share The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations is based on the profit from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders and the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year, excluding shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust but including shares under share incentive schemes which are not contingently issuable.
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing and discontinued operations is based on the profit attributable to equity shareholders.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares used for the calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing and discontinued operations is the same as that used for basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations.
For diluted earnings per ordinary share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to include all potential dilutive ordinary shares.
The Group has two classes of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and those long-term incentive plan awards for which the performance criteria would have been satisfied if the end of the reporting period were the end of the contingency period.
114 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2017 2016 US$m US$m Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders 80.8 63.8 Profit from continuing and discontinued operations attributable to equity shareholders 80.8 59.3 2017 2016 Number Number of shares of shares m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share 1,399.2 1,386.6 Adjustment for share options and LTIP awards 27.4 20.5 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for diluted earnings per share 1,426.6 1,407.1 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December cents cents Continuing operations: Basic earnings per ordinary share 5.78 4.60 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 5.67 4.53 Continuing and discontinued operations: Basic earnings per ordinary share 5.78 4.28 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 5.67 4.22 12 Dividends 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m 2017 interim dividend paid 0.44 cents per share 6.1 2016 final dividend paid 0.84 cents per share 11.7 17.8 The proposed final dividend of 1.00 cents per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2017 is not recognised as a liability in the consolidated statement of financial position in line with the requirements of IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period and, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 29 May 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 May 2018.
There is no foreseeable limit to the net cash inflows from royalties, which are generated from continued sales of thread resulting from the Coats brands, and those brands are therefore assessed as having indefinite useful lives.
The recoverable amount of these brands has been estimated using the relief from royalty method to calculate the fair value and is re-assessed annually by reference to the discounted cash flow arising from the royalties generated by those brands.
The valuation has been based on the latest budget and medium term plan approved by the Board, covering the period to 31 December 2020, applying a pre-tax discount rate of 9.8% and long term growth of 2.6%.
Management believes that no reasonable potential change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable amount.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Gotex 13.7 12.0 Patrick Yarn 4.6 Fast React Systems 4.4 4.0 GSD 3.5 3.1 Other 2.1 2.2 28.3 21.3 116 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The carrying value of the goodwill allocated to the CGUs has been tested for impairment during the year by comparing the carrying value of the CGU to their value in use.
The value in use calculations were based on projected cash flows, derived from the latest budgets approved by the Board, discounted at CGU specific, risk adjusted, discount rates to calculate the net present value.
The calculation of value in use is most sensitive to the following assumptions: CGU specific operating assumptions that are reflected in the budget and medium term plan periods for the financial year to December 2020: discount rates: and growth rates used to extrapolate risk adjusted cash flows beyond the medium term period.
CGU specific operating assumptions are applicable to the cash flows for the years 2018 to 2020 and relate to revenue forecasts, expected project outcomes and forecast operating margins.
A short-term growth rate is applied to the December 2020 plan to derive the cash flows arising in 20212022 and a long term rate is applied to 2022 to determine a terminal value.
The discount rate is based on estimations of the assumptions that market participants operating in similar sectors to Coats would make, using the Groups economic profile as a starting point and adjusting appropriately.
Directors do not currently expect any significant change in the present base discount rate of 9.8%.
The base discount rate has been adjusted for economic risks that are not already captured in the specific operating assumptions.
This results in the impairment testing using a 13.6% to 17.2% pre-tax discount rates.
Management believes that no reasonable potential change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any of the above CGUs to materially exceed their recoverable amount.
117 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 Property, plant and equipment Vehicles and Land and Plant and office buildings equipment equipment Total Cost US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2016 153.4 577.1 98.5 829.0 Currency translation differences 3.8 10.5 0.5 14.8 Subsidiaries bought externally 1.0 1.0 Additions 7.9 19.2 5.7 32.8 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 0.2 0.2 Disposals 12.7 5.4 18.1 At 31 December 2016 157.3 574.1 98.3 829.7 Currency translation differences 5.4 16.3 1.8 23.5 Subsidiaries bought externally 6.9 0.1 0.3 7.3 Additions 3.7 36.0 5.3 45.0 Disposals 0.1 13.9 1.8 15.8 At 31 December 2017 173.2 612.6 103.9 889.7 Cumulative amounts charged At 1 January 2016 76.1 402.7 77.2 556.0 Currency translation differences 1.7 6.2 0.3 8.2 Depreciation charge for the year 3.8 24.3 3.8 31.9 Disposals 11.1 4.8 15.9 At 31 December 2016 78.2 409.7 75.9 563.8 Currency translation differences 2.8 12.3 2.0 17.1 Depreciation charge for the year 3.5 23.7 3.7 30.9 Disposals 0.5 12.7 1.6 14.8 At 31 December 2017 84.0 433.0 80.0 597.0 Net book value at 31 December 2017 89.2 179.6 23.9 292.7 Net book value at 31 December 2016 79.1 164.4 22.4 265.9 Assets charged as security for borrowings: 31 December 2017 0.4 0.4 31 December 2016 0.4 0.4 Analysis of net book value of land and buildings 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Freehold 74.1 64.3 Leasehold: Over 50 years unexpired 1.4 1.4 Under 50 years unexpired 13.7 13.4 89.2 79.1 118 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15 Non-current investments 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Interests in joint ventures see below 12.0 11.0 Available for sale investments: Unlisted investments 1.2 1.1 13.2 12.1 Available for sale investments included within current assets were $0.2 million at 31 December 2017 2016: $0.2 million.
Interests in joint ventures US$m At 1 January 2017 11.0 Additions 3.4 Dividends receivable 1.1 Share of loss after tax 1.3 At 31 December 2017 12.0 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Share of net assets on acquisition 10.6 10.6 Share of post-acquisition retained profits 1.4 0.4 Share of net assets 12.0 11.0 The following table provides summarised financial information on the Groups share of its joint ventures, relating to the period during which they were joint ventures, and excludes goodwill: 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Summarised income statement information: Revenue 30.8 31.0 Loss profit before tax 0.6 0.2 Taxation 0.5 0.4 Loss after tax 1.1 0.2 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Summarised balance sheet information: Non-current assets 8.3 7.9 Current assets 12.4 13.0 20.7 20.9 Liabilities due within one year 7.8 15.1 Net assets 12.9 5.8 119 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16 Deferred tax assets 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Deferred tax assets 24.6 18.1 The Groups deferred tax assets are included within the analysis in note 23.
The movements in the Groups deferred tax asset during the year were as follows: 2017 2016 US$m US$m At 1 January 18.1 12.5 Currency translation differences 0.4 1.3 Transfer from deferred tax liability 9.2 Transfer to current tax 2.4 Credited to the income statement 9.2 9.1 Credited to other comprehensive income and expense 0.5 0.2 Credited to equity 5.6 At 31 December 24.6 18.1 17 Inventories 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 91.7 75.7 Work in progress 39.5 40.4 Finished goods and goods for resale 101.0 89.7 232.2 205.8 18 Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Non-current assets: Trade receivables 0.1 Income tax assets 2.8 1.2 Other receivables 18.1 14.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.6 0.3 21.5 16.1 Current assets: Trade receivables 216.1 198.4 Amounts due from joint ventures 0.3 Current income tax assets 4.6 1.3 Prepayments and accrued income 8.6 6.7 Derivative financial instruments 2.4 3.3 Other receivables 37.2 38.4 268.9 248.4 The fair value of trade and other receivables is not materially different to the carrying value.
The average credit period taken on sale of goods is 55 days 2016: 51 days.
Interest charged in respect of overdue trade receivables is immaterial.
120 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Credit risk is minimised as the exposure is spread over a large number of customers.
An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts on trade receivables of $10.4 million 2016: $11.8 million.
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience, and the movements in the allowance are analysed as follows: 2017 2016 US$m US$m At 1 January 11.8 11.3 Currency translation differences 0.4 0.3 Charged to the income statement 0.4 2.3 Amounts written off during the year 2.2 1.5 At 31 December 10.4 11.8 19 Derivative financial instruments assets Derivative financial instruments within non-current and current assets comprise: 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Fair value through the income statement: Forward foreign currency contracts 1.9 3.1 Fair value hedges through the statement of comprehensive income: Other derivative financial instruments 1.1 0.5 3.0 3.6 Amounts shown within non-current assets 0.6 0.3 Amounts shown within current assets 2.4 3.3 The fair values of these financial instruments are calculated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market interest and foreign currency rates prevailing at the year end.
20 Trade and other payables 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade payables 195.1 176.4 Amounts owed to joint ventures 13.0 11.5 Other tax and social security payable 6.9 7.8 Other payables 43.2 37.9 Accruals and deferred income 52.7 53.7 Derivative financial instruments 1.8 8.7 Employee entitlements excluding pensions 17.7 14.8 330.4 310.8 Amounts falling due after more than one year: Other payables 24.6 14.6 Employee entitlements excluding pensions 1.3 1.2 Derivative financial instruments 1.3 27.2 15.8 The fair value of trade and other payables is not materially different to the carrying value.
Interest paid to suppliers in respect of overdue trade payables is immaterial.
121 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 Derivative financial instruments liabilities Derivative financial instruments within non-current and current liabilities comprise: 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Fair value through the income statement: Forward foreign currency contracts 1.5 8.7 Fair value hedges through the statement of comprehensive income: Other derivative financial instruments 1.6 3.1 8.7 Amounts shown within non-current liabilities 1.3 Amounts shown within current liabilities 1.8 8.7 The fair values of these financial instruments are calculated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market interest and foreign currency rates prevailing at the year end.
22 Borrowings 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Bank overdrafts 1.6 6.2 Borrowings repayable within one year 0.1 1.5 Due within one year 1.7 7.7 Borrowings repayable between one and two years 0.3 58.5 Borrowings repayable between two and five years 132.9 332.1 Due after more than five years 225.0 Due after more than one year 358.2 390.6 Bank overdrafts 1.6 6.2 Series A and Series B Senior Notes 225.0 Bank and other borrowings 133.3 392.1 359.9 398.3 On 6 December 2017 the Group issued $125.0 million of 3.88% Series A Senior Notes due 6 December 2024 and $100.0 million of 4.07% Series B Senior Notes due 6 December 2027 in a US private placement.
Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on 6 June and 6 December of each year beginning on 6 June 2018.
The Senior Notes are unsecured and rank equally with all the Groups other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
On 6 December 2017 the Group also agreed a new $350.0 million five year bank facility.
The Senior Notes and the new bank facility replace the Groups $680.0 million bank facility that was due to mature in March 2020.
At 31 December 2017, the Groups borrowings shown above comprised $133.3 million of secured borrowings 2016: $394.6 million and $226.6 million of unsecured borrowings 2016: $3.7 million.
The currency and interest rate profile of the Groups borrowings is included in note 34 on page 137.
122 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 Deferred tax liabilities 2017 2016 US$m US$m At 1 January 31.7 33.0 Currency translation differences 0.8 0.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries 4.8 Reclassified from deferred tax assets 9.2 Transfer to current tax 4.5 2.1 Credited to the income statement 4.0 3.7 Credited charged to the other comprehensive income and expense 0.5 0.1 At 31 December 14.3 31.7 2017 2016 Provided Unprovided Provided Unprovided recognised unrecognised recognised unrecognised US$m US$m US$m US$m The Groups net deferred tax liabilities assets are analysed as follows: Accelerated tax depreciation on tangible fixed assets 12.1 7.3 14.7 5.8 Other temporary differences 14.9 25.3 6.7 13.0 Revenue losses carried forward 16.4 313.8 12.6 258.3 Capital losses carried forward 265.2 242.5 Investment in subsidiaries 7.1 3.9 10.6 4.1 Brands 40.7 40.7 Retirement benefit obligations offset against brands 40.7 40.7 Retirement benefit obligations 1.8 5.3 7.6 43.9 10.3 613.0 13.6 559.4 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: Deferred tax assets note 16 24.6 18.1 Deferred tax liabilities 14.3 31.7 10.3 13.6 At the year end, the Group had approximately $1.5 billion 2016: $1.2 billion of unused gross income tax losses and approximately $1.5 billion 2016: $1.4 billion of unused gross capital losses available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of $16.4 million 2016: $12.6 million has been recognised in respect of $66.0 million 2016: $45.0 million of such income tax losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses due to lack of certainty regarding the availability of future taxable income.
Such losses are only recognised in the financial statements to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that sufficient future taxable profits will be available for offset.
123 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The Groups income tax losses can be analysed as follows: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Expiring within 5 years 30.0 30.8 Expiring in more than 5 years 11.0 7.2 Available indefinitely 1,486.3 1,188.1 1,527.3 1,226.1 At 31 December 2017, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is $3.9 million 2016: $4.1 million.
Deferred tax on distribution of these profits has not been provided on the grounds that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the remaining temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
24 Provisions 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Provisions are included as follows: Current liabilities 18.3 17.1 Non-current liabilities 33.5 34.8 51.8 51.9 Provisions are analysed as follows: 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Onerous leases 4.0 4.8 Other provisions 47.8 47.1 51.8 51.9 Onerous Other leases provisions Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2017 4.8 47.1 51.9 Currency translation differences 0.4 1.3 1.7 Utilised in year 0.4 9.0 9.4 Credited charged to the income statement 0.8 8.4 7.6 At 31 December 2017 4.0 47.8 51.8 Provisions for onerous leases are held in respect of leasehold properties for which the Group has rent and other commitments in respect of properties which are vacant or sublet.
The majority of head leases expire before 2020.
The currency profile of onerous leases is included in note 34 on page 137 and the maturity of onerous leases in included in note 34 on page 139.
Other provisions include the following amounts set aside to cover certain legal and other regulatory claims, including in respect of the Lower Passaic River see note 28 for further details, which are expected to be substantially utilised within the next ten years.
124 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25 Operating lease commitments 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases: Payable within one year 17.1 15.6 Payable between one and five years 31.5 25.0 Payable after more than five years 13.8 6.7 62.4 47.3 At the balance sheet date, the Group had contracted with tenants for receipt of the following minimum lease payments: 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Receivable within one year 0.2 0.2 Receivable between one and five years 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.7 Operating leases relate principally to land and buildings and vehicles.
26 Share capital 2017 2016 31 December Number US$m Number US$m Ordinary Shares of 5p each 1,413,300,648 87.5 1,407,612,282 127.0 During the year ended 31 December 2017 the Company issued 5,688,366 Ordinary shares of 5p each 2016: Nil following the exercise of share options as set out below: Number of shares US$m At 1 January 2017 1,407,612,282 127.0 Issue of ordinary shares 5,688,366 0.4 Change in functional currency see note 1 c 39.9 At December 2017 1,413,300,648 87.5 The own shares reserve at 31 December 2017 of $7.7 million 2016: $10.5 million represents the cost of shares in Coats Group plc purchased in the market and held by an Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy awards under the Groups share based incentive plans.
The number of shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust at 31 December 2017 was 19,025,392 2016: 25,746,861.
Options outstanding under the Groups 2002 share option scheme at 31 December 2017 were as set out below: Exercise price Share Option Scheme Number Date granted pence per share Exercise period 2002 Share Option Scheme: Ordinary 6,245,700 10.04.08 49.9961 10.04.11 to 10.04.18 Ordinary 589,706 30.06.09 25.9529 30.06.12 to 30.06.19 During the year ended 31 December 2017 10,554,440 2016: 947,389 options under the Groups 2002 share option scheme were exercised and 6,809,255 2016: 13,150,014 options lapsed.
Details of share awards outstanding under the Groups LTIP and Deferred Bonus Plans are set out in note 35.
125 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 Reserves and non-controlling interests Share Capital Nonpremium Own Translation reduction Other Retained controlling account shares reserve reserve reserves loss interests US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2017 11.6 10.5 121.1 85.2 250.9 274.6 22.5 Change in functional currency 10.8 1.8 78.5 25.4 4.2 Dividends 17.8 12.3 Currency translation differences 6.2 0.1 Decrease in fair value of cash flow hedges 1.1 Transfer to income statement 0.2 Actuarial gains on employee benefits 145.2 Tax on actuarial gains and losses 1.0 Issue of ordinary shares 2.6 Movement in own shares 4.3 1.0 5.2 Share based payments 6.4 Deferred tax on share schemes 5.6 Profit for the year 80.8 14.3 At December 2017 7.7 7.7 48.8 59.8 245.8 58.6 24.6 The table below shows financial information of non-wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group that have non-controlling interests: Profit allocated to nonAccumulated noncontrolling interests controlling interests Year ended Year ended 31 31 31 31 December December December December 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m EMEA 0.4 0.5 1.8 2.2 Asia & Rest of World 13.9 11.4 22.8 20.3 14.3 11.9 24.6 22.5 The proportion of ownership interests and voting rights of non-wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group held by non-controlling interests is set out on pages 153 to 159.
126 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28 Contingent liabilities and environmental matters Guarantees The Group previously provided a guarantee of the banking facilities of Australian Country Spinners Ltd ACS, a joint venture, on a joint and several basis with the other shareholder.
During the year ended 31 December 2017 ACS repaid amounts outstanding under the bank facilities.
The Groups liability under the guarantee amounted to $1.9 million at 31 December 2016.
Environmental matters As noted in previous reports, the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA has notified Coats & Clark, Inc. CC that CC is a potentially responsible party PRP under the US Superfund law for investigation and remediation costs at the 17 mile Lower Passaic River Study Area LPR in New Jersey in respect of alleged operations of a predecessors former facilities in that area prior to 1950.
Approximately 50 PRPs are currently members of a cooperating parties group CPG of companies, formed to fund and conduct a remedial investigation and feasibility study of the area.
CC has analysed its predecessors operating history prior to 1950, when it left the LPR, and has concluded that it was not responsible for the contaminants and environmental damage that are the primary focus of the EPA process.
CC also believes that there are many parties that will participate in the LPRs remediation that are not currently funding the study of the river, including those that are the most responsible for its contamination.
In April 2014, the EPA released a Focused Feasibility Study and Proposed Plan FFS for the lower 8 miles of the LPR.
The FFS analyses a series of remedial alternatives.
In March 2015, CC and other companies submitted a petition to EPA, asserting that they are fide minimis parties and seeking a meeting to commence settlement discussions.
In March 2016, EPA issued a Record of Decision selecting a remedy for the lower 8 miles of the LPR pursuant to the FFS at an estimated cost of $1.38 billion on a net present value basis.
The EPAs Record of Decision did not include a remedial decision for the upper 9 miles of the LPR.
The EPA may consider the CPGs proposed remedial alternative for the upper 9 miles, or it may select a different remedy.
Discussions with EPA regarding the nature and timing of such a decision are ongoing.
EPA has entered into an administrative order on consent AOC with Occidental Chemical Corporation OCC, which has been identified as being responsible for the most significant contamination in the river, concerning the design of the selected remedy for the lower eight miles of the LPR.
Maxus Energy Corporation Maxus, which provided an indemnity to OCC that covered the LPR, has been granted Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, but OCC remains responsible for its remedial obligations even in the absence of Maxus indemnity.
The approved bankruptcy plan also created a liquidating trust to pursue potential claims against Maxus parent entity, YPF SA, and potentially others, which could result in additional funding for the LPR remedy.
While the ultimate costs of the remedial design and the final remedy are expected to be shared among hundreds of parties, including many who are not currently in the CPG, the allocation of remedial costs among those parties has not yet been determined.
In March 2017, EPA notified 20 parties not associated with the disposal or release of any contaminants of concern as being eligible for early cash out settlements.
As expected, EPA did not identify CC as one of the 20 parties.
EPA has invited approximately 80 other parties, including CC, to participate in an allocation process to determine their respective allocation shares and potential eligibility for future cash out settlements.
In the upcoming allocation, CC intends to present factual and scientific evidence that it is not responsible for the discharge of dioxins, furans or PCBs the contaminants that are driving the remediation of the LPR and that it is a fide minimis party.
The duration and scope of the allocation process have yet to be finally determined.
In 2015, a provision of $9.0 million was recorded for remediation costs for the entire 17 miles of the LPR.
This provision was based on CCs estimated share of fide minimis costs for EPAs selected remedy for the lower 8 miles of the LPR and the remedy proposed by the CPG for the upper 9 miles.
A separate provision of $6.8 million was recorded for associated legal and professional costs in defence of CCs position.
Both of these charges to the income statement were net of insurance reimbursements and were stated on a net present value basis.
As at 31 December 2017, $4.5 million of this provision had been utilised.
The remaining provision at 31 December 2017, taking into account insurance reimbursement, was $11.3 million.
The process concerning the LPR continues to evolve and these estimates are subject to change based upon the scope of the remedy selected by EPA for the upper 9 miles, the share of remedial costs to be paid by the major polluters on the river, and the share of remaining remedial costs apportioned among CC and other companies.
Coats believes that CCs predecessor did not generate any of the contaminants which are driving the current and anticipated remedial actions in the LPR, that it has valid legal defences which are based on its own analysis of the relevant facts, that it is a fide minimis party, and that additional parties not currently in the CPG will be responsible for a significant share of the ultimate costs of remediation.
However, as this matter evolves, CC could record additional provisions and such provisions could increase materially based on further decisions by EPA, negotiations among the parties, and other future events.
127 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 Capital commitments As at 31 December 2017, the Group had commitments of $7.4 million in respect of contracts placed for future capital expenditure 2016: $5.6 million.
30 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement a Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash outflow inflow from operations 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Operating profit 167.2 153.3 Depreciation 30.9 31.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 11.1 8.8 Other operating exceptional and acquisition related items see note 4 6.5 4.6 Pre-exceptional operating profit before depreciation and amortisation EBITDA 215.7 198.6 Increase in inventories 14.6 3.7 Increase decrease in debtors 7.2 5.9 Increase decrease in creditors 15.6 5.7 Provision movements 372.8 113.3 Foreign exchange and other non-cash movements 6.5 2.5 Discontinued operations 0.6 4.9 Net cash outflow inflow from operations 157.4 79.4 b Investment income 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Interest and other income 0.2 3.0 Dividends received from joint ventures 1.1 1.0 1.3 4.0 c Capital expenditure and financial investment 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 50.1 40.1 Disposal of available-for-sale investments 0.3 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 1.1 49.7 38.7 d Acquisitions and disposals 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Acquisition of businesses 19.9 36.3 Investment in joint venture 3.2 0.4 Discontinued operations 3.7 23.1 40.4 128 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED e Summary of net debt cash 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m 1 Parent Group cash and cash equivalents 0.5 343.1 Other group cash and cash equivalents 117.9 133.4 Total cash and cash equivalents 118.4 476.5 Bank overdrafts 1.6 6.2 Net cash and cash equivalents 116.8 470.3 Other borrowings 358.3 392.1 Total net debt cash 241.5 78.2 1 Parent group cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2016 related to the realisation of investments previously held by Coats Group plc.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, upfront pension payments were made into the UK Coats Pension Plan, the Brunel Holdings Pension scheme and the Staveley Industries Retirement Benefit Scheme out of Parent group cash following the signing of binding settlement agreements with the Trustees of the schemes.
31 Acquisitions In December 2017, the Group acquired 100% of the voting equity of Patrick Yarn Mill Inc. a company based in North Carolina, US that manufactures high-performance engineered yarns.
It specialises in cut-resistant and flame retardant yarns.
It also produces yarns from recycled fibres marketed under its earthspun trademarks and with its large solar installation promotes its earth friendly yarns as 'Spun by the Sun'.
Patrick Yarn Mill's unique spinning competencies in engineered performance yarns offer an opportunity to expand Coats' existing Performance Materials portfolio as well as to extend its innovation capability.
Coats will support Patrick Yarn Mill's expansion into high-growth markets by leveraging Coats' unrivalled geographic footprint, breadth of global customer relationships and strong corporate brand.
The initial consideration transferred on the date of acquisition was $21.0 million and net of cash and cash equivalents acquired was $19.7 million.
Additional consideration of approximately $1.8 million is expected to be payable in early 2018 subject to finalisation of certain completion consideration adjustments based on the amount of cash and net working capital at the acquisition date.
Contingent deferred consideration amounts are also payable that have been treated as remuneration.
For these amounts to be paid, in addition to financial targets being met, certain employees must also remain with the Group.
Amounts are therefore charged to the income statement over the period of service they relate to.
Up to $4.0 million is payable over a service period of three years to 31 December 2020.
The charge to the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 was $0.2 million.
Given the date of the acquisition of Patrick Yarn Mill, it has not been practicable to complete the assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, including any intangible assets.
Therefore, as permitted by IFRS 3, the excess of the consideration over the provisional net assets acquired has all been provisionally allocated to goodwill amounting to $4.6 million.
None of the goodwill arising on the acquisition is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
129 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Patrick Yarn Mill as at the date of acquisition were as follows: Provisional fair value recognised on acquisition US$m Assets: Computer software 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 7.3 Inventories 6.7 Trade and other receivables 4.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1.3 20.3 Liabilities: Trade and other payables 2.1 Total identifiable net assets acquired at fair value 18.2 Goodwill recognised on acquisition provisional 4.6 22.8 Purchase consideration paid 21.0 Additional purchase consideration estimated to be payable 1.8 Total consideration 22.8 In accounting for the acquisition, adjustments will be made to the book values of the net assets of the companies acquired to reflect their provisional fair values to the Group.
Previously unrecognised assets and liabilities at acquisition are included and accounting policies will be aligned with those of the Group where appropriate.
There are no material contingent liabilities recognised in the provisional amounts above in accordance with paragraph 23 of IFRS 3 revised.
From the date of acquisition, Patrick Yarn Mill contributed $1.8 million to revenues and a loss of $0.3 million, after acquisition related items, to the profit before tax from continuing operations of the Group in the year to 31 December 2017.
If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that revenue from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2017 would have been $42 million and the profit before tax from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2017 would have been $2 million based on unaudited management accounts.
Transaction costs relating to the acquisitions totalling $0.4 million have been expensed and are included in administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement see note 4.
Transaction costs paid in the year ended 31 December 2017 were $0.2 million and are included in cash flows absorbed in investing activities in the consolidated cash flow statement.
130 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32 Discontinued operations a Discontinued operations The results of discontinued operations are presented below.
All amounts relate to the UK Crafts business which ceased operations during 2016.
2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Revenue 8.8 Cost of sales 6.7 Gross profit 2.1 Distribution costs 3.8 Administrative expenses 2.8 Operating loss and loss before taxation 4.5 Tax on loss Total loss from discontinued operations 4.5 The UK Crafts results for the year ended 31 December 2016 include exceptional closure related costs of $1.2 million included in administrative expenses.
The loss per ordinary share from discontinued operations is as follows: 2017 2016 Cents Cents Loss per ordinary share from discontinued operations: Basic and diluted 0.32 The table below sets out the cash flows from discontinued operations: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Net cash outflow from operating activities 0.6 4.9 Net cash outflow from investing activities 3.7 Net cash flows from discontinued operations 0.6 8.6 b Assets held for sale The major classes of assets and liabilities comprising the operations classified as held for sale are as follows: 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 33 Related party transactions Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information regarding the remuneration of individual directors is provided on pages 55 to 67 in the audited part of the Directors remuneration report.
2017 2016 US$m US$m Year ended 31 December Short-term employee benefits 3.6 5.1 Share based payments 0.9 1.3 4.5 6.4 131 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Trading transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed below.
During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: Sale of goods Purchase of goods 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m Joint ventures 2.9 2.8 52.7 46.2 During the year ended 31 December 2017 funding of $3.2 million was provided to the joint venture, Australian Country Spinners Ltd, in connection with the sale and closure of its business.
Amounts owing by to joint ventures at the year end are disclosed in notes 18 and 20.
34 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments The Groups main financial instruments comprise: Financial assets: cash and cash equivalents: trade and other receivables that arise directly from the Groups operations: and derivatives, including forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
Financial liabilities: trade, other payables and certain provisions that arise directly from the Groups operations: bank borrowings and overdrafts: and derivatives, including forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
Financial assets The Groups financial assets are summarised below: 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Financial assets carried at amortised cost loans and receivables : Cash and cash equivalents 118.4 476.5 Trade receivables note 18 216.1 198.5 Due from joint ventures note 18 0.3 Other receivables note 18, net of non-financial assets $24.8 million 2016: $22.2 million 30.5 30.7 365.0 706.0 Financial assets carried at fair value through the income statement: Derivative financial instruments note 19 1.9 3.1 1.9 3.1 Other financial assets carried at fair value through the statement of comprehensive income: Available-for-sale investments note 15 1.4 1.3 Derivative financial instruments note 19 1.1 0.5 2.5 1.8 Total financial assets 369.4 710.9 132 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Financial liabilities The Groups financial liabilities are summarised below: 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost: Trade payables note 20 195.1 176.4 Due to joint ventures note 20 13.0 11.5 Other financial liabilities 114.2 109.5 Provisions note 24 4.0 4.8 Borrowings note 22 359.9 398.3 686.2 700.5 Financial liabilities carried at fair value through the income statement: Derivative financial instruments note 21 1.5 8.7 Derivatives designated as effective hedging instruments and carried at fair value through the statement of comprehensive income: Derivative financial instruments note 21 1.6 Total financial liabilities 689.3 709.2 Other financial liabilities include other payables, other than taxation and other statutory liabilities.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities is summarised below: 2017 2016 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value US$m US$m US$m US$m Primary financial instruments: Cash and cash equivalents 118.4 118.4 476.5 476.5 Trade receivables 216.1 216.1 198.5 198.5 Due from joint ventures 0.3 0.3 Other receivables 30.5 30.5 30.7 30.7 Available-for-sale investments 1.4 1.4 1.3 1.3 Trade payables 195.1 195.1 176.4 176.4 Due to joint ventures 13.0 13.0 11.5 11.5 Other financial liabilities and provisions 118.2 118.2 114.3 114.3 Borrowings 359.9 359.9 398.3 398.3 Derivative financial instruments: Forward foreign currency contracts 0.4 0.4 5.6 5.6 Interest rate swaps 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Net financial liabilities assets 319.9 319.9 1.7 1.7 Market values have been used as proxies for the fair value of all listed investments.
Unlisted investments are stated at fair value.
For floating rate financial assets and liabilities, and for fixed rate financial assets and liabilities with a maturity of less than 12 months, it has been assumed that fair values are approximately the same as book values.
Fair values for forward foreign currency contracts have been estimated using applicable forward exchange rates at the year end.
All other fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
133 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following tables provide an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques which include inputs for the asset or liability that are not observable market data unobservable inputs.
Financial assets measured at fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 December US$m US$m US$m US$m 2017 Financial assets measured at fair value through the income statement: Trading derivatives 1.9 1.9 Financial assets measured at fair value through the statement of comprehensive income: Equity investments 1.4 1.4 Derivatives designated as effective hedging instruments 1.1 1.1 4.4 3.0 1.4 2016 Financial assets measured at fair value through the income statement: Trading derivatives 3.1 3.1 Financial assets measured at fair value through the statement of comprehensive income: Equity investments 1.3 1.3 Derivatives designated as effective hedging instruments 0.5 0.5 4.9 3.6 1.3 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 US$m US$m US$m US$m 2017 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through the income statement: Trading derivatives 1.5 1.5 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through the statement of comprehensive income: Derivatives designated as effective hedging instruments 1.6 1.6 3.1 3.1 2016 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through the income statement: Trading derivatives 8.7 8.7 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through the statement of comprehensive income: Derivatives designated as effective hedging instruments 8.7 8.7 134 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Level 1 financial instruments are valued based on quoted bid prices in an active market.
Level 2 financial instruments are measured by discounted cash flow.
For interest rates swaps future cash flows are estimated based on forward interest rates from observable yield curves at the end of the reporting period and contract interest rates, discounted at a rate that reflects the credit risk of the various counterparties.
For foreign exchange contracts future cash flows are estimated based on forward exchange rates from observable forward exchange rates at the end of the reporting period and contract forward rates, discounted at a rate that reflects the credit risk of the various counterparties.
For equity instruments that are classified as level 3 financial instruments the carrying value approximates to fair value.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are as follows: currency risk: interest rate risk.
capital risk: market price risk: liquidity risk: and credit risk.
The Groups policies for managing those risks are described on pages 135 to 141 and, except as noted, have remained unchanged since the beginning of the year to which these financial statements relate.
Currency risk The income and capital value of the Groups financial instruments can be affected by exchange rate movements as a significant portion of both its financial assets and financial liabilities are denominated in currencies other than US Dollars, which is the Groups presentational currency.
The accounting impact of these exposures will vary according to whether or not the Group company holding such financial assets and liabilities reports in the currency in which they are denominated.
The Board recognises that the Groups US Dollar statement of financial position will be affected by short term movements in exchange rates, particularly the value of Sterling, Euro, Indian Rupee and Brazilian Real.
The Board takes the view that the major currencies in which the Group is invested move within a relatively stable range and that currency fluctuations should even out over the long term.
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to mitigate the currency exposure that arises on business transacted in currencies other than its own functional currency.
Such foreign currency contracts are only entered into when there is a firm commitment to the underlying transaction.
The contracts used to hedge future transactions typically have a maturity of between three months and one year.
Interest rate risk In 2017, the Group financed its operations through shareholders funds, bank borrowings, Senior Notes and overdrafts.
The Groups trading subsidiaries use a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt.
The Group also has access to committed bank facilities amounting to some $350 million, of which $135 million had been drawn down at year end and $225 million of Senior Notes see note 22.
Interest rate risk is managed by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings using interest rate swap contracts.
Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and risk appetite.
The Groups interest income does not vary significantly from the returns it would generate through investing surplus cash at floating rates of interest since the interest rates are re-set on a regular basis.
A reasonably possible change of one per cent in market interest rates would reduce profit before tax by approximately $0.7 million 2016: increase of $1.9 million, and would reduce shareholders funds by approximately $7.0 million 2016: increase of $6.0 million.
Trade and other receivables and trade and other payables are excluded from the following disclosure other than the currency disclosures as there is limited interest rate risk.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital so as to ensure that the Company and the Group will be able to continue as a going concern.
The Groups capital structure comprises cash and cash equivalents and borrowings see Summary of net debt on page 129, and share capital and reserves attributable to the equity shareholders of the Company.
Currency exposure The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have financial assets and liabilities, excluding forward foreign currency contracts, in currencies other than their functional currency.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation of these assets and liabilities are taken to the Group income statement.
The table excludes loans between Group companies that form part of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries on which the exchange differences are dealt with through reserves, but includes other Group balances that eliminate on consolidation.
135 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Net foreign currency financial assets liabilities Indian Brazilian Sterling US dollars Euro Rupees Reals Other Total Functional currency 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Sterling 5.3 2.8 0.8 3.3 US dollars 21.1 1.4 30.4 7.9 Euros 2.7 4.1 0.5 1.9 Indian Rupees 1.6 1.6 Brazilian Reals 3.1 0.1 3.2 Other currencies 2.3 33.3 12.7 0.3 0.7 19.3 21.5 25.4 8.4 0.3 31.0 7.8 Net foreign currency financial assets liabilities Indian Brazilian Sterling US dollars Euro Rupees Reals Other Total Functional currency 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Sterling 0.2 1.8 0.4 1.2 US dollars 13.2 1.3 0.1 0.7 29.2 15.5 Euros 0.5 0.7 0.6 0.4 Indian Rupees 7.8 0.2 8.0 Brazilian Reals 10.9 10.9 Other currencies 0.2 24.4 7.0 2.1 19.3 12.5 22.2 7.3 0.1 0.7 27.3 0.7 The following table shows the impact on pre-tax profit and shareholders funds of reasonably possible changes in exchange rates against each of the major foreign currencies in which the Group transacts: Indian Brazilian Sterling Euro Rupees Reals 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m Increase in US dollar exchange rate 10% 10% 10% 10% Increase decrease in profit before tax 3.9 0.6 0.2 0.3 Increase decrease in shareholders funds 12.3 0.9 4.5 4.4 Indian Brazilian Sterling Euro Rupees Reals 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m Increase in US dollar exchange rate 10% 10% 10% 10% Increase decrease in profit before tax 1.3 0.1 0.8 1.0 Increase decrease in shareholders funds 24.2 1.5 6.1 1.7 136 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Currency profile of financial assets The currency profile of the Groups financial assets was as follows: 2017 2016 Cash and Trade and Derivative Cash and Trade and Derivative cash other financial cash other financial Investments equivalents receivables instruments Total Investments equivalents receivables instruments Total Currency US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Sterling 0.4 6.7 75.9 68.8 343.4 4.5 347.9 United States dollars 0.1 56.0 101.5 102.5 260.1 0.1 48.4 94.6 8.4 151.5 Euros 0.1 3.9 27.4 2.1 33.5 0.1 6.5 22.5 22.3 6.8 Indian Rupees 1.2 5.1 26.7 16.2 16.8 1.1 12.6 21.8 20.0 55.5 Brazilian Reals 3.1 17.6 1.4 22.1 5.5 14.5 1.4 18.6 Other currencies 49.9 66.7 10.9 105.7 60.1 71.6 1.1 130.6 Total financial assets 1.4 118.4 246.6 3.0 369.4 1.3 476.5 229.5 3.6 710.9 The investments included above comprise listed and unlisted investments in shares and bonds.
Currency and interest rate profile of financial liabilities The currency and interest rate profile of the Groups financial liabilities was as follows: 31 December 2017 2016 Derivative Derivative Floating Fixed Interest financial Floating Fixed Interest financial rate rate free instruments Total rate rate free instruments Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency: Sterling 15.1 16.3 1.2 12.9 81.8 68.9 United States dollars 136.8 220.2 144.1 8.0 493.1 156.4 200.3 141.0 165.4 663.1 Euros 20.8 40.1 60.9 37.5 17.9 27.8 27.6 Indian Rupees 42.7 42.7 0.4 39.3 18.5 21.2 Brazilian Reals 1.1 17.8 18.9 14.7 2.3 17.0 Other currencies 1.6 0.2 85.8 12.7 74.9 3.5 0.2 76.4 30.9 49.2 Total financial liabilities 138.4 221.5 326.3 3.1 689.3 197.8 200.5 302.2 8.7 709.2 The benchmark for determining floating rate liabilities in the UK is LIBOR for both sterling and US$ loans.
137 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Details of fixed and non interest-bearing liabilities excluding derivatives and trade and other payables are provided below: 31 December 2017 2016 Financial Financial liabilities liabilities on on Fixed rate which no Fixed rate which no financial interest financial interest liabilities is paid liabilities is paid Weighted Weighted average Weighted average Weighted Weighted period average Weighted period average average for which period average for which period interest rate is until interest rate is until rate fixed maturity rate fixed maturity % months months % months months Currency: Sterling 18 17 United States dollars 3.40% 70 2.80% 19 Weighted average 3.40% 70 18 2.80% 19 17 Currency profile of foreign exchange derivatives Assets Liabilities 2017 2016 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency: Sterling 103.8 83.6 10.3 1.8 United States dollars 82.6 60.5 174.7 176.2 Euros 10.2 28.8 52.3 33.3 Indian Rupee 16.9 19.8 Brazilian Real 1.3 2.3 Other currencies 50.6 38.9 25.1 23.6 264.1 231.6 263.7 237.2 Market price risk The Group has equity and bond available-for-sale investments at 31 December 2017 of $1.4 million $1.3 million held for strategic rather than trading purposes.
The Group does not actively trade these investments and is not materially exposed to price risk.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to reasonably possible price changes for the investments held at the year end.
2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Impact of a 10% increase in prices: Increase in pre-tax profit for the year Increase in equity shareholders funds 0.1 0.1 138 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Liquidity risk The Group typically holds cash balances in deposits with a short maturity.
Additional resources can be drawn through committed borrowing facilities at operating subsidiary level.
During the year the Group has complied with all externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at the year-end: 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m Expiring between two and five years 215.0 239.9 Maturity of undiscounted financial assets excluding derivatives The expected maturity of the Groups financial assets, using undiscounted cash flows, was as follows: 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m In one year or less, or on demand 351.3 692.0 In more than one year but not more than two years 7.8 7.5 In more than two years but not more than five years 1.7 3.5 In more than five years 5.6 5.3 366.4 708.3 Maturity of undiscounted financial liabilities excluding derivatives The expected maturity of the Groups financial liabilities, using undiscounted cash flows, was as follows: 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m In one year or less, or on demand 323.9 303.0 In more than one year but not more than two years 7.0 36.6 In more than two years but not more than five years 136.8 360.4 In more than five years 225.0 692.7 700.0 The above table comprises the gross amounts payable in respect of borrowings including interest thereon, trade and other nonstatutory payables and certain provisions, over the period to the maturity of those liabilities.
Maturity of undiscounted financial derivatives The maturity of the Groups financial derivatives on a gross basis, which include interest rate and foreign exchange swaps, using undiscounted cash flows, was as follows: Assets Liabilities 2017 2016 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m US$m US$m In one year or less, or on demand 264.7 232.0 264.3 237.2 In more than one year but not more than two years 0.6 0.1 0.6 In more than two years but not more than five years 0.2 0.2 1.7 In more than five years 1.1 265.5 232.3 267.7 237.2 139 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Credit risk 2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be as follows: Cash and cash equivalents 118.4 476.5 Derivative financial instruments 3.0 3.6 Trade receivables net of bad debt provision 216.1 198.5 Due from joint ventures 0.3 Other receivables 30.5 30.7 368.0 709.6 Financial assets considered not to have exposure to credit risk: Available-for-sale investments 1.4 1.3 Total financial assets 369.4 710.9 Analysis of trade receivables over permitted credit period: Trade receivables up to 1 month over permitted credit period 17.5 20.3 Trade receivables between 1 and 2 months over permitted credit period 5.6 4.6 Trade receivables between 2 and 3 months over permitted credit period 1.7 1.1 Trade receivables between 3 and 6 months over permitted credit period 1.3 1.6 Trade receivables in excess of 6 months over permitted credit period 0.2 Total gross trade receivables in excess of permitted credit period 26.3 27.6 Trade receivables within permitted credit period 189.8 170.9 Total net trade receivables 216.1 198.5 Analysis of trade receivables impairment provision: Trade receivables up to 1 month over permitted credit period 0.2 0.2 Trade receivables between 1 and 2 months over permitted credit period 0.3 0.3 Trade receivables between 2 and 3 months over permitted credit period 0.3 0.1 Trade receivables between 3 and 6 months over permitted credit period 0.6 0.4 Trade receivables in excess of 6 months over permitted credit period 9.0 10.8 Total impairment provision 10.4 11.8 Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse geographical areas and industries.
Customers requesting credit facilities are subject to a credit quality assessment, which may include a review of their financial strength, previous credit history with the Group, payment record with other suppliers, bank references and credit rating agency reports.
All active customers are subject to an annual review, or more frequent if appropriate, review of their credit limits and credit periods.
The Group does not have a significant credit risk exposure to any single customer.
140 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Hedges During 2017, the Group has hedged the following exposures: interest rate risk using interest rate swaps: and currency risk using forward foreign currency contracts.
At 31 December 2017, the fair value of such hedging instruments was a net liability of $0.1 million 2016: $5.1 million.
Cash flow hedges outstanding at 31 December are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Profit loss Profit loss Within one year 0.2 Within one to two years 0.2 0.1 Within two to five years 0.5 0.1 In more than five years 0.2 0.5 0.4 The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis.
The floating rate on the interest rate swaps is three months LIBOR.
The Group holds both interest rate swaps exchanging floating rate amounts for fixed rate amounts and exchanging fixed rate amounts for floating amounts.
This ensures that the Group holds an appropriate level of both fixed rate and floating rate borrowings, in line with Board approved policies.
The amount accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss over the period that the interest payments on debt affect profit or loss.
35 Share-based payments The total cost recognised in the consolidated Income Statement in respect of share-based payment plans was as follows: 2017 2016  settled Total settled settled Total Year ended 31 December US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Long term incentive plan LTIP 5.5 5.5 4.7 1.6 3.1 Deferred bonuses 0.9 0.9 0.4 0.4 6.4 6.4 5.1 1.6 3.5 The average share price for the year ended 31 December 2017 was 71.4p 2016: 30.7p.
LTIP Under the terms of the Coats Group LTIP, executive directors and key senior executives may be awarded each year conditional entitlements to ordinary shares in the Company in the form of nil cost options.
The vesting of awards is subject to the satisfaction of a three year performance condition, which is determined by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant.
The performance condition includes both market and non-market based measures.
Details of options outstanding under equity settled awards: 2017 2016 Options Options Outstanding at 1 January 81,328,453 54,034,129 Granted during the year 17,201,479 33,425,357 Vested during the year 11,333,072 Lapsed during the year 11,026,303 6,131,033 Exercised during the year 6,329,587 Outstanding at 31 December 69,840,970 81,328,453 Exercisable at 31 December 2,429,441 141 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.0 years 2016: 8.3 years.
The fair value of the market-based component of these awards was calculated using the Monte Carlo simulation method to reflect the likelihood of the market-based Total Shareholder Return TSR performance condition, which attach to 20% 2016: 20% of the award, being met, using the following assumptions: 2017 2016 Vesting period 3 years 3 years Share price at valuation date 52.0p 26.0p Exercise price Nil Nil Risk free rate 0.12% 0.37% Expected dividend yield 0% 0% Expected volatility 28.04% 26.14% Fair value per share 38.6p 14.9p Deferred bonuses Under the terms of the Coats Group Deferred Bonus Plan, any bonuses awarded to executive directors and key senior management will be the subject of a mandatory 25% to 33% deferred into shares, to be held for a three year retention period.
Annual bonuses will be determined by reference to performance, in the normal course measured over one financial year.
Awards are normally exercisable after three years.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.3 years 2016: 2.0 years.
Share option scheme The Company granted a number of awards under a share option scheme prior to 2010.
All share options under this scheme have fully vested and can be exercised up to 10 years from the date of grant.
Outstanding options granted after November 2002 are as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted average Weighted average Options exercise price Options exercise price Outstanding at 1 January 24,199,101 50.46p 38,296,504 52.18p Lapsed during the year 6,809,255 56.55p 13,150,014 57.23p Exercised during the year 10,554,440 48.18p 947,389 25.95p Outstanding at 31 December 6,835,406 47.92p 24,199,101 50.46p Exercisable at 31 December 6,835,406 47.92p 24,199,101 50.46p The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.4 years 2016: 0.9 years.
142 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36 Post balance sheet events Connecting for Growth is a two year transformation programme to drive agility across the organisation, enabling the next phase of growth at Coats and accelerating our transition from the industrial age to the digital age.
This programme will focus on simplification across many aspects of the organisation, connecting the business end to end, and releasing funds for reinvestment in customer-focussed initiatives and people.
Subsequent to the 31 December 2017 year end, on 27 February 2018 it was announced that estimated exceptional reorganisation costs of $30 million are expected to be incurred in connection with this programme, with the majority of these costs expected to be incurred in the year ending 31 December 2018.
It is expected that the majority of savings from this transformation programme will be achieved from reducing complexity in the existing Group.
For example transitioning from market-focussed support functions e. g. Finance, HR and Technology to realigned globally integrated support functions, redesigning the way the Group services a number of its peripheral markets, and moving from a business which is currently operated by individual local management teams into 10 scalable clusters.
37 Alternative Performance Measures This Annual Report contains both statutory measures and alternative performance measures which, in managements view, reflect the underlying performance of the business and provide a more meaningful comparison of how the Groups business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis.
The Groups alternative performance measures and key performance indicators are aligned to the Groups strategy and together are used to measure the performance of the business.
A number of these measures form the basis of performance measures for remuneration incentive schemes.
Alternative performance measures are non-GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice measures and provide supplementary information to assist with the understanding of the Groups financial results and with the evaluation of operating performance for all the periods presented.
Alternative performance measures, however, are not a measure of financial performance under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and should not be considered as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with IFRS.
As the Groups alternative performance measures are not defined terms under IFRS they may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
A reconciliation of alternative performance measures to the most directly comparable measures reported in accordance with IFRS is provided on pages 143 to 146. a Organic growth on a constant exchange rate CER basis Organic growth measures the change in revenue and operating profit before exceptional and acquisition related items after adjusting for acquisitions.
The effect of acquisitions is equalised by: removing from the year of acquisition, their revenue and operating profit: and 1 in the following year, removing the revenue and operating profit for the number of months equivalent to the pre-acquisition period in the prior year.
1 The effects of currency changes are removed through restating prior year revenue and operating profit at current year exchange rates.
Organic revenue growth on a CER basis measures the ability of the Group to grow sales by operating in selected geographies and segments and offering differentiated cost competitive products and services.
Adjusted organic operating profit growth on a CER basis measures the underlying profitability progression of the Group.
Adjusted operating profit is calculated by adding back exceptional and acquisition related items see note 4 for further details.
2017 2016 % Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Growth Revenue from continuing operations 1,510.3 1,457.3 4% Constant currency adjustment 0.1 Revenue on a CER basis 1,510.3 1,457.4 4% Revenue from acquisitions 14.9 Organic revenue on a CER basis 1,495.4 1,457.4 3% 143 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2017 2016 % Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Growth 1 Operating profit from continuing operations 167.2 153.3 9% Exceptional and acquisition related items note 4 6.5 4.6 Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations 173.7 157.9 10% Constant currency adjustment 1.0 Adjusted operating profit on a CER basis 173.7 156.9 11% 1 Operating profit from acquisitions 2.9 - Organic adjusted operating profit on a CER basis 170.8 156.9 9% 1 Refer to the consolidated income statement for a reconciliation of profit before taxation to operating profit from continuing operations.
b Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is presented as an alternative performance measure to show the underlying operating performance of the Group excluding the effects of depreciation, amortisation and impairments and excluding exceptional and acquisition related items.
Operating profit before exceptional and acquisition related items and before depreciation and amortisation Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended 31 December 2017 was $215.7 million 2016: $198.6 million.
Net debt for the Coats operating business excluding Parent Group cash at 31 December 2017 was $242.0 million 2016: $264.9 million.
This gives a leverage ratio of net debt to Adjusted EBITDA at 31 December 2017 of 1.1 2016: 1.3.
Refer to notes 30 a and 30 e for definitions and calculations of Adjusted EBITDA and net debt.
c Underlying effective tax rate The underlying effective tax rate removes the tax impact of exceptional and acquisition related items and net interest on pension scheme assets and liabilities to arrive at a tax rate based on the underlying profit before taxation.
A significant proportion of the Groups net interest on pension scheme assets and liabilities relates to UK pension plans for which there is no related current or deferred tax credit or charge recorded in the income statement.
The Groups net interest on pension scheme assets and liabilities is adjusted in arriving at the underlying effective tax shown below and, in managements view, were this not adjusted would distort the alternative performance measure.
This is consistent with how the Group monitors and manages the underlying effective tax rate.
2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Profit before taxation 142.9 122.5 Exceptional and acquisition related items note 4 9.1 4.6 Net interest on pension scheme assets and liabilities 9.4 13.6 Underlying profit before taxation 161.4 140.7 Taxation charge 47.8 46.8 Tax credit in respect of exceptional and acquisition related items and net interest on pension scheme assets and liabilities 0.8 0.4 Underlying tax charge 48.6 47.2 Underlying effective tax rate 30% 34% The taxation charge for the year ended 31 December 2017 includes a one-off non-cash tax credit of $3.0 million as a result of the revaluation of the net US deferred tax liabilities following the tax reform measures introduced by the US Government in the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act see note 9.
The Groups underlying effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2017 excluding this one-off impact is 32%.
144 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED d Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share growth measures the underlying progression of the benefits generated for shareholders.
2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Profit from continuing operations 95.1 75.7 Non-controlling interests 14.3 11.9 Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders 80.8 63.8 Exceptional and acquisition related items note 4 9.1 4.6 Tax credit in respect of exceptional and acquisition related items 0.7 0.4 Adjusted profit from continuing operations 89.2 68.0 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 1,399,209,804 1,386,628,130 Adjusted earnings per share cents 6.37 4.91 Adjusted earnings per share growth % 30% The weighted average number of Ordinary Shares used for the calculation of adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2017 is 1,399,209,804 2016: 1,386,628,130, the same as that used for basic earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations see note 11. e Adjusted free cash flow Net cash absorbed in generated by operating activities, a GAAP measure, reconciles to changes in net debt resulting from cash flows free cash flow as set out in the consolidated cash flow statement.
A reconciliation of free cash flow to adjusted free cash flow is set out below.
Adjusted free cash flow measures the Groups underlying cash generation that is available to service capital demands.
2017 2016 Year ended 31 December US$m US$m Change in net debt resulting from cash flows free cash flow 330.0 83.7 Acquisition of businesses note 30 d 19.9 36.3 Net cash flows from discontinued operations note 32 0.6 8.6 Net cash outflow in respect of reorganisation costs 0.2 8.0 UK Pensions Regulator TPR investigation costs 3.5 3.7 Payments to UK pension schemes 373.2 99.1 Net cash flows in respect of other exceptional items 5.8 4.2 Purchase of own shares by Employee Benefit Trust 2.9 Receipts from exercise of share options 3.0 0.2 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 17.6 Tax inflow in respect of adjusted cash flow items 0.6 0.8 Adjusted free cash flow 87.2 78.1 145 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED f Return on capital employed Return on capital employed ROCE is defined as operating profit before exceptional and acquisition related items divided by period end capital employed as set out below.
ROCE measures the ability of the Groups assets to deliver returns.
2017 2016 31 December US$m US$m 1 Operating profit before exceptional and acquisition related items 173.7 157.9 Non-current assets: 2 Acquired Intangible assets 45.2 37.9 Property, plant and equipment 292.7 265.9 Trade and other receivables 21.5 16.1 Current assets: Inventories 232.2 205.8 Trade and other receivables 268.9 248.4 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 330.4 310.8 Non-current liabilities: Trade and other payables 27.2 15.8 Capital employed 502.9 447.5 2 ROCE 35% 35% 1 Refer to note 4 for details of exceptional and acquisition related items.
2 With effect from 1 January 2017 capital employed used in the definition of ROCE includes intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisitions of GSD, Fast React, Gotex and Patrick Yarn Mill.
ROCE for the prior year has been restated consistent with the current year definition.
This change has been made to better measure the ability of the Groups assets to deliver returns by including intangible assets acquired through acquisitions of businesses by Coats.
