Shareholder Information The principal markets for trading in AstraZeneca Dividends ShareGift shares are the London Stock Exchange, the Dividend dates for 2018 are shown in the Shareholders that hold only a small number Stockholm Stock Exchange and the New York financial calendar on page 229.
A first interim of shares, the value of which makes it Stock Exchange.
Ordinary Shares of $0.25 dividend is normally announced in July August uneconomical to sell them, may wish to each in AstraZeneca PLC are listed on the and paid in September and a second interim consider donating them to charity through London Stock Exchange and the shareholder dividend is normally announced in January ShareGift, an independent charity share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited, February and paid in March.
Dividends are donation scheme registered charity the Ordinary Share registrar.
Shares listed paid in GBP, SEK and US$, depending number 1052686.
Further information on the Stockholm Stock Exchange are issued on where the eligible shares are listed.
about ShareGift can be found on its under the Euroclear Services Agreement by Further information on dividends declared website at www.
org or by calling Euroclear Sweden AB, the Swedish Central can be found in the Shareholder Information 44 0 20 7930 3737.
Shares listed on the section of AstraZenecas website at New York Stock Exchange are in the form www.
The Unclaimed Assets Register of American Depositary Shares ADSs, AstraZeneca provides information to the evidenced by American Depositary Receipts Shareholders holding Ordinary Shares Unclaimed Assets Register UAR relating ADRs issued by the Companys ADR directly may opt for dividends to be paid to unclaimed dividends paid on Ordinary depositary, Citibank, N. A.
Two ADSs are straight to their bank or building society Shares.
The UAR database provides a equivalent to one Ordinary Share.
Before account, rather than being paid by cheque.
facility to search for financial assets that 27 July 2015 the ratio was one ADS per one To elect for this swift and secure method may have been forgotten and can be Ordinary Share.
of payment, contact the Ordinary Share contacted on 44 0 333 000 0182 or registrar, visit www.
com or fill uarenquiries@uk.
Ordinary Share registrar in the mandate form that will be sent to Equiniti Limited you with your next dividend cheque.
If you Shareholder fraud warning Aspect House hold shares listed in Stockholm, you should Shareholders of AstraZeneca and many Spencer Road contact your personal broker or, if you hold other companies have reported receiving Lancing a VP account, contact the bank that services unsolicited calls and correspondence relating West Sussex your VP account.
If you hold ADRs directly to their shareholdings and investment matters.
BN99 6DA you should contact Shareholder Services on Shareholders are advised to be very cautious UK the number provided.
If you hold your shares of any unsolicited approaches and to note that Tel Freephone in UK : 44 0 800 389 1580 through a nominee, you should direct any reputable firms authorised by the Financial Tel outside UK : 44 0 121 415 7033 queries relating to your shareholding and Conduct Authority FCA are very unlikely to dividend payments to the nominee provider.
Such approaches Swedish Central Securities Depositary are likely to be part of a boiler room scam Euroclear Sweden AB Shareholder communications attempting to defraud shareholders.
PO Box 191 Copies of shareholder communications and SE-101 23 Stockholm annual reports are available on AstraZenecas Shareholders are advised to familiarise Sweden website at www.
If you hold themselves with the information on scams Tel: 46 0 8 402 9000 Ordinary Shares directly, currently receive available on the FCA website, www.
uk hard copies of shareholder communications consumers and within the FAQs in the ADR depositary and or the annual report and would rather Investors section of AstraZenecas website, Citibank Shareholder Services receive these documents electronically, www.
PO Box 43077 you can manage your communication Providence preferences at www.
com or Any suspected scams or fraudulent RI 02940-3077 by contacting the Ordinary Share registrar.
approaches should be reported to the FCA USA If your record on the Ordinary Share register via its website and to AstraZenecas Ordinary Tel toll free in the US : 1 888 697 8018 has been duplicated you may receive multiple Share registrar, using the contact details Tel outside the US : 1 781 575 4555 copies of shareholder communications: if this on this page.
com is the case please contact the Ordinary Share registrar so that this can be rectified.
Investor Relations Annual general meeting AGM AstraZeneca PLC The 2018 AGM will be held on 18 May 2018.
Holders of shares listed in Stockholm 1 Francis Crick Avenue The meeting place will be in London, UK.
should contact Computershare AB, PO Cambridge Biomedical Campus Shareholders holding Ordinary Shares directly Box 610, SE-182 16 Danderyd, telephone Cambridge CB2 0AA are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting 46 0 8 588 04 200 and holders of ADRs UK or may submit a proxy voting instruction in should contact the ADR depositary or their advance, by following the instructions in the personal broker with queries relating to www.
com investors notice of AGM.
com Tel UK : 44 0 20 3749 5717 If you hold shares listed in Stockholm or Shareview Tel US toll free : 1 866 381 7277 hold ADRs, information relating to voting Holders of Ordinary Shares may create a and attendance will be included in the portfolio at www.
co. uk to view relevant notice of AGM.
and manage their AstraZeneca shareholding.
Shareview is a free and secure online service If you hold your shares through a nominee, provided by the Ordinary Share registrar that your nominee provider will be able to advise allows users to, among other things, update you of their arrangements in relation to voting personal details, manage communication and attendance.
preferences, view dividend information and manage direct dividend payments.
228 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information Additional Information Financial calendar History and development of the Company This was achieved by a reduction of capital AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in under section 135 of the Companies Act 1985.
Event Provisional date England and Wales on 17 June 1992 under Upon the reduction of capital becoming Second interim the Companies Act 1985.
It is a public limited effective, all issued and unissued Zeneca dividend for 2017 company domiciled in the UK.
The Companys shares were cancelled and the sum arising as Ex-dividend date 15 February 2018 registered number is 2723534 and its a result of the share cancellation credited to registered office is at 1 Francis Crick Avenue, a special reserve, which was converted into Record date 16 February 2018 Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge US dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing Payment date 19 March 2018 CB2 0AA, UK telephone 44 0 20 3749 5000. on the record date.
This US dollar reserve From February 1993 until April 1999, the was then applied in paying up, at par, newly Announcement of Company was called Zeneca Group PLC.
first quarter results On 6 April 1999, the Company changed its for 2018 18 May 2018 name to AstraZeneca PLC.
At the same time as the US dollar shares were issued, the Company issued 50,000 Annual general The Company was formed when the Redeemable Preference Shares for cash, meeting AGM 18 May 2018 pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty at par.
The Redeemable Preference Shares chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical carry limited class voting rights, no dividend Announcement of Industries PLC were demerged in 1993. rights and are capable of redemption, at par, second quarter results In 1999, the Company sold the specialty at the option of the Company on the giving for 2018 26 July 2018 chemical business.
Also in 1999, the of seven days written notice to the registered Company merged with Astra of Sweden.
holder of the Redeemable Preference Shares.
In 2000, it demerged the agrochemical First interim business and merged it with the similar A total of 826 million Ordinary Shares were dividend for 2018 business of Novartis to form a new company issued to Astra shareholders who accepted Ex-dividend date 9 August 2018 called Syngenta AG.
In 2007, the Group the merger offer before the final closing date, Record date 10 August 2018 acquired MedImmune, a biologics and 21 May 1999.
The Company received Payment date 10 September 2018 vaccines business based in the US.
acceptances from Astra shareholders representing 99.6% of Astras shares and Announcement of In 1999, in connection with the merger the remaining 0.4% was acquired in 2000, third quarter results between Astra and Zeneca, the Companys for cash.
for 2018 8 November 2018 share capital was redenominated in US dollars.
On 6 April 1999, Zeneca shares Financial year end 31 December 2018 were cancelled and US dollar shares issued, credited as fully paid on the basis of one dollar share for each Zeneca share then held.
Issued share capital, shareholdings and share prices At 31 December 2017, the Company had 87,934 registered holders of 1,266,221,605 Ordinary Shares.
There were 107,486 holders of Ordinary Shares held under the Euroclear Services Agreement, representing 10.4% of the issued share capital of the Company and 1,849 registered holders of ADSs, representing 17.7% of the issued share capital of the Company.
2 For shares listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange, the high and low closing sales prices are as stated in the Official List.
3 For ADRs listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the reported high and low sales prices are as reported by Dow Jones ADR quotations.
US holdings At 31 January 2018, the proportion of Ordinary Shares represented by ADSs was 17.7% of the issued share capital of the Company.
At 31 January 2018 there were 87,700 registered holders of Ordinary Shares, of which 703 were based in the US and there were 1,850 record holders of ADRs, of which 1,828 were based in the US.
Major shareholdings At 31 December 2017, the following persons had disclosed an interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company in accordance with the requirements of rules 5.1.
5 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules: Number of Ordinary Shares disclosed as a Date of percentage of issued Number of disclosure to share capital at 1 Shareholder Ordinary Shares Company 31 December 2017 BlackRock, Inc. 100,885,181 8 December 2009 7.97 Investor AB 51,587,810 2 February 2012 4.07 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 63,029,311 14 August 2017 4.98 1 Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any person listed above in Ordinary Shares may have increased or decreased.
No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease arises unless the holding passes a notifiable threshold in accordance with rules 5.1.
5 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
So far as the Company is aware, no other person held a notifiable interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
No changes to major shareholdings were disclosed to the Company between 31 December 2017 and 31 January 2018.
Changes in the percentage ownerships disclosed by major shareholders during the past three years are set out below.
Major shareholders do not have different voting rights.
31 January 31 January 31 January 31 January Shareholder 2018 2017 2016 2015 BlackRock, Inc. 7.97 7.97 7.98 7.99 Investor AB 4.07 4.08 4.08 4.08 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 4.98 3.00 3.00 3.00 So far as the Company is aware, it is neither directly nor indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government.
The Company does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in the control of the Company.
230 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information Additional Information Directors and officers shareholdings Directors The Redeemable Preference Shares At 31 January 2018, the total amount of The Board has the authority to manage carry no rights to receive dividends.
the Companys voting securities owned by the business of the Company, for example, The holders of Redeemable Preference Directors and officers of the Company was: through powers to allot and repurchase its Shares have no rights to receive notices of, shares, subject where required to shareholder attend or vote at general meetings except Amount Percentage resolutions.
Subject to certain exceptions, in certain limited circumstances.
They have Title of class owned of class Directors do not have power to vote at Board one vote for every 50,000 Redeemable Ordinary Shares 657,098 0.05 meetings on matters in which they have Preference Shares held.
On a distribution of assets of the Company, Options to purchase securities from on a winding-up or other return of capital registrant or subsidiaries The quorum for meetings of the Board is a subject to certain exceptions, the holders a At 31 January 2018, options outstanding majority of the full Board, of whom at least of Redeemable Preference Shares have to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were: four must be Non-Executive Directors.
priority over the holders of Ordinary Subscription Normal In the absence of a quorum, the Directors do Shares to receive the capital paid up Number of shares price pence expiry date not have power to determine compensation on those shares.
2,116,201 1882-3929 2017-2023 arrangements for themselves or any member Subject to the provisions of the Companies of the Board.
Act 2006, the Company has the right to redeem the Redeemable Preference Shares The weighted average subscription price of The Board may exercise all the powers of at any time on giving not less than seven options outstanding at 31 January 2018 was the Company to borrow money.
All options were granted under of these borrowing powers would require Company employee share schemes.
the passing of a special resolution of the There are no specific restrictions on the transfer Companys shareholders.
of shares in the Company, which is governed b Included in paragraph a are options by the Articles and prevailing legislation.
granted to Directors and officers of the All Directors must retire from office at Company as follows: the Companys AGM each year and may The Company is not aware of any agreements Subscription Normal present themselves for election or re-election.
between holders of shares that may result in Number of shares price pence expiry date Directors are not prohibited, upon reaching restrictions on the transfer of shares or that 2,495 3307-3597 2018-2021 a particular age, from submitting themselves may result in restrictions on voting rights.
The for election or re-election.
Company is also not aware of any arrangements c Included in paragraph b are options under which financial rights are held by a granted to individually named Directors.
Within two months of the date of their person other than the holder of the shares.
Details of these option holdings at appointment, Directors are required to 31 December 2017 are shown in the beneficially own Ordinary Shares of an Action necessary to change the rights Remuneration Report on page 124. aggregate nominal amount of at least $125, of shareholders which currently represents 500 shares.
In order to vary the rights attached to any During the period 1 January 2018 to class of shares, the consent in writing of the 31 January 2018, no Director exercised Rights, preferences and restrictions holders of three quarters in nominal value of any options.
attaching to shares the issued shares of that class or the sanction As at 31 December 2017, the Company had of a special resolution passed at a general Related party transactions 1,266,221,605 Ordinary Shares and 50,000 meeting of such holders is required.
During the period 1 January 2018 to 31 Redeemable Preference Shares in issue.
January 2018, there were no transactions, The Ordinary Shares represent 99.98% and General meetings loans, or proposed transactions between the the Redeemable Preference Shares represent AGMs require 21 clear days notice to Company and any related parties which were 0.02% of the Companys total share capital shareholders.
Subject to the Companies material to either the Company or the related these percentages have been calculated by Act 2006, other general meetings require party, or which were unusual in their nature or reference to the closing mid-point US$ GBP 14 clear days notice.
conditions see also Note 30 to the Financial exchange rate on 31 December 2017 as Statements on page 189. published in the London edition of the For all general meetings, a quorum of two Financial Times newspaper.
shareholders present in person or by proxy, Articles of Association and entitled to vote on the business transacted, AstraZeneca PLCs current Articles were As agreed by the shareholders at the is required unless each of the two persons adopted by shareholders at the Companys Companys AGM held on 29 April 2010, present is a corporate representative of the AGM held on 24 April 2015.
Any amendment the Articles were amended with immediate same corporation: or each of the two persons to the Articles requires the approval of effect to remove the requirement for the present is a proxy of the same shareholder.
shareholders by a special resolution at Company to have an authorised share capital, a general meeting of the Company.
the concept of which was abolished under the Shareholders and their duly appointed proxies Companies Act 2006.
Each Ordinary Share and corporate representatives are entitled to Objects carries the right to vote at general meetings be admitted to general meetings.
The Companys objects are unrestricted.
The rights and restrictions attaching to the Redeemable Preference Limitations on the rights to own shares Shares differ from those attaching to Ordinary There are no limitations on the rights to Shares as follows: own shares.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Shareholder Information 231 Shareholder Information continued Documents on display This summary is based in part on representations foreign currency payment, determined at the The Articles and other documents concerning of Citibank as depositary for ADRs and spot rate of the relevant foreign currency on the Company which are referred to in this assumes that each obligation in the deposit the date the dividend is received by the US Annual Report may be inspected at the agreement among the Company and the holders, regardless of whether the dividend Companys registered office at 1 Francis depositary and the holders from time to time is converted into US dollars, and it will not be Crick Avenue, Cambridge Biomedical of ADRs and any related agreements will eligible for the dividends received deduction Campus, Cambridge CB2 0AA, UK.
be performed in accordance with its terms.
generally available to US corporations.
If the The US Treasury has expressed concerns that dividend is converted into US dollars on the Compliance requirements under Listing parties to whom American depositary shares date of receipt, US holders of Ordinary Shares Rule 9.8.
4 are released before shares are delivered to generally should not be required to recognise Other than as set out below, the Company the depositary pre-release, or intermediaries foreign currency gains or losses in respect of has nothing to report under Listing Rule 9.8.
4. in the chain of ownership between holders the dividend income.
They may have foreign and the issuer of the security underlying the currency gain or loss taxable at the rates Location of details in American depositary shares, may be taking applicable to ordinary income if the amount Item Annual Report actions that are inconsistent with the claiming, of such dividend is converted into US dollars Details of any long-term Note 27 of the Financial by US holders of American depositary shares, after the date of its receipt.
incentive schemes Statements and Directors of foreign tax credits for US federal income Remuneration Report tax purposes.
Such actions would also be Subject to applicable limitations and the Shareholder waiver Page 98 in the Corporate inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced discussion above regarding concerns of dividends Governance Report tax rates, described below, applicable to expressed by the US Treasury, dividends dividends received by certain non-corporate received by certain non-corporate US holders Property US holders.
Accordingly, the availability of the of Ordinary Shares or ADRs may be taxable Substantially all of our properties are held reduced tax rates for dividends received by at favourable US federal income tax rates.
freehold, free of material encumbrances and certain non-corporate US holders could be US holders should consult their own tax are fit for their purpose.
For more information affected by actions that may be taken by advisers to determine whether they are subject please refer to Note 7 to the Group Financial parties to whom ADRs are pre-released.
to any special rules which may limit their Statements on page 153. ability to be taxed at these favourable rates.
For the purposes of this summary, the term Tax information for shareholders US holder means a beneficial owner of Taxation on capital gains Taxation for US persons Ordinary Shares or ADRs that is, for US Under present English law, individuals who are The following summary of material UK and US federal income tax purposes, a citizen or neither resident nor ordinarily resident in the federal income tax consequences of ownership resident of the US, a corporation or other UK, and companies which are not resident in of Ordinary Shares or ADR held as capital entity taxable as a corporation created or the UK, will not be liable for UK tax on capital assets by the US holders described below is organised in or under the laws of the US, gains made on the disposal of their Ordinary based on current UK and US federal income any state in the US or the District of Columbia, Shares or ADRs, unless such Ordinary Shares tax law, including the US UK double taxation or an estate or trust, the income of which or ADRs are held in connection with a trade, convention relating to income and capital is subject to US federal income taxation profession or vocation carried on in the UK gains, which entered into force on 31 March regardless of its source.
through a branch or agency or other 2003 the Convention.
This summary does not permanent establishment.
describe all of the tax consequences that may This summary assumes that we are not, be relevant in light of the US holders particular and will not become, a passive foreign A US holder will generally recognise US circumstances and tax consequences investment company, as discussed below.
source capital gains or losses for US federal applicable to US holders subject to special income tax purposes on the sale or exchange rules such as certain financial institutions, UK and US income taxation of dividends of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in an amount entities treated as partnerships for US The UK does not currently impose a equal to the difference between the US dollar federal income tax purposes, persons whose withholding tax on dividends paid by amount realised and such holders US dollar functional currency for US federal income a UK company, such as the Company.
tax basis in the Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
tax purposes is not the US dollar, tax-exempt US holders should consult their own tax entities, persons subject to alternative For US federal income tax purposes, advisers about the treatment of capital gains, minimum tax, persons subject to the Medicare distributions paid by the Company to a US which may be taxed at lower rates than contribution tax on net investment income, holder are included in gross income as foreign ordinary income for non-corporate US or persons holding Ordinary Shares or ADRs in source ordinary dividend income to the holders and capital losses, the deductibility connection with a trade or business conducted extent paid out of the Companys current or of which may be subject to limitations.
US holders are urged to accumulated earnings and profits, calculated consult their tax advisers regarding the UK and in accordance with US federal income tax US federal income tax consequences of the principles.
The Company does not maintain ownership and disposition of Ordinary Shares calculations of its earnings and profits under or ADRs in their particular circumstances.
US federal income tax principles and so it is expected that distributions generally will be reported to US holders as dividends.
The amount of the dividend will be the US dollar amount received by the depositary for US holders of ADRs or, in the case of Ordinary Shares, the US dollar value of the 232 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information Additional Information Passive Foreign Investment Company of a permanent establishment of the individual Exchange controls and other limitations PFIC rules in the UK or, in the case of a shareholder affecting security holders We believe that we were not a PFIC for US who performs independent personal services, There are no governmental laws, decrees or federal income tax purposes for the year pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK.
regulations in the UK restricting the import or ended 31 December 2017.
However, since Where the Ordinary Shares or ADRs have export of capital or affecting the remittance PFIC status depends on the composition of been placed in trust by a settlor who, at the of dividends, interest or other payments to our income and assets, and the market value time of settlement, was a US domiciled non-resident holders of Ordinary Shares of our assets including, among others, less shareholder, the Ordinary Shares or ADRs will or ADRs.
than 25% owned equity investments, from generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax time to time, there can be no assurance that unless the settlor, at the time of settlement, There are no limitations under English law we will not be considered a PFIC for any was a UK national, or the Ordinary Shares or or the Articles on the right of non-resident taxable year.
If we were treated as a PFIC for ADRs are part of the business property of a or foreign owners to be the registered holders any taxable year during which Ordinary permanent establishment of the individual in of, or to exercise voting rights in relation to, Shares or ADRs were held, certain adverse the UK or, in the case of a shareholder who Ordinary Shares or ADRs or to be registered tax consequences could apply to US holders.
performs independent personal services, holders of notes or debentures of the pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK.
Company or its wholly-owned subsidiary, Information reporting and backup In the exceptional case where the Ordinary Zeneca Wilmington Inc. withholding Shares or ADRs are subject to both UK Payments of dividends and sales proceeds inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate Exchange rates that are made within the US or through certain tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally The following information relating to US-related financial intermediaries may be provides for double taxation to be relieved average and spot exchange rates used by subject to information reporting and backup by means of credit relief.
AstraZeneca is provided for convenience: withholding, unless: i the US holder is a SEK US$ US$ GBP corporation or other exempt recipient: or ii in UK stamp duty reserve tax and stamp duty Average rates the case of backup withholding, the US holder A charge to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty statement of comprehensive income, provides a correct taxpayer identification reserve tax SDRT may arise on the deposit statement of cash flows number and certifies that it is not subject of Ordinary Shares in connection with the 2015 8.3950 1.5357 to backup withholding.
The amount of any creation of ADRs.
The rate of stamp duty or backup withholding from a payment to a US SDRT will generally be 1.5% of the value of 2016 8.5286 1.3673 holder will be allowed as a credit against the the consideration or, in some circumstances, 2017 8.5835 1.2835 holders US federal income tax liability and the value of the Ordinary Shares.
There is no End of year spot rates may entitle the holder to a refund, provided 1.5% SDRT charge on the issue of Ordinary statement of financial position that the required information is timely supplied Shares or, where it is integral to the raising of 2015 8.4114 1.4816 to the US Internal Revenue Service IRS.
new capital, the transfer of Ordinary Shares 2016 9.1162 1.2272 into the ADR arrangement.
2017 8.2467 1.3468 Certain US holders who are individuals or certain specified entities, may be required No UK stamp duty will be payable on the to report information relating to securities acquisition or transfer of existing ADRs issued by non-US persons or foreign provided that any instrument of transfer or accounts through which the securities are written agreement to transfer is executed held, generally on IRS Form 8938, subject outside the UK and remains at all times to certain exceptions including an exception outside the UK.
An agreement for the transfer for securities held in accounts maintained by of ADRs will not give rise to a liability for SDRT.
US holders should consult their tax advisers regarding their A transfer of, or an agreement to, transfer reporting obligations with respect to the Ordinary Shares will generally be subject Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
to UK stamp duty or SDRT at 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration, UK inheritance tax provided, in the case of stamp duty, it is Under the current Double Taxation Estates rounded up to the nearest 5.
Convention the Estate Tax Convention between the US and the UK, Ordinary Shares Transfers of Ordinary Shares into CREST or ADRs held by an individual shareholder will generally not be subject to stamp duty who is domiciled for the purposes of the or SDRT, unless such a transfer is made for Estate Tax Convention in the US, and is not a consideration in money or moneys worth, for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, a national of the UK, will generally not usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the be subject to UK inheritance tax on the consideration.
Paperless transfers of Ordinary individuals death or on a chargeable gift Shares within CREST are generally liable to of the Ordinary Shares or ADRs during SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the the individuals lifetime, provided that any consideration.
CREST is obliged to collect applicable US federal gift or estate tax SDRT from the purchaser on relevant liability is paid, unless the Ordinary Shares transactions settled within the system.
or ADRs are part of the business property AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Shareholder Information 233
