OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report and Accounts The Report and Accounts is published on the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
com website, which is maintained by F&C.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Companys website.
The work undertaken by the auditors does not for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair legislation in other jurisdictions.
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, Each of the Directors listed on pages 28 and 29 confirm to the the Directors are required to: best of their knowledge that: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable consistently: accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and prudent: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been and performance of the business and the position of the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and explained in the financial statements respectively: and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis in the opinion of the Directors the annual report and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced continue in business.
and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above performance, business model and strategy.
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Further details can be found in notes 2 and 24 on the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that On behalf of the Board the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They Simon Fraser are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Chairman hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 6 March 2018 fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Statement of Corporate Governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
