OVER OVERVIEW VIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPOR AUDITORS REPORT T FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION OTHER INFORMATION How to Invest One of the most convenient ways to invest in Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is through one of the savings plans run by F&C.
Charges F&C Investment Trust ISA You can use your ISA allowance to make an annual taxAnnual management charges and other charges apply according to the type of plan.
efficient investment of up to 20,000 for the 2018 19 tax year with a lump sum from 500 or regular savings from 50 Annual account charge a month per Trust.
You can also transfer any existing ISAs to ISA: 60 VAT us whilst maintaining the tax benefits PIP: 40 VAT JISA CIP CTF: 25 VAT 1 F&C Junior ISA JISA You can pay the annual charge from your account, or by direct debit in addition to You can invest up to 4,260 for the tax year 2018 19 from any annual subscription limits 500 lump sum or 30 a month per Trust, or a combination of both.
Please note, if your child already has a Child Trust Dealing charges Fund CTF, then you cannot open a separate JISA, however you can transfer the existing CTF held either with F&C or ISA: 0.2% another provider to an F&C JISA JISA CIP PIP: postal instructions 12, online instructions 8 per Trust Dealing charges apply when shares are bought or sold but not on the reinvestment 1 F&C Child Trust Fund CTF of dividends or the investment of monthly direct debits for the PIP, CIP and JISA.
If your child has a CTF you can invest up to 4,260 for the 2018 19 tax year, from 100 lump sum or 25 a month There are no dealing charges on a CTF but a switching charge of 25 applies if per Trust, or a combination of both.
You can also transfer a more than two switches are carried out in one year.
CTF from another provider to an F&C CTF.
Please note, the CTF has been replaced by the JISA and is only available to Government stamp duty of 0.5% also applies on the purchase of shares where investors who already hold a CTF.
F&C Private Investor Plan PIP This is a flexible way to invest in our range of Investment There may be additional charges made if you transfer a plan to another provider or Trusts.
There are no maximum contributions, and investments transfer the shares from your plan.
can be made from 500 lump sum or 50 a month per Trust.
You can also make additional lump sum top-ups at any time For full details of our savings plans and charges, please read the Key Features from 250 per Trust.
Document, Key Information Document KID and Terms and Conditions of the plan available on our website fandc.
F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan CIP This is a flexible way to save for a child in our range of HOW TO INVEST Investment Trusts.
There are no maximum contributions, and To open a new F&C savings plan, apply online at fandc.
com apply the plan can easily be set up under bare trust where the child is noted as the beneficial owner or kept in your name if you Note, this is not available if you are transferring an existing plan with another wish to retain control over the investment.
Investments can be provider to F&C, or if you are applying for a new plan in more than one name.
made from a 250 lump sum or 25 a month per Trust.
You can also make additional lump sum top-ups at any time from New Customers: Existing Plan Holders: 100 per Trust.
9:00am 5:00pm, weekdays 1 The CTF and JISA accounts are opened in the childs name and they have access to the money at age 18.
com 2 Calls may be recorded or monitored for training and quality purposes.
By post: F&C Plan Administration Centre PO Box 11114 Chelmsford CM99 2DG F&C Management Limited F&C Investments and the F&C Investments logo are trademarks of F&C Management Limited.
You can also invest in the trust through online dealing platforms for private investors F&C Management Limited 2017.
Issued and approved by F&C Management Limited which that offer share dealing and ISAs.
Companies include: Alliance Trust Savings, is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FRN: 119230 and is a member of the F&C Group of which the ultimate parent company is the Bank of Montreal.
Registered Barclays Smart Investor, Halifax, Hargreaves Lansdown, HSBC, Interactive Office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY.
Registered in England & Wales Investor, LLoyds Bank, Selftrade, TD Direct Investing, The Share Centre.
L56 02 17 CM11982 The value of investments can go down as well as up and you may not get back your original investment.
Tax benefits depend on your individual circumstances and tax allowances and rules may change.
Please read our Key Information Document and Key Features Document before you invest and this can be found on our website fandc.
F&C cannot give advice on the suitability of investing in our investment trust or savings plans.
If you have any doubt as to the suitability of an investment, please contact a professional financial adviser.
