Additional Information Glossary Market definitions Region Country US US Europe Albania Czech Republic Hungary Luxembourg Serbia and Montenegro Austria Denmark Iceland Malta Slovakia Belgium Estonia Ireland Netherlands Slovenia Bosnia and Herzegovina Finland Israel Norway Spain Bulgaria France Italy Poland Sweden Croatia Germany Latvia Portugal Switzerland Cyprus Greece Lithuania Romania UK Established ROW Australia Canada Japan New Zealand Emerging Markets Algeria Costa Rica Iraq Pakistan Syria Argentina Cuba Jamaica Palestine Taiwan Aruba Dominican Republic Jordan Panama Thailand Bahamas Ecuador Kazakhstan Peru Trinidad and Tobago Bahrain Egypt Kuwait Philippines Tunisia Barbados El Salvador Lebanon Qatar Turkey Belarus Georgia Libya Russia Ukraine Belize Guatemala Malaysia Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates Bermuda Honduras Mexico Singapore Uruguay Brazil Hong Kong Morocco South Africa Venezuela Chile India Nicaragua South Korea Vietnam China Indonesia Oman Sri Lanka Yemen Colombia Iran Other Africa Sudan IQVIA, IQVIA Midas Quantum Q3 2017 data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IQVIA quarterly data for these countries.
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates, and excludes countries with revenue in 2017 of less than $1 million.
Established Markets means US, Europe and Established ROW.
North America means US and Canada.
Other Established ROW means Australia and New Zealand.
Other Emerging Markets means all Emerging Markets except China.
Other Africa includes Angola, Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Asia Area comprises India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
US equivalents Terms used in this Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accruals Accrued expenses Called-up share capital Issued share capital Creditors Liabilities payables Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses Earnings Net income Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Loans Long-term debt Prepayments Prepaid expenses Profit Income Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares Short-term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Glossary 235 Glossary continued The following abbreviations and expressions have the following CIS Commonwealth of Independent States.
meanings when used in this Annual Report: CMS China Medical System Holdings Ltd. Abbott Abbott Laboratories.
Code of Ethics the Groups Code of Ethics.
AbbVie AbbVie Inc. Company or Parent Company AstraZeneca PLC formerly Zeneca ACA Affordable Care Act the US Patient Protection and Affordable Group PLC Zeneca.
Care Act which was signed into law on 23 March 2010 as amended by COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases.
the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act which was signed CREST UK-based securities settlement system.
CRISPR clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats.
Acerta Pharma Acerta Pharma B. V. CRL Complete Response Letter.
ADC Therapeutics ADC Therapeutics Srl.
ADR an American Depositary Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
ADS an American Depositary Share representing half an underlying Daiichi Sankyo Daiichi Sankyo, Inc.
Aegerion Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Director a director of the Company.
AGM an Annual General Meeting of the Company.
DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
DOJ the United States Department of Justice.
Almirall Almirall, S. A. DTR UK Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Amgen Amgen, Inc. earnings per share EPS profit for the year after tax and Amplimmune Amplimmune, Inc. non-controlling interests, divided by the weighted average Amylin Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC formerly Amylin number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. EC European Commission.
ANDA an abbreviated new drug application, which is a marketing EFPIA European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries approval application for a generic drug submitted to the FDA.
Annual Report this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2017.
EGFR epidermal growth factor receptor.
Aralez Aralez Pharmaceuticals Trading DAC.
Entasis Entasis Therapeutics Ltd and Entasis Therapeutics Inc. Ardea Ardea Biosciences, Inc. EPO European Patent Office.
Articles the Articles of Association of the Company.
ESMO European Society for Medical Oncology.
ESPC Early Stage Product Committee.
Astellas Astellas Pharma Inc. ESRD end-stage renal disease.
Astra Astra AB, being the company with whom the Company EVP Executive Vice-President.
AstraZeneca the Company and its subsidiaries.
EU 5 European Union Five France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK.
FDA the US Food and Drug Administration, which is part of the AZIP AstraZeneca Investment Plan.
US Department of Health and Human Services Agency, which is BACE beta secretase cleaving enzyme.
the regulatory authority for all pharmaceuticals including biologics biologic s a class of drugs that are produced in living cells.
and vaccines and medical devices in the US.
biosimilars a copy of a biologic that is sufficiently similar to FDC fixed-dose combination.
FibroGen FibroGen, Inc. BMS Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Board the Board of Directors of the Company.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Bureau Veritas Bureau Veritas UK Limited.
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation.
CDP a not-for-profit that runs the global disclosure system for Gilead Gilead Sciences, Inc. investors, companies, cities, states and regions to manage their GMD Global Medicines Development.
GPPS Global Product and Portfolio Strategy.
Celgene Celgene International Srl Celgene Corporation.
gross margin the margin, as a percentage, by which sales exceed CEO the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
the cost of sales, calculated by dividing the difference between the CER constant exchange rates.
CFDA China Food and Drug Administration.
Group AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
CFO the Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
CHMP the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use.
HHA Healthy Heart Africa programme.
236 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information Additional Information IA the Groups Internal Audit Services function.
Novo Nordisk Novo Nordisk A S. IAS International Accounting Standards.
NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer.
IAS 32 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
NSTE-ACS non-ST-Elevation acute coronary syndromes.
IAS 39 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
NYSE the New York Stock Exchange.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
OECD the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
IFPMA International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers OIC opioid-induced constipation.
Omthera Omthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards or International operating profit sales, less cost of sales, less operating costs, Financial Reporting Standard, as the context requires.
Ordinary Share an ordinary share of $0.25 each in the share capital IMED Innovative Medicines and Early Development.
Orphan Drug a drug which has been approved for use in a relatively low-incidence indication an orphan indication and has been rewarded Innate Pharma Innate Pharma S. A. with a period of market exclusivity: the period of exclusivity and the Insmed Insmed, Inc. available orphan indications vary between markets.
Paediatric Exclusivity in the US, a six-month period of exclusivity Ironwood Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to market a drug which is awarded by the FDA in return for certain IS information services.
paediatric clinical studies using that drug.
This six-month period runs from the date of relevant patent expiry.
Analogous provisions are ISAs International Standards on Auditing.
available in certain other territories such as European Supplementary IT information technology.
Protection Certificate SPC paediatric extensions.
PARP an oral poly ADP-ribose polymerase.
PD-L1 an anti-programmed death-ligand 1. krona or SEK references to the currency of Sweden.
Pearl Therapeutics Pearl Therapeutics, Inc. Kyowa Hakko Kirin Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co. Ltd. Pfizer Pfizer, Inc. LABA long-acting beta2-agonist.
PhRMA Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.
Phase I the phase of clinical research where a new drug or treatment LCM projects significant life-cycle management projects is tested in small groups of people 20 to 80 to check that the drug as determined by potential revenue generation, or line extensions.
can achieve appropriate concentrations in the body, determine a safe Lean means enhancing value for customers with fewer resources.
dosage range and identify side effects.
This phase includes healthy volunteer studies.
LEO Pharma LEO Pharma A S. Phase II the phase of clinical research which includes the controlled Lilly Eli Lilly and Company.
clinical activities conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug in LSPC Late Stage Product Committee.
patients with the disease under study and to begin to determine the safety LTI long-term incentive, in the context of share plan remuneration profile of the drug.
Phase II studies are typically conducted in smallarrangements.
or medium-sized groups of patients and can be divided into Phase IIa MAA a marketing authorisation application, which is an application studies, which tend to be designed to assess dosing requirements, for authorisation to place medical products on the market.
This is a and Phase IIb studies, which tend to assess safety and efficacy.
specific term used in the EU and European Economic Area markets.
Phase III the phase of clinical research which is performed to gather mAb monoclonal antibody, a biologic that is specific, that is, it binds additional information about effectiveness and safety of the drug, often to and attacks one particular antigen.
in a comparative setting, to evaluate the overall benefit risk profile of the drug.
Phase III studies usually include between several hundred major market US, EU, Japan JP and China CN.
MedImmune MedImmune, LLC formerly MedImmune, Inc.. PMDA Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency of Japan.
MEK part of the mitogen-activated protein kinase MAPK pathway.
pound sterling, GBP or pence references to the currency of Moderna Moderna Therapeutics, Inc. the UK.
MSD Merck & Co. Inc. which is known as Merck in the US and Pozen POZEN, Inc. Canada and MSD in other territories.
primary care general healthcare provided by physicians who NCD non-communicable disease.
ordinarily have first contact with patients and who may have NDA a new drug application to the FDA for approval to market a new continuing care for them.
Proof of Concept data demonstrating that a candidate drug results NME new molecular entity.
in a clinical change on an acceptable endpoint or surrogate in patients Novartis Novartis Pharma AG.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Glossary 237 Glossary continued PSP AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
PTE Patent Term Extension, an extension of up to five years in the term of a US patent relating to a drug which compensates for delays in marketing resulting from the need to obtain FDA approval.
The analogous right in the EU is an SPC.
Redeemable Preference Share a redeemable preference share of 1 each in the share capital of the Company.
Regulatory Data Protection RDP see Intellectual Property on page 32.
Regulatory Exclusivity any of the IP rights arising from generation of clinical data and includes Regulatory Data Protection, Paediatric Exclusivity and Orphan Drug status.
Roche F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG.
Sanofi SANOFI S. A. Sanofi Pasteur, Inc. Sarbanes-Oxley Act the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
SDRT UK stamp duty reserve tax.
SEC the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the governmental agency that regulates the US securities industry and stock markets.
Seroquel Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR.
SG&A costs selling, general and administrative costs.
SHE Safety, Health and Environment.
Shionogi Shionogi & Co. Ltd. Shire Shire plc.
specialty care specific healthcare provided by medical specialists who do not generally have first contact with patients.
SSE the Stockholm Stock Exchange.
Takeda Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited.
Teva Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. Total Revenue the sum of Product Sales and Externalisation Revenue.
TSR total shareholder return, being the total return on a share over a period of time, including dividends reinvested.
UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the FRC in September 2014 that sets out standards of good practice in corporate governance for the UK.
US United States of America.
US dollar, US$, USD or $ references to the currency of the US.
Valeant Valeant Holdings Ireland Valeant Pharmaceutical International, Inc. WHO World Health Organization, the United Nations specialised agency for health.
ZS Pharma ZS Pharma, Inc. 238 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information
