3 TR TRANSP ANSPA ARENC RENCY Y DISCL DISCLOSURE OSURE Transparency disclosure Bonus payments represent any bonus paid to governments The Reports on Payments to Governments Regulations UK during the year, usually as a result of achieving certain Regulations came into force on 1 December 2014 and require milestones, such as a signature bonus, POD bonus or a UK companies in the extractive sector to publicly disclose production bonus.
payments made to governments in the countries where they Licence fees represent licence fees, rental fees, entry fees undertake extractive operations.
The regulations implement and other consideration for licences and or concessions paid Chapter 10 of EU Accounting Directive 2013 34 EU.
for access to an area during the year with the exception of The UK Regulations came into effect on 1 January 2015, signature bonuses which are captured within bonus but Tullow were early adopters of the EU Directive and have payments.
published our tax payments to governments in full, in our Infrastructure improvement payments represent payments Annual Report and Accounts since 2013.
The 2017 disclosure made in respect of infrastructure improvements for projects remains in line with the EU Directive and UK Regulations and that are not directly related to oil and gas activities during the we have provided additional voluntary disclosure on VAT, year.
This can be a contractually obligated payment in a PSC stamp duty, withholding tax, PAYE and other taxes.
or a discretionary payment for building improving local The payments disclosed are based on where the obligation infrastructure such as roads, bridges, ports, schools for the payment arose: payments raised at a project level and hospitals.
have been disclosed at project level and payments raised at VAT represents net cash VAT received from paid to a corporate level have been disclosed on that basis.
However, governments during the year.
The amount disclosed is equal to where a payment or a series of related payments do not exceed the VAT return submitted by Tullow to governments with the 86,000, they are disclosed at a corporate level, in accordance cash payment made in the year the charge is borne.
It should with the UK Regulations.
The voluntary disclosure has been be noted the operator of a joint venture typically makes VAT prepared on a corporate level.
payments in respect of the joint venture as a whole and, as such, All of the payments disclosed in accordance with the Directive where Tullow has a non-operated presence in a country limited have been made to National Governments, either directly or VAT will be paid.
through a Ministry or Department of the National Government, Stamp duty includes taxes that are placed on legal with the exception of Ghana payments in respect of production documents usually in the transfer of assets or capital.
entitlements and licence fees, which are paid to the Ghana Usually these taxes are reflected in stamp duty returns made National Oil Company.
Our total economic contribution to all to governments and are paid shortly after capital or assets stakeholders and our 2017 tax payments can be found on are transferred.
Withholding tax WHT represent tax charged on services, Production entitlements in barrels includes non-cash interest, dividends or other distributions of profits.
The royalties and state non-participating interest paid in barrels amount disclosed is equal to the WHT return submitted by of oil or gas out of Tullows working interest share of Tullow to governments with the cash payment made in the production in a licence.
The figures disclosed are produced year the charge is borne.
It should be noted the operator of a on an entitlement basis rather than a liftings basis.
It does not joint venture typically makes WHT payments in respect of the include the Governments or NOCs working interest share joint venture as a whole and, as such, where Tullow has a of production in a licence.
Production entitlements have been non-operated presence in a country limited WHT will be paid.
multiplied by the Groups 2017 average realised oil price $58.3 bbl.
PAYE and national insurance represent payroll and employer taxes paid such as PAYE and national insurance by Income taxes represent cash tax calculated on the basis of Tullow as a direct employer.
The amount disclosed is equal to profits including income or capital gains.
Income taxes are the return submitted by Tullow to governments with the cash usually reflected in corporate income tax returns.
The cash payment made in the year the charge is borne.
payment of income taxes occurs in the year in which the tax has arisen or up to one year later.
Income taxes also include Carried interests comprise payments made under a any cash tax rebates received from the government or carrying agreement or PSC PSA by Tullow for the cash revenue authority during the year.
Income taxes do not settlement of costs owed by a government or national oil include fines and penalties.
company for their equity interest in a licence.
Royalties represent cash royalties paid to governments Customs duties represent cash payments made in respect during the year for the extraction of oil or gas.
The terms of of customs excise import and export duties made during the the royalties are described within our PSCs and can vary from year including items such as railway levies.
These payments project to project within one country.
Royalties paid in kind typically arise through the import transportation of goods into have been recognised within the production entitlements a country with the cash payment made in the year the charge category.
The cash payment of royalties occurs in the year in is borne.
Training allowances comprise payments made in respect of training government or national oil company staff.
This can be in the form of mandatory contractual requirements or discretionary training provided by a company.
