Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and thirty-ninth Annual 15.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Brewery, THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 14 above and in 52 Chiswell Street, London EC1 on Monday, 23 April 2018 at 12 substitution for any existing authority, but without prejudice noon for the following purposes: to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Ordinary Resolutions: sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of ordinary resolutions: the Act either pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 14 for cash or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and accounts for the 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or transfer, year ended 31 December 2017. provided this authority shall be limited to: 2.
To approve the Directors annual report on remuneration excluding the Directors remuneration policy.
a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of equity securities: of 2.70 pence per ordinary share.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 4.
To elect Mrs Beatrice Hollond as a Director.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 5.
To re-elect Ms Sarah Arkle as a Director.
ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the 6.
To re-elect Sir Roger Bone as a Director.
rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise 7.
To re-elect Ms Francesca Ecsery as a Director.
To re-elect Mr Simon Fraser as a Director.
and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions 9.
To re-elect Mr Jeffrey Hewitt as a Director.
and make any arrangements which they consider necessary 10.
To re-elect Mr Edward Knapp as a Director.
or appropriate to deal with any treasury shares, fractional 11.
To re-elect Mr Nicholas Moakes as a Director.
entitlements or securities represented by depositary receipts, 12.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company.
record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or 13.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration under the laws of, any territory or the requirements of any of the auditors.
regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: and 14.
Authority to allot shares THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, but without b the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a of this prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date Resolution 15 of equity securities up to an aggregate hereof, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and nominal amount of 6,700,000, and shall expire at the unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section 551 of conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to exercise all the powers Company after the passing of this resolution or on 30 June of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant 2019 whichever is the earlier, unless extended by the rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in Company in a general meeting the relevant period save the Company together being relevant securities up to an that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of this aggregate nominal amount of 6,700,000 during the period authority make offers or enter into agreements which would commencing on the date of the passing of this resolution and or might require equity securities to be allotted or transferred expiring at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the after the expiry of the relevant period and notwithstanding Company in 2019 or 30 June 2019 whichever is earlier, unless such expiry the Directors may allot or transfer equity previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in a securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
general meeting the relevant period save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of this authority, make offers 16.
Share buyback authority or enter into agreements which would or might require relevant THAT, in substitution for any existing authority, but without securities to be allotted after the expiry of the relevant period prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot relevant date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make Special Resolutions: market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as special resolutions: 84 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION ILL ROW T E ALDERSGATE E R T S L BUNH WHITECROSS STREET GOSWE A I C LL ROAD T E E R R T S X E E S E M L M D O C D I M HOUNDSDITCH GREAT EASTERN STREET ELDON STREET WALL SUN STREET T WORSHIP STREET E E R T S L LOND N O L OLD STREET BARBICAN MOORGATE ALDGATE EAST NOTICE OF MEETING Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Notes: Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time determine, provided that: 1.
A member is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of the members rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
A proxy a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting for to be purchased shall be 81,270,000 or, if less, 14.99% of the members vote to be counted.
If a member appoints more than one the number of ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury proxy to attend the meeting, each proxy must be appointed to exercise shares as at the date of the passing of this resolution: the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be 2.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p: as to how the votes are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the Companys c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding paid for an ordinary share is the higher of: such number of voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five Authority FCA.
As a result, any person holding 3% or more of the business days immediately preceding the date on which voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased, and proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure Guidance independent trade for an ordinary share and the highest and Transparency Rules need not make a separate notification to the current independent bid for an ordinary share on the Company and the FCA.
trading venues where the purchase is carried out: 3.
Any such person holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy of the next annual general meeting of the Company after will need to ensure that both he and such person complies with their passing of this resolution or on 30 June 2019, whichever is respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure Guidance and earlier, unless such authority is varied, revoked or renewed Transparency Rules.
prior to such time by the Company in general meeting by special resolution: and 4.
A Form of Proxy is provided with this notice for members.
If a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy and so requires additional proxy e the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of such forms, the member should contact Computershare Investor Services authority enter into a contract or contracts to purchase PLC on 0800 923 1506.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy and any power of ordinary shares under such authority which will or may be attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration copy of such authority must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at the Companys registrars, Computershare of such authority and the Company may purchase ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts as if the Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, authority conferred hereby had not expired.
not less than 48 hours before the time of the holding of the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will 17.
That the draft articles of association of the Company, produced not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting should to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be adopted as the articles of association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the Companys existing articles of association.
By Order of the Board Registered office: For and on behalf of Exchange House THE BREWERY F&C Investment Primrose Street LIVERPOOL Business Limited London EC2A 2NY STREET Secretary 6 March 2018 Registered number: 12901 Report and Accounts 2017 | 85 E W S I H C OLD STREET OLD STREET B D A L P P O R O L D O S T R BISHOPSGATE E A E T D S MOOR T R E E T HIGH STREET T SHOREDI CH GATE CITY ROAD they wish to do so.
Amended instructions must also be received by the at 11 p. m. on 19 April 2018 the Specified Time or, if the meeting Companys registrars by the deadline for receipt of Forms of Proxy.
is adjourned to a time more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, by 11 p. m. on the day which is two days prior to the time of the adjourned 5.
Alternatively, members may register the appointment of a proxy for the meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
If the meeting meeting electronically, by accessing the website eproxyappointment.
com where full instructions for the procedure are given.
The Control Number, is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, Shareholder Reference and PIN as printed on the Form of Proxy will be that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement required in order to use the electronic proxy appointment system.
This of members to attend and vote and for the purposes of determining the website is operated by Computershare Investor Services PLC.
The proxy number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
Changes to appointment and any power of attorney or other authority under which the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in the proxy appointment is made must be received by Computershare determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Investor Services PLC not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise 10.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
If you want to appoint more and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the than one proxy electronically please contact Computershare Investor CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored Services PLC on 0800 923 1506. members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service 6.
Investors holding shares in the Company through the F&C Private provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Investor, or Childrens Investment Plans, the F&C Child Trust Fund, Junior ISA or in an F&C Individual Savings Account should ensure that forms 11.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST of direction are returned to Computershare Investor Services PLC not service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy later than 12 noon on 16 April 2018.
Alternatively, voting directions can Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with be submitted electronically at eproxyappointment.
com by entering the Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the Control Number, Shareholder Reference Number and PIN as printed on information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST the form of direction.
Voting directions must be submitted electronically Manual available via euroclear.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment no later than 12 noon on 16 April 2018. to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order 7.
Any person receiving a copy of this notice as a person nominated by a to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies number 3RA50 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments Act 2006 a Nominated Person should note that the provisions in specified in notes 4 and 5 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt notes 1, 4 and 5 above concerning the appointment of a proxy or proxies will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to attend the meeting in place of a member do not apply to a Nominated to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers Person as only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy.
However, agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between the prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to Nominated Person and the member by whom he or she was nominated proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the appointee through other means.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under such an 12.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights at the meeting.
Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will 8.
Nominated Persons should also remember that their main point of therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
contact in terms of their investment in the Company remains the member It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy information rights or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored perhaps, the custodian or broker who administers the investment on their member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that behalf.
Nominated Persons should continue to contact that member, his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as custodian or broker and not the Company regarding any changes or shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST queries relating to the Nominated Persons personal details and interest in the Company including any administrative matter.
The only exception members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from a provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Nominated Person.
Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings euroclear.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 1 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended and for the purposes of section 360B of the 13.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company has specified that only circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated those members registered on the register of members of the Company Securities Regulations 2001 as amended.
86 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION NOTICE OF MEETING 14.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate 21.
Copies of the letters of appointment between the Company and its representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as Directors: a copy of the articles of association of the Company Including a member provided that, if it is appointing more than one corporate the amended form of the articles of association that are proposed to be representative, it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
adopted by resolution 17 : the register of Directors holdings: and a deed poll relating to Directors indemnities will be available for inspection at 15.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company weekday Saturdays, Sundays and Bank Holidays excluded until the date to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: of the meeting and also on the date and at the place of the meeting from a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the meeting to the conclusion and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: thereof.
or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company 22.
No Director has a service agreement with the Company.
ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the 23.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members meeting the threshold Act.
requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: a to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the 16.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 intended to be moved at the meeting, and or of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a b to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the the business.
statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been in the business unless: required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the 17.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
companys constitution or otherwise, The Company must cause to be answered any question relating to the b it is defamatory of any person or business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the c it is frivolous or vexatious.
However, members should note that no answer need be given in Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must the following circumstances: identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be a if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation of the meeting included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons or would involve a disclosure of confidential information: making it, must be received by the Company not later than 9 March b if the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an 2018, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case answer to a question: or of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by c if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
of the meeting that the question be answered.
As at 1 March 2018, being the last practicable date prior to the printing of this notice, the Companys issued capital less the shares held in Treasury consisted of 542,180,712 ordinary shares of 25 pence each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 1 March 2018 are 542,180,712.
This notice, together with information about the total number of shares in the Company in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting as at 1 March 2018 being the last practicable date prior to the printing of this notice and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice, will be available at foreignandcolonial.
Any electronic address provided either in this notice or in any related documents including the Form of Proxy may not be used to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
