Alternative Performance Measures The Company uses the following Alternative Performance Measures APMs : Discount Premium the share price of an Investment Trust is derived from buyers and sellers trading their shares on the stock market.
This price is not identical to NAV per share of the underlying assets less liabilities of the Company.
If the share price is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
This usually indicates that there are more sellers of shares than buyers.
Shares trading at a price above NAV per share are said to be at a premium, in which case there tend to be more buyers than sellers.
The Boards discount policy is set out on page 12.
Net Asset Value NAV with Debt at Market Value the Companys debt debenture and loans is valued in the Balance Sheet on page 58 at amortised cost, which is materially equivalent to the repayment value of the debt on the assumption that it is held to maturity.
This is often referred to as Debt at Par.
The current replacement or market value of the debt, which assumes it is repaid and renegotiated under current market conditions, is often referred to as the Debt at Market Value or Debt at Fair value.
This Market Value is spelt out in notes 15 and 16 pages 71 and 72 on the accounts.
The difference between market and par values of the debt is subtracted from or added to the Balance Sheet NAV on page 58 to derive the NAV with debt at market value.
The NAV with debt at market value at 31 December 2017 was 3,663,936,000 675.78p per share and the NAV with debt at par was 3,668,023,000 676.53p per share.
Ongoing Charges all operating costs expected to be regularly incurred and that are payable by the Company or suffered within underlying investee funds including Private Equity funds, expressed as a proportion of the average daily net asset values of the Company valued in accordance with accounting policies over the reporting year.
The costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives are excluded, as are interest costs, taxation, non-recurring costs and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Total Costs calculated in accordance with EU rules, comprise all operating costs actually incurred by the Company in the period, including transaction costs and interest on borrowings, together with costs suffered in the period within underlying investee funds and estimated implicit costs of dealing 1, expressed as a proportion of the average daily NAV of the Company over the period.
Taxation expense and the costs of buying back or issuing of ordinary shares are excluded from the calculation.
The principal reasons for the excess of Total costs over Ongoing charges are as follows: Finance costs on loans, debenture and overdrafts 7.4m or 0.20% of net assets Transaction charges and implicit dealing costs 2.6m or 0.07% of average net assets Total costs for years prior to 2017 have not been calculated.
Total Expense Ratio TER an alternative measure of expenses to Ongoing Charges.
It comprises all operating costs incurred in the reporting period by the Company see note 4 page 65 and note 5 page 66 on the accounts, calculated as a percentage of the average daily net asset values valued in accordance with accounting policies in that year see Ten Year Record.
Operating costs exclude costs suffered within investee funds, costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives, interest costs, taxation and the costs of buying back or issuing ordinary shares.
Total Return the return to shareholders calculated on a per share basis by adding dividends paid in the period to the increase or decrease in the Share Price or NAV with debt at market value in the period.
The dividends are assumed to have been re-invested in the form of shares or net assets, respectively, on the date on which the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Dividends paid and payable are set out in note 9 on page 68.
1 the cost differential between the mid-market price of the asset before the order is placed in the market and the price at which the deal is struck as defined by PRIIPs regulations issued by the European Union see Glossary of Terms, PRIIPs on page 93.
90 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
