Information for Shareholders Performance information taxed at rates of 7.5% basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% higher rate Information on the Companys performance is provided in the half-yearly taxpayers or 38.1% additional rate taxpayers.
The allowance for and final reports which are sent to shareholders in August and March the year ended 5 April 2018 was 5,000. respectively.
More up-to-date performance information, including the full list of investments in the portfolio as at the most recent month end, Association of Investment Companies AIC is available on the Internet at foreignandcolonial.
com under Investor Foreign & Colonial is a member of the AIC, which publishes a Information.
com also provides a monthly monthly statistical information service in respect of member update on the Companys geographic spread and largest holdings, companies.
The publication also has details of ISA and other along with comments from the Fund Manager.
For further details, please contact the AIC on 020 7282 5555, or visit the website: www.
Key Information Document The Key Information Document relating to the Companys shares can Unclaimed dividends be found on its website at foreignandcolonial.
This document has The Company has engaged the services of Georgeson a subsidiary been produced in accordance with the EUs PRIIPs Regulations.
of Computershare to locate shareholders, or their beneficiaries, who have lost track of or are unaware of their investments.
The service Net asset value and share price is provided at no cost to the Company: Georgeson retain 10% of The Companys net asset value is released daily, on the working day unclaimed dividends from the shareholder on completion of each following the calculation date, to the London and New Zealand Stock successful claim.
Alternatively, shareholders are given the option of Exchanges.
The current share price of Foreign & Colonial is shown in contacting the Registrar themselves, thereby incurring no charges.
the investment trust section of the stock market page in most leading newspapers, usually under For & Col. Investors in New Zealand can Common reporting standards obtain share prices from leading newspapers in that country.
Tax legislation under The OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Common Reporting Standard UK capital gains tax CGT for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information The An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital gains.
UK Common Reporting Standard was introduced in 2016.
The resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to 11,300 in legislation requires investment trust companies to provide personal the tax year ended 5 April 2018 without incurring any tax liability.
information to HMRC on certain investors who purchase shares in investment trusts.
The Company has to provide information annually A rate of CGT of 10% will apply where taxable income and gains to the local tax authority on the tax residencies of a number of nondo not exceed the income tax higher rate threshold 33,500 in UK based certificated shareholders, and corporate entities.
A higher rate of 20% will apply to those whose income and gains exceed this figure.
All new shareholders, excluding those whose shares are held in CREST, who are entered onto the share register are sent a Income tax certification form for the purposes of collecting this information.
The final dividend of 2.7 pence per share is payable on 1 May 2018.
From 6 April 2018 the annual tax-free allowance to UK residents For further information, please see HMRCs Quick Guide: on dividend income received in their entire share portfolios will be Automatic Exchange of Information information for account 2,000. Dividend income received in excess of this amount will be holders www.
Warning to Shareholders Beware of Share Fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
If you receive unsolicited investment advice or requests: Check the Financial Services Register from fca.
uk to see if the person or firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA Call the Financial Conduct Authority FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at fca.
uk scams Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme Think about getting independent financial and professional advice If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA by using the share fraud reporting form at fca.
uk scams where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Registered in England and Wales with Company Registration No.
12901 88 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
