Notes on Notes on the Accounts the Accounts 1.
General information Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is an Investment Company, incorporated in the United Kingdom with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company Registration number is 12901, and the Registered office is Exchange House, Primrose Street, London, EC2A 2NY, England.
The Company has conducted its affairs so as to qualify as an Investment Trust under the provisions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Approval of the Company under Section 1158 has been received.
The Company intends to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 1158.
Such approval exempts the Company from UK Corporation Tax on gains realised in the relevant year on its portfolio of fixed asset investments and derivatives.
There have been no significant changes to the Companys accounting policies during the year ended 31 December 2017, as set out in note 2 below.
Significant accounting policies a Going concern As referred to in note 24 and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors believe that it is appropriate for the accounts to be prepared on a going concern basis.
b Basis of accounting The accounts of the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments and derivatives at fair value, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Financial Reporting Standard FRS 102 applicable in the United Kingdom and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in November 2014 and updated in January 2017.
The functional and presentational currency of the Company is pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
The Company had no operating subsidiaries at any time during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
Consequently, consolidated accounts have not been prepared.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Companys activities comprise a single operating segment, which is investing internationally in equities to secure long-term growth in income and capital.
In accordance with the SORP, the Income Statement has been analysed between a Revenue Account dealing with items of a revenue nature and a Capital Account relating to items of a capital nature.
Revenue returns include, but are not limited to, dividend income and operating expenses and tax insofar as the expenses and tax are not allocated to capital, as described in notes 2 c vii and 2 c viii.
Net revenue returns are allocated via the revenue account to the Revenue Reserve, out of which interim and final dividend payments are made.
The amounts paid by way of dividend are shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Capital returns include, but are not limited to, realised and unrealised profits and losses on fixed asset investments and derivatives and currency profits and losses on cash and borrowings.
The Company may distribute net capital returns by way of dividend.
It is the Boards current stated intention to continue paying dividends to equity shareholders out of the Revenue Reserve.
60 60 | | For Foreign & Colonial Investment T eign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC rust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T 2.
Significant accounting policies continued c Principal accounting policies The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the year ending 31 December 2017 and the prior year.
i Financial instruments Financial instruments include fixed asset investments, derivative assets and liabilities, long-term debt instruments, cash and short-term deposits, debtors and creditors.
FRS102 recognises a hierarchy of fair value measurements, for financial instruments measured at fair value in the Balance Sheet, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs Level 3.
The classification of financial instruments depends on the lowest significant applicable input, as follows: Level 1 Unadjusted, fully accessible and current quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Included within this category are investments listed on any recognised stock exchange or quoted on the AIM Market in the UK.
Level 2 Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities or other directly or indirectly observable inputs which exist for the duration of the period of investment.
Examples of such instruments would be forward exchange contracts and certain other derivative instruments.
Level 3 Where no active market exists and recent transactions for identical instruments do not provide a good estimate of fair value, the value is the Directors best estimate, based on advice from relevant knowledgeable experts, use of recognised valuation techniques and on assumptions as to what inputs other market participants would apply in pricing the same or similar instrument.
Included within this category are investments in private companies or securities, whether invested in directly or through pooled Private Equity vehicles, see Notes 10 and 25 d for further information.
ii Fixed asset investments As an investment trust, the Company measures its fixed asset investments at fair value through profit or loss and treats all transactions on the realisation and revaluation of investments held as fixed assets, as transactions on the Capital Account.
Purchases are recognised on the relevant trade date, less expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of the investments.
Sales are also recognised on the trade date, after deducting expenses incidental to the sales.
Quoted investments are valued at bid value at the close of business on the relevant date on the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments which are not quoted or which are not frequently traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investment instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated, investments are carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in Private Equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying unlisted investments as supplied by the investment advisers or managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Distributions from Private Equity funds are recognised when the right to distributions is established.
iii Derivative instruments Derivatives including forward exchange contracts, futures and options are accounted for as financial assets or liabilities.
Where it can be demonstrated that the derivative is connected to the maintenance of the Companys investments, the change in fair value is recognised as capital and shown in the Capital column of the Income Statement.
Where an option is written in the expectation that it will not be exercised, or that any losses on exercise will be outweighed by the value of the premiums received, the premiums are recognised in the Revenue column of the Income Statement.
The value of the premium is usually the options initial fair value and is recognised evenly over the life of the option.
Subsequent changes to fair value are adjusted in the Capital column of the Income Statement such that the total amounts recognised within Revenue and Capital represent the change in fair value of the option.
Report and Accounts Report and Accounts Report and Accounts 2017 2017 2017 ||| 61 61 61 2.
Significant accounting policies continued iv Debt instruments The Companys debt instruments include the 4.25% perpetual debenture stock included in the Balance Sheet at proceeds received, net of issue costs, and bank borrowings and overdrafts, initially measured at the amount of cash received less direct issue costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
No debt instruments held during the year required hierarchical classification.
The fair market value of the bank borrowings and perpetual debenture stock are set out in notes 13, 15 and 16 on the accounts respectively.
Finance charges, including interest, are accrued using the effective interest rate method.
See 2 c vii below for allocation of finance charges within the Income Statement.
v Foreign currency Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are expressed in Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investment securities, dividend income, interest income and expenses are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the respective dates of such transactions.
Exchange profits and losses on fixed assets investments are included within the changes in fair value in the Capital Account.
Exchange profits and losses on other currency balances are separately credited or charged to the Capital Account except where they relate to revenue items.
vi Income Income from equity shares is brought into the Revenue Account except where, in the opinion of the Directors, its nature indicates it should be recognised within the Capital Account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
Dividends are accounted for on the basis of income actually receivable, without adjustment for any tax credit attaching to the dividends.
Dividends from overseas companies are shown gross of withholding tax.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash scrip dividends, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in the Capital Account.
Rebates on investee funds management fees are accounted for on a receipts basis.
vii Expenses, including finance charges Expenses inclusive of associated value added tax VAT are charged to the Revenue Account of the Income Statement, except as noted below: expenses incidental to the acquisition or disposal of fixed assets investments are charged to Capital Reserves via the Capital Account: costs of professional advice relating to the capital structure of the Company are charged to Capital Reserves see note 2 c xi : 100% of management fees, invoiced to the Company in respect of certain Private Equity investments, are allocated to Capital Reserves, via the Capital Account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from those investments: 75% of other management fees and finance costs both net of applicable tax relief are allocated to Capital Reserves via the Capital Account, in accordance with the Boards long-term expected split of returns from the investment portfolio excluding Private Equity investments of the Company.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
viii Taxation Taxation currently payable is calculated using tax rules and rates in force at the year end, based on taxable profit for the period which differs from the net return before tax.
Note 7 b sets out those items which are not subject to UK Corporation Tax.
Deferred tax is provided for in accordance with FRS102 on all timing differences that have been enacted by the Balance Sheet date and are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate the tax relief on expenses charged to capital is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses charged through the Revenue Account, then no tax relief is transferred to the Capital Account.
62 62 || For Foreign & Colonial Investment T eign & Colonial Investment T rust PLC rust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL REPORT 2.
Significant accounting policies continued ix Dividends payable Dividends are included in the financial statements on the date on which they are declared or, in the case of final dividends, when they are approved by shareholders.
x Capital Redemption Reserve This is a non-distributable reserve.
The nominal value of ordinary share capital repurchased for cancellation is transferred out of Share Capital and into the Capital Redemption Reserve, on a trade date basis.
Where shares are repurchased into treasury, the transfer of nominal value to the Capital Redemption Reserve is made if and when the shares are cancelled.
xi Capital Reserves These are distributable reserves which may be utilised for the repurchase of share capital and for distributions to shareholders by way of dividend.
Capital reserve arising on investments sold The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on the disposal of fixed asset investments and derivatives: realised exchange differences of a capital nature: costs of professional advice, including related irrecoverable VAT, relating to the capital structure of the Company: other capital charges and credits charged or credited to this account in accordance with the above policies: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital into treasury or for cancellation, including related stamp duty, are recognised on a trade date basis.
Capital reserve arising on investments held The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of fixed asset investments and derivatives held at the year end: and unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature xii Use of judgements, estimates and assumptions The presentation of the financial statements in accordance with accounting standards requires the Board to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on perceived risks, historical experience, expectations of plausible future events and other factors.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The areas requiring the most significant judgement and estimation in the preparation of the financial statements are: accounting for the value of unquoted investments: recognising and classifying unusual or special dividends received as either revenue or capital in nature: and setting the level of dividends paid and proposed in satisfaction of both the Companys long-term objective and its obligations to adhere to Investment Trust status rules under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The policy for valuation of unquoted securities is set out in note 2 c ii and further information on Board procedures is contained in the Report of the Audit Committee and note 25 d. The fair value of unquoted Level 3 investments, as disclosed in note 10 on the accounts, represented 5.8% of total investments at 31 December 2017.
Under foreseeable market conditions the collective value of such investments may rise or fall in the short term by more than 25%, in the opinion of the Directors.
A fall of 25% in the value of the unlisted Level 3 portfolio at the year-end would equate to 57m or 1.5% of net assets and a similar percentage rise should be construed accordingly.
Dividends received which appear to be unusual in size or circumstance are assessed on a case-by-case basis, based on interpretation of the investee companies relevant statements, to determine their allocation in accordance with the SORP to either the Revenue Account or Capital Account.
Dividends which have clearly arisen out of the investee companys reconstruction or reorganisation are usually considered to be capital in nature and allocated to Capital Account.
Investee company dividends which appear to be paid in excess of current year profits will still be considered as revenue in nature unless evidence suggests otherwise.
The value of dividends received in the year treated as capital in nature, as disclosed in note 19 on the accounts, was not material in relation to capital reserves or the revenue account.
The value of special dividends receivable in any period cannot be foreseen as such dividends are declared and paid by investee companies and funds without prior reference to the Company.
Report and Accounts Report and Accounts 2017 2017 || 63 63
