184 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL CALENDAR Annual General Meeting 12 April 2018 First quarter Trading Report 3 May 2018 Payment of 2017 final dividend 9 May 2018 1 Half year results announced 26 July 2018 Third quarter Trading Report 1 November 2018 Payment of 2018 interim dividend November 2018 1 Full year results announced February 2019 Annual Report available February March 2019 Annual General Meeting April 2019 1 Dividend declaration dates.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on Thursday, 12 April 2018 at 2pm at No.
 have been sent either a Notice of Annual General Meeting or notification of availability of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Corporate headquarters and registered office The corporate headquarters is in the UK and the registered office address is: Smith & Nephew plc, 15 Adam Street, London WC2N 6LA, UK.
Registered in England and Wales No.
185 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS Registrar All general enquiries concerning shareholdings, dividends, changesto shareholders personal details and the AGM should beaddressedto: Computershare Investor Services plc, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ.
co. uk L ines are open from 8:30am to 5:30pm Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS We make quarterly financial announcements, which are made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on theGroups website www.
Copies of recent Annual Reports, press releases, institutional presentations and audiowebcasts are also available onthe website.
We send paper copies of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and Annual Report only to those shareholders and ADS holders who have elected to receive shareholder documentation bypost.
Electronic copies of the Annual Report and Notice of AnnualGeneral Meeting are available on the Groups website at www.
Both ordinary shareholders and ADS holders can request paper copies of the Annual Report, which the Company provides free of charge.
The Company will continue to send to ordinary shareholders by post the Form of Proxy notifying them of the availability of the Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting on the Groups website.
If you elect to receive the Annual Report andNotice of Annual General Meeting electronically you are informed bye-mail of the documents availability on the Groups website.
ADSholders receive the Form of Proxy by post, but will not receive apaper copy of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS The Company maintains regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, together with results presentations.
To ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major investors, the Executive Directors review significant issues raised by investors with the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are sent copies of analysts and brokers briefings.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Directors at the Annual General Meeting and the Company regularly responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
UK CAPITAL GAINS TAX For the purposes of UK capital gains tax, the price of the Companys ordinary shares on 31 March 1982 was 35.04p.
SMITH & NEPHEW SHARE PRICE The Companys ordinary shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange under thesymbol SN.
The Companys share price is available on theSmith&Nephew website www.
com where the live financial data isupdated with a 15-minute delay.
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARES ADSS AND AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS ADRS In the USA, the Companys ordinary shares are traded in the form ofADSs, evidenced by ADRs, on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol SNN.
Each American Depositary Share represents two ordinary shares.
Deutsche Bank is the authorised depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
ADS ENQUIRIES All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment of dividends should be addressed to: Deutsche Bank Shareholder Services American Stock Transfer and Trust Company Operations Centre6201 15th Avenue Brooklyn, New York NY 11219 Tel: 1 866 249 2593 toll free E-mail: db@astfinancial.
com The Deutsche Bank Global Direct Investor Services Program is available for US residents, enabling investment directly in ADSs with reduced brokerage commissions and service costs.
For further information on Global Direct contact Deutsche Bank Shareholder Services as above or visit www.
186 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued SMITH & NEPHEW ADS PRICE The Companys ADS price can be obtained from the official NewYorkStock Exchange website at www.
com and the Smith & Nephew website www.
com where the live financial data is updated with a15-minute delay, and is quoted daily in theWall Street Journal.
ADS PAYMENT INFORMATION The Company hereby discloses ADS payment information for the year ended 31 December 2017 in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules 12.
D. 4 relating to Form 20-F filings by foreign private issuers.
The depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them.
The depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors, including payment of dividends by the Company by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property to pay the fees.
The depositary may collect its annual fee for depositary services by deductions from cash distributions or by directly billing investors or by charging the book-entry system accounts of participants acting for them.
The depositary may generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fee for those services are paid.
Persons depositing or withdrawing shares must pay For $5.00 or less per 100 ADSs or portion of 100 ADSs Issuance of ADSs, including issuances resulting from a distribution $0.05 or less per ADS of shares or rights or other property Cancellation of ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal, including if the deposit agreement terminates Any cash distribution to ADS registered holders, including payment of dividend $0.05 or less per ADS per calendar year Depositary services Registration or transfer fees Transfer and registration of shares on our share register to or from the name of the depositary or its agent when shares are deposited or withdrawn Taxes and other governmental charges the depositary or the As necessary custodian have to pay on any ADS or share underlying an ADS, for example, stock transfer taxes, stamp duty or withholding taxes Any charges incurred by the depositary or its agents for servicing As necessary the deposited securities During 2017, a fee of one US cent per ADS was collected on the 2016 final dividend paid in May and a fee of one US cent per ADS was collected on the 2017 interim dividend paid in October.
In the period 1 January 2017 to 16 February 2018, the total program payments made by Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas were $599,992.
DIVIDEND HISTORY Smith & Nephew has paid dividends on its ordinary shares in every year since 1937.
Following the capital restructuring and dividend reduction in 2000, the Group adopted a policy of increasing its dividend cover the ratio of EPSA, as set out in the Selected financial data, toordinary dividends declared for the year.
This was intended to increase the financing capability of the Group for acquisitions and other investments.
From 2000 to 2004, the dividend increased in line with inflation and, in 2004, dividend cover stood at 4.1 times.
Having achieved this level of dividend cover the Board changed its policy, from that of increasing dividends in line with inflation, to that of increasing dividends for 2005 and after by 10%.
Following the redenomination of the Companys share capital into US Dollars, the Board re-affirmed its policy of increasing the dividend by 10% a year in US Dollar terms.
On 2 August 2012, the Board announced its intention to pursue a progressive dividend policy, with the aim of increasing the US Dollar value of ordinary dividends over time broadly based on the Groups underlying growth in earnings, while taking into account capital requirements and cash flows.
At the time of the full year results, the Board reviews the appropriate level of total annual dividend each year.
The Board intendsthat the interim dividend will be set by a formula and will be equivalent to 40% of the total dividend for the previous year.
Dividends will continue to be declared in US Dollars with an equivalent amount in Sterling payable to those shareholders whose registered address is inthe UK, or who have validly elected to receive Sterling dividends.
An interim dividend in respect of each fiscal year is normally declared in July or August and paid in November.
A final dividend will be recommended by the Board of Directors and paid subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Future dividends of Smith & Nephew will be dependent upon: future earnings: the future financial condition of the Group: the Boards dividend policy: and the additional factors that might affect the business of the Group set out in Special note regarding forward-looking statements and Risk Factors.
187 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued DIVIDENDS PER SHARE The table below sets out the dividends per ordinary share in the last five years.
From 6 April 2016 dividends below 5,000 per tax year became tax free and dividends above 5,000 per tax year became subject to personal income tax at the rate of 7.5% for basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% for additional rate taxpayers.
Aself-assessment form will therefore be required if your dividend income exceeds 5,000 per tax year.
This will apply to both cash and dividend reinvestment plan DRIP dividends, although dividends paid on shares held within pensions and ISAs will be unaffected, remaining tax free.
Please note, with effect from 6 April 2018, the tax free allowance for dividend income will reduce from 5,000 to 2,000.
This will impact the 2017 final dividend, which will be payable on 9 May 2018, subject to shareholder approval.
Dividends shown in the table above, prior to 6 April 2016, include the associated UK tax credit of 10%, but exclude the deduction of withholding taxes.
Since the second interim dividend for 2005, all dividends have been declared in US cents per ordinary share.
In respect of the proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 22.7 US cents per ordinary share, the record date will be 6 April 2018 and the payment date will be 9 May 2018.
The Sterling equivalent per ordinary share will be set following the record date.
Shareholders may elect to receive their dividend in either Sterling or US Dollars and the last day for election will be 20 April 2018.
The ordinary shares will trade exdividend on boththe London and New York Stock Exchanges from 5 April 2018.
The proposed final dividend of 22.7 US cents per ordinary share, which together with the interim dividend of 12.3 US cents, makes a total for 2017 of 35.00 US cents.
188 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued SHARE PRICES The table below sets out, for the periods indicated, the highest and lowest middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the UK Listing Authority and the highest and lowest sales prices of its ADSs as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape.
SHARE CAPITAL The principal trading market for the ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange.
The ordinary shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange on 16 November 1999, trading in the form of ADSs evidenced by ADRs.
Each ADS represents two ordinary shares from 14 October 2014, before which time one ADS represented five ordinary shares.
The ADS facility is sponsored by Deutsche Bank acting as depositary.
All the ordinary shares, including those held by Directors and Executive Officers, rank pari passu with each other.
On 23 January 2006, the ordinary 2 shares of 12 9p were redenominated as ordinary shares of US 20 cents following approval by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting in December 2005.
The new US Dollar ordinary shares carry the same rights as the previous ordinary shares.
The share price continues to be quoted in Sterling.
In 2006, the Company issued 50,000 of shares in Sterling in order to comply with English law.
These were issued as deferred shares, which are not listed on any stock exchange.
They have extremely limited rights and therefore effectively have no value.
These shares were allotted to the Chief Executive Officer, although the Board reserves the right to transfer them to another member of the Board should it so wish.
189 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued SHARE CAPITAL continued Shareholdings As at 16 February 2018, to the knowledge of the Group, there were 14,877 registered holders of ordinary shares, of whom 96 had registered addresses in the USA and held a total of 207,045 ordinary shares 0.023% of the total issued.
Because certain ordinary shares are registered in the names of nominees, the number of shareholders with registered addresses in the USA is not representative of the number of beneficial owners of ordinary shares resident in the USA.
As at 16 February 2018, 33,740,645 ADSs equivalent to 67,481,290 ordinary shares or approximately 7.7% of the total ordinary shares in issue, were outstanding and were held by 87 registered ADS holders.
Major shareholders As far as is known to Smith & Nephew, the Group is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any Government and the Group has not entered into arrangements, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the Group.
As at 16 February 2018, no persons are known to Smith & Nephew to have any interest as defined in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA in 3% or more of the ordinary shares, other than as shown below.
The following tables show changes over the last three years in the percentage and numbers of the issued share capital owned by shareholders holding 3% or more of ordinary shares, as notified to the Company under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: As at 31 December 16 February 2018 2017 2016 2015 % % % % BlackRock, Inc. 5.2 5.2 5.2 5.2 As at 31 December 16 February 2018 2017 2016 2015 000 000 000 000 BlackRock, Inc. 46,427 46,427 46,427 46,427 The Company is not aware of any person who has a significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the Company, and is not aware of any persons holding securities which may control the Company.
There are no securities in issue which have special rights as to the control of the Company.
Purchase of ordinary shares on behalf of the Company At the AGM, the Company will be seeking a renewal of its current permission from shareholders to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
In order to avoid shareholder dilution, shares allotted to employees through employee share schemes are bought back on a quarterly basis and subsequently cancelled by the Company.
From 1 January 2017 to 16 February 2018, in the months listed below, the Company has purchased 2,907,586 ordinary shares at a cost of $50,112,844.04.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders There are no UK governmental laws, decrees or regulations that restrict the export or import of capital or that affect the payment of dividends, interest or other payments to non-resident holders of Smith & Nephews securities, except for certain restrictions imposed from time to time by Her Majestys Treasury of the United Kingdom pursuant to legislation, such as the United Nations Act 1946 and the Emergency Laws Act 1964, against the Government or residents of certain countries.
There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under the Articles of Association of Smith & Nephew, restricting the right of non-UK residents to hold or to exercise voting rights in respect of ordinary shares, except that where any overseas shareholder has not provided to the Company a UK address for the service of notices, the Company is under no obligation to send any notice or other document to an overseas address.
It is, however, the current practice of the Company to send every notice or other document to all shareholders regardless of the country recorded in the register of members, with the exception of details of the Companys dividend reinvestment plan, which are not sent to shareholders with recorded addresses in the USA and Canada.
190 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued TAXATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS The comments below are of a general and summary nature and are based on the Groups understanding of certain aspects of current UK and US federal income tax law and practice relevant to the ADSs and ordinary shares not in ADS form.
The comments address the material US and UK tax consequences generally applicable to a person who is the beneficial owner of ADSs or ordinary shares and who, for US federal income tax purposes, is a citizen or resident of the USA, a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation created or organised in or under the laws of the USA or any State therein or the District of Columbia, or an estate or trust the income of which is included in gross income for US federal income tax purposes regardless of its source each a US Holder.
The comments set out below do not purport to address all tax consequences of the ownership of ADSs or ordinary shares that may be material to a particular holder and in particular do not deal with the position of shareholders who directly or indirectly own 10% or more of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
This discussion does not apply to i persons whose holding of ADSs or ordinary shares is effectively connected with or pertains to either a permanent establishment in the UK through which a US Holder carries on a business in the UK or a fixed base from which a US Holder performs independent personal services in the UK, or ii persons whose registered address is inside the UK.
This discussion does not apply to certain investors subject to special rules, such as certain financial institutions, taxexempt entities, insurance companies, broker-dealers and traders in securities that elect to use the mark-to-market method of tax accounting, partnerships or other entities treated as partnerships for US federal income tax purposes, US Holders holding ADSs or ordinary shares as part of a hedging, conversion or other integrated transaction or US Holders whose functional currency for US federal income tax purposes is other than the US Dollar.
In addition, the comments below do not address the potential application of the provisions of the United States Internal Revenue Code known as the Medicare Contribution Tax, any alternative minimum tax consequences, any US federal tax other than income tax or any US state, local or non-US other than UK taxes.
The summary deals only with US Holders who hold ADSs or ordinary shares as capital assets for tax purposes.
The summary is based on current UK and US law and practice which is subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect.
US Holders are recommended to consult their own tax advisers as to the particular tax consequences to them of the ownership of ADSs or ordinary shares.
The Company believes, and this discussion assumes, that the Company was not a passive foreign investment company for its taxable year ended 31 December 2017.
This discussion is based in part on representations by the depositary and assumes that each obligation under the deposit agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
For purposes of US federal income tax law, US Holders of ADSs will generally be treated as owners of the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs.
However, the US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom depositary shares are released before shares are delivered to the depositary pre-released may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax credits by owners of depositary shares.
Such actions would also be inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced rate of tax, described below, applicable to dividends received by certain non-corporate US Holders.
Accordingly, the availability of the reduced tax rate for dividends received by certain non-corporate US Holders of ADSs could be affected by actions that may be taken by parties to whom ADSs are pre-released.
Taxation of distributions in the UK and the USA The UK does not currently impose a withholding tax on dividends paid by aUK corporation, such as the Company.
Distributions paid by the Company will generally be taxed as foreign source dividends to the extent paid out of the Companys current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Because the Company does not maintain calculations of its earnings and profits under US federal income tax principles, it is expected that distributions generally will be reported to US Holders as dividends.
Such dividends will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to corporate US Holders.
Dividends paid to certain non-corporate US Holders of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to US federal income tax at lower rates than those applicable to other types of ordinary income if certain conditions are met.
Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at these favourable rates.
Taxation of capital gains US Holders, who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK, will not generally be liable for UK capital gains tax on any capital gain realised upon the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares unless the ADSs or ordinary shares are held in connection with a trade carried on in the UK through a permanent establishment or in the case of individuals, through a branch or agency.
Furthermore, UK resident individuals who acquire ADSs or ordinary shares before becoming temporarily non-UK residents may remain subject to UK taxation of capital gains on gains realised while non-resident.
For US federal income tax purposes, gains or losses realised upon a taxable sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares by US Holders generally will be US source capital gains or losses and will be long-term capital gains or losses if the ADSs or ordinary shares were held for more than one year.
The amount of a US Holders gain or loss will be equal to the difference between the amount realised on the sale or other disposition and such holders tax basis in the ADSs, or ordinary shares, each determined in US Dollars.
191 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued TAXATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued Inheritance and estate taxes The HM Revenue & Customs imposes inheritance tax on capital transfers which occur on death, and in the seven years preceding death.
The HM Revenue & Customs considers that the US UK Double Taxation Convention on Estate and Gift Tax applies to inheritance tax.
Consequently, a US citizen who is domiciled in the USA and is not a UK national or domiciled in the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of ADSs and ordinary shares.
A UK national who is domiciled in the USA will be subject to UK inheritance tax but will be entitled to a credit for any US federal estate tax charged in respect of ADSs and ordinary shares in computing the liability to UK inheritance tax.
Special rules apply where ADSs and ordinary shares are business property of a permanent establishment of an enterprise situated in the UK.
US information reporting and backup withholding Payments of dividends on, or proceeds from the sale of, ADSs or ordinary shares that are made within the USA or through certain US-related financial intermediaries generally will be subject to US information reporting, and may be subject to backup withholding, unless a US Holder is an exempt recipient or, in the case of backup withholding, provides a correct US taxpayer identification number and certain other conditions are met.
Any backup withholding deducted may be credited against the US Holders US federal income tax liability, and, where the backup withholding exceeds the actual liability, the US Holder may obtain a refund by timely filing the appropriate refund claim with the US Internal Revenue Service.
US Holders who are individuals or certain specified entities may be required to report information relating to securities issued by a non-US person or foreign accounts through which the securities are held, subject to certain exceptions including an exception for securities held in accounts maintained by US financial institutions.
US Holders should consult their tax advisers regarding their reporting obligations with respect to the ADSs or ordinary shares.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax UK stamp duty is charged on documents and in particular instruments for the transfer of registered ownership of ordinary shares.
Transfers of ordinary shares in certificated form will generally be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of % of the consideration given for the transfer with the duty rounded up to the nearest 5.
UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT arises when there is an agreement to transfer shares in UK companies for consideration in money or moneys worth, and so an agreement to transfer ordinary shares for money or other consideration may give rise to a charge to SDRT at the rate of % rounded up to the nearest penny.
The charge of SDRT will be cancelled, and any SDRT already paid will be refunded, if within six years of the agreement an instrument of transfer is produced to HM Revenue & Customs and the appropriate stamp duty paid.
Transfers of ordinary shares into CREST an electronic transfer system are exempt from stamp duty so long as the transferee is a member of CREST who will hold the ordinary shares as a nominee for the transferor and the transfer is in a form that will ensure that the securities become held in uncertificated form within CREST.
Paperless transfers of ordinary shares within CREST for consideration in money or moneys worth are liable to SDRT rather than stamp duty.
SDRT on relevant transactions will be collected by CREST at %, and this will apply whether or not the transfer is effected in the UK and whether or not the parties to it are resident or situated in the UK.
A charge of stamp duty or SDRT at the rate of 1% of the consideration or, in some circumstances, the value of the shares concerned will arise on a transfer or issue of ordinary shares to the depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance service or their nominees or agents for the conversion into ADRs and will generally be payable by the depositary or person providing clearance service.
In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty payable by the depositary on deposits of ordinary shares will be charged by the depositary to the party to whom ADRs are delivered against such deposits.
No liability for stamp duty or SDRT will arise on any transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS or beneficial ownership of an ADS, provided that the ADS and any instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remains at all times outside the UK, and provided further that any instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK and the transfer does not relate to any matter or thing done or to be done in the UK the location of the custodian as a holder of ordinary shares not being relevant in this context.
In any other case, any transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS or beneficial ownership of an ADS could, depending on all the circumstances of the transfer, give rise to a charge to stamp duty or SDRT.
192 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The following summarises certain material rights of holders of the Companys ordinary shares under the material provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and English law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
In the following description, a shareholder is the person registered in the Companys register of members as the holder of an ordinary share.
The Company is incorporated under the name Smith & Nephew plc and is registered in England and Wales with registered number 324357.
The Companys ordinary shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
No holder of the Companys shares will be required to make additional contributions of capital in respect of the Companys shares in the future.
In accordance with English law, the Companys ordinary shares rank equally.
Directors Under the Companys Articles of Association, a Director may not vote in respect of any contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which he, or any person connected with him, has any material interest other than by virtue of his interests in securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company.
This is subject to certain exceptions relating to proposals a indemnifying him in respect of obligations incurred on behalf of the Company, b indemnifying a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the Director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities in which he will be interested as an underwriter, d concerning another body corporate in which the Director is beneficially interested in less than 1% of the issued shares of any class of shares of such a body corporate, e relating to an employee benefit in which the Director will share equally with other employees and f relating to any insurance that the Company is empowered to purchase for the benefit of Directors of the Company in respect of actions undertaken as Directors and or officers of the Company.
A Director shall not vote or be counted in any quorum present at a meeting in relation to a resolution on which he is not entitled to vote.
The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount ofallmonies borrowed after deducting cash and current asset investments by the Company and its subsidiaries shall not exceed the sum of$6,500,000,000.
Any Director who has been appointed by the Directors since the previous Annual General Meeting of shareholders, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional Director holds office only until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and then shall be eligible for re-election by the shareholders.
The other Directors retire and are eligible for re-appointment at the third Annual General Meeting after the meeting at which they were last re-appointed.
If not re-appointed, a Director retiring at a meeting shall retain office until the meeting appoints someone in his place, or if it does not do so, until the conclusion of the meeting.
The Directors are subject to removal with or without cause by the Board or the shareholders.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and English law, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against liabilities he may sustain or incur in the execution of his duties.
Rights attaching to ordinary shares Under English law, dividends are payable on the Companys ordinary shares only out of profits available for distribution, as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the UK and by the Companies Act 2006.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares are entitled to receive final dividends as may be declared by the Directors and approved by the shareholders in general meeting, rateable according to the amounts paid up on such shares, provided that the dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Companys Board of Directors may declare such interim dividends as appear to them to be justified by the Companys financial position.
If authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the Board may also direct payment of a dividend in whole or in part by the distribution of specific assets and in particular of paid up shares or debentures of the Company.
Any dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the dividend was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and will revert to the Company.
There were no material modifications to the rights of shareholders under the Articles during 2017.
Voting rights of ordinary shares Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll, which is a written vote, is duly demanded and held.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each ordinary share held by that shareholder.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: The chairman of the meeting: At least five shareholders present or by proxy entitled to vote on the resolution: Any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: or Any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote on the resolution on which there have been paid-up sums in aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
A Form of Proxy will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to demand a poll, or to join others in demanding one, as above.
193 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION continued The necessary quorum for a general meeting is two shareholders present in person or by proxy carrying the right to vote upon the business to be transacted.
Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the processing and passing of resolutions of which there are two kinds: ordinary or special resolutions: Ordinary resolutions include resolutions for the re-election of Directors, the approval of financial statements, the declaration of dividends other than interim dividends, the appointment and re-appointment of auditors or the grant of authority to allot shares.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes of those persons voting at the meetings at which there is a quorum.
Special resolutions include resolutions amending the Companys Articles of Association, dis-applying statutory pre-emption rights or changing the Companys name: modifying the rights of any class of the Companys shares at a meeting of the holders of such class or relating to certain matters concerning the Companys winding up.
A special resolution requires the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the votes of the persons voting at the meeting at which there is a quorum.
Annual General Meetings must be convened upon advance written notice of 21 days.
Other general meetings must be convened upon advance written notice of at least 14 clear days.
The days of delivery or receipt of notice are not included.
The notice must specify the nature of the business to be transacted.
Meetings are convened by the Board of Directors.
Members with 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company may requisition the Board to convene a meeting.
Variation of rights If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, with the consent in writing of holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or upon the adoption of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be two or more who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class and at any such meeting a poll may be demanded in writing by any person or their proxy who hold shares of that class.
Where a person is present by proxy or proxies, he is treated as holding only the shares in respect of which the proxies are authorised to exercise voting rights.
Rights in a winding up Except as the Companys shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, upon the Companys winding up, the balance of assets available for distribution: After the payment of all creditors including certain preferential creditors, whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal creditors: and Subject to any special rights attaching to any other class of shares: Is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
This distribution is generally to be made in US Dollars.
A liquidator may, however, upon the adoption of any extraordinary resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction required by law, divide among the shareholders the whole or any part of the Companys assets in kind.
Limitations on voting and shareholding There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Companys Articles of Association on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, other than the limitations that would generally apply to all of the Companys shareholders.
Transfers of shares The Board may refuse to register the transfer of shares held in certificated form which: Are not fully paid provided that it shall not exercise this discretion in such a way as to prevent stock market dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis : Are not duly stamped or duly certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty, lodged at the Transfer Office or at such other place as the Board may appoint and save in the case of a transfer by a person to whom no certificate was issued in respect of the shares in question accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates, and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person so to do: Are in respect of more than one class of shares: or Are in favour of more than four transferees.
Deferred shares Following the re-denomination of share capital on 23 January 2006, the ordinary shares nominal value became 20 US cents each.
There were no changes to the rights or obligations of the ordinary shares.
In order to comply with the Companies Act 2006, a new class of Sterling shares was created, deferred shares, of which 50,000 were issued and allotted in 2006 as fully paid to the Chief Executive Officer though the Board reserves the right to transfer them to another member of the Board should it so wish.
These deferred shares have no voting or dividend rights and on winding up only are entitled to repayment at nominal value only if all ordinary shareholders have received the nominal value of their shares plus an additional US$1,000 each.
Amendments The Company does not have any special rules about amendments to its Articles of Association beyond those imposed by law.
194 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued CROSS REFERENCE TO FORM 20-F This table provides a cross reference from the information included in this Annual Report to the requirements of Form 20-F. Part I Page Item 1 Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers n a Item 2 Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable n a Item 3 Key Information A Selected Financial Data 176177 B Capitalization and Indebtedness n a C Reason for the Offer and Use of Proceeds n a D Risk Factors 172175 Item 4 Information on the Company A History and Development of the Company 165171, 184 B Business Overview 247, 121124, 169175, 183 C Organizational Structure 7, 136137, 167168 D Property, Plant and equipment 131132, 171 Item 4A Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 5 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects A Operating results 67, 3639, 172175, 183 B Liquidity and Capital Resources 39, 140142, 158-159 C Research and Development, patents and licences, etc.
3, 5, 13, 125 D Trend information 1617, 38-39, 171175 E Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 171 F Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations 182 G Safe Harbor 200 Item 6 Directors, Senior Management and Employees A Directors and Senior Management 5055 B Compensation 79105 C Board Practices 5078 D Employees 2528, 126 E Share Ownership 91, 93, 162 Item 7 Major shareholders and Related Party Transactions A Major shareholders 189 Host Country shareholders 189 B Related Party Transactions 162, 171 C Interests of experts and counsel n a Item 8 Financial information A Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information 107162 Legal Proceedings 149150 Dividends 186-187 B Significant Changes None Item 9 The Offer and Listing A Offer and Listing Details 188189 B Plan of Distribution n a C Markets 188 D Selling shareholders n a E Dilution n a F Expenses of the Issue n a 195 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued CROSS REFERENCE TO FORM 20-F continued Part I Page Item 10 Additional Information A Share capital n a B Memorandum and Articles of Association 192193 C Material Contracts n a D Exchange Controls 189 E Taxation 190191 F Dividends and Paying Agents n a G Statement by Experts n a H Documents on Display 200 I Subsidiary Information 167170 Item 11 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk 143147, 171175 Item 12 Description of Securities other than Equity Securities A Debt securities n a B Warrants and rights n a C Other securities n a D American Depositary shares 185186 Part II Item 13 Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies None Item 14 Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds None Item 15 Controls and Procedures 7178 Item 16 Reserved n a A Audit Committee Financial Expert 71 B Code of Ethics 78 C Principal Accountant Fees and Services 7576, 126 D Exemptions from the Listing Standards for Audit Committees n a E Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers 157, 189 F Change in Registrants Certifying Accountant n a G Corporate Governance 56 H Mine Safety Disclosure n a Part III Item 17 Financial Statements n a Item 18 Financial Statements 107162 Item 19 Exhibits 196 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued GLOSSARY OF TERMS Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the meanings shown below: Term Meaning ACL The anterior cruciate ligament ACL is one of the four major ligaments in the human knee.
ADR In the US, the Companys ordinary shares are traded in the form of American Depositary Shares evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
ADS In the US, the Companys ordinary shares are traded in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs.
Arthroscopic Enabling Technologies A product group which includes a variety of technologies such as fluid management equipment for surgical access, high definition cameras, digital image capture, scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation inside the joints, radio frequency, electromechanical and mechanical tissue resection devices, and hand instruments for removing damaged tissue.
Advanced Wound Bioactives A product group which includes biologics and other bioactive technologies that provide unique approaches to debridement and dermal repair regeneration.
Advanced Wound Care A product group which includes products for the treatment and prevention of acute and chronic wounds, including leg, diabetic and pressure ulcers, burns and post-operative wounds.
Advanced Wound Devices A product group which includes traditional and single-use Negative Pressure Wound Therapy and hydrosurgery systems.
AGM Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Arthroscopy Endoscopy of the joints is termed arthroscopy, with the principal applications being the knee andshoulder.
Basis Point One hundredth of one percentage point.
Chronic wounds Chronic wounds are those with long or unknown healing times including leg ulcers, pressure sores and diabetic foot ulcers.
Company Smith & Nephew plc or, where appropriate, the Companys Board of Directors, unless the context otherwise requires.
Companies Act Companies Act 2006, as amended, of England and Wales.
Emerging Markets Emerging Markets include Greater China, India, Brazil and Russia.
EPSA EPSA Adjusted earnings per ordinary share is a trend measure, which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the post-tax impact of specific transactions that management considers affects the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents this measure to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
Adjusted attributable profit is the numerator used for this measure and is determined by adjusting attributable profit for the items that are excluded from operating profit when arriving at trading profit and items that are recognised below operating profit that affect the Groups shortterm profitability.
Endoscopy Through a small incision, surgeons are able to see inside the body using a monitor and identify and repair defects.
Established Markets Established Markets include United States of America, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Canada andJapan.
Euro or References to the common currency used in the majority of the countries of the European Union.
FDA US Food and Drug Administration.
Financial statements Refers to the consolidated Group Accounts of Smith & Nephew plc.
FTSE 100 Index of the largest 100 listed companies on the London Stock Exchange by market capitalisation.
Group or Smith & Nephew Used for convenience to refer to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.
Health economics A branch of economics concerned with issues related to efficiency, effectiveness, value and behaviour in the production and consumption of health and healthcare.
Hip Implants A product group which includes specialist products for reconstruction of the hip joint.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Knee implants A product group which includes an innovative range of products for specialised knee replacement procedures.
MHRA The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK.
197 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued GLOSSARY OF TERMS continued Term Meaning Negative Pressure Wound Therapy A technology used to treat chronic wounds such as diabetic ulcers, pressure sores and post-operative wounds through the application of sub-atmospheric pressure to an open wound.
NHS The UK National Health Service.
NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
Orthopaedic products Orthopaedic reconstruction products include joint replacement systems for knees, hips and shoulders and support products such as computer-assisted surgery and minimally invasive surgery techniques.
Orthopaedic trauma devices are used in the treatment of bone fractures including rods, pins, screws, plates and external frames.
Clinical therapies products include joint fluid therapy for pain reduction of the knee and an ultrasound treatment to accelerate the healing of bone fractures.
Other Surgical Businesses A product group which includes robotics-assisted surgery, various products and technologies to assist in surgical treatment of the ear, nose and throat, and gynaecological instrumentation, until the Gynaecology business disposal in August 2016.
OXINIUM OXINIUM material is an advanced load bearing technology.
It is created through a proprietary manufacturing process that enables zirconium to absorb oxygen and transform to a ceramic on the surface, resulting in a material that incorporates the features of ceramic and metal.
Management believes that OXINIUM material used in the production of components of knee and hip implants exhibits unique performance characteristics due to its hardness, low-friction and resistance to roughening and abrasion.
Parent Company Smith & Nephew plc.
Pound Sterling, Sterling, pence or p References to UK currency.
1p is equivalent to one hundredth of 1.
SEC US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Sports Medicine Joint Repair The Sports Medicine Joint Repair franchise includes instruments, technologies and implants necessary to perform minimally invasive surgery of joints.
Trading results Trading profit, trading profit margin trading profit expressed as a percentage of revenue, trading cash flow and trading profit to cash conversion ratio trading cash flow expressed as a percentage of trading profit are trend measures, which present the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability and cash flows.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be excluded from operating profit and cash generated from operations when arriving at trading profit and trading cash flow, respectively: acquisition and disposal related items arising in connection with business combinations, including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets, impairments and integration costs: restructuring events: gains and losses resulting from legal disputes and uninsured losses.
In addition to these items, gains and losses that materially impact the Groups profitability or cash flows on a short-term or one-off basis and the cash cost to fund defined benefit pension schemes that are closed to future accrual are excluded from operating profit and cash generated from operations when arriving at trading profit and trading cash flow, respectively.
Trauma & Extremities A product group which includes internal and external devices used in the stabilisation of severe fractures and deformity correction procedures.
UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Underlying growth Growth after adjusting for the effects of currency translation and the inclusion of the comparative impact of acquisitions and exclusion of disposals.
US United States of America.
US Dollars, $ or cents or References to US currency.
1 cent is equivalent to one hundredth of US$1.
198 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued INDEX 2016 Financial highlights 183 Information for shareholders 184200 Accounting Policies 114, 119120 Intangible assets 134135 Accounts Presentation 199 Intellectual property 149150 Acquisitions 15, 37, 159161 Interest and other finance costs 126 Acquisition related costs 123, 180 Inventories 137 American Depositary Shares 185186 Investments 136 Articles of Association 192193 Investment in associates 136137 Audit fees 76, 126 Key Performance Indicators 1115, 39 Board 5053 Leases 142, 161 Business overview 67, 171175 Legal and other 123, 180 Business segment information 1824, 121124 Legal proceedings 149150 Cash and borrowings 140142 Liquidity and capital resources 39, 142 Chairmans statement 23 Manufacturing and quality 2930 Chief Executive Officers review 45 New accounting standards 119120 Off-balance sheet arrangements 171 Chief Financial Officers review 3637 Company balance sheet 163 Operating profit 125126 Company notes to the accounts 165170 Other finance costs 126 Contingencies 148150, 166 Our marketplace 1617 Contractual obligations 182 Outlook and trend information 1617, 3839, 171175 Corporate Governance Statement 56 Parent Company accounts 163170 Critical judgements and estimates 114 People Employees 2528 Cross Reference to Form 20-F 194195 Provisions 148150 Currency fluctuations 173 Property, plant and equipment 131132 Currency translation 120 Regulation 17, 43 Deferred taxation 129 Related party transactions 162, 171 Directors Remuneration Report 79105 Research and development 2829 Directors responsibility statement 107 Restructuring and rationalisation expenses 123, 180 Dividends 158, 186187 Retirement benefit obligation 150155 Earnings per share 3, 37, 38, 130131 Risk factors 172175 Employees People 2528 Risk report 4049 Employee share plans 162 Sales and marketing 3031 Ethics and compliance 32, 6970 Selected financial data 176177 Executive Officers 5455 Share based payments 162 Factors affecting results of operations 175 Share capital 156158, 188189 Financial instruments 143147 Strategic priorities 1015 Financial review 3839 Sustainability 3335 Glossary of terms 196197 Taxation 127129 Goodwill 133134 Taxation information for shareholders 190191 Group balance sheet 116 Total shareholder return 94 Group cash flow statement 117 Trade and other payables 139 Group companies 167168 Trade and other receivables 138139 Group history 171 Training and education 32 Group income statement 115 Treasury shares 157 Group notes to the accounts 119162 Group overview 67, 171 Group statement of changes in equity 118 Group statement of comprehensive income 115 Independent auditors reports 108113 199 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued IRAN NOTICE Section 13 r of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make specific disclosure in their annual reports of certain types of dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with Iranian government-owned entities, as well as dealings with entities sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, even when those activities are not prohibited by US law and do not involve US persons.
The Group does not have a legal entity based in Iran, but in 2017 it exported certain medical devices to Iran, via sales by non-US entities, to a new privately owned Iranian distributor for sale in Iran.
Prior to 2017, the Group had sold products via non-US entities to a privately owned distributor based in the UAE who sold products into Iran.
In both cases, sales were to hospitals that we understand are owned or controlled by the Government of Iran.
The Groups direct and indirect sales of US origin medical devices into Iran are permitted pursuant to section 560.530 a 3 i of the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, and its indirect sales of non-US origin medical devices into Iran are made in accordance with applicable law.
The Group also provides training to its distributor s and surgeons in Iran as necessary and ordinarily incident to the safe and effective use of the medical devices, which is also permitted by applicable law.
In 2017, the Groups gross revenues from sales to Iran were approximately $5.2m and net losses were approximately $4.0m, due in part to the transition to the new distributor.
For prior years, approximate gross revenues and net profits of the Group from sales to Iran were: 2016: gross revenues $1.2m, net losses $0.4m: 2015: gross revenues $4.0m, net profits $0.8m: 2014: gross revenues $3.8m, net profits $1.1m: and 2013: gross revenues $3.5m, net profits $1.2m.
The Group is reporting the entire gross revenues and net profits for the activities described above, which figures include sales of US origin medical devices.
The Group has included sales of US origin medical devices in the total gross revenue and net profit figures above as it does not separately break out revenues and profits by country of origin.
The Group intends to continue to engage in the activities described above in accordance with applicable law.
ABOUT SMITH & NEPHEW The Smith & Nephew Group the Group is a global medical devices business operating in the markets for advanced surgical devices comprising orthopaedic reconstruction and trauma, sports medicine and advanced wound management, with revenue of approximately $4.8bn in 2017.
Smith & Nephew plc the Company is the Parent Company of the Group.
It is an English public limited company with its shares listed on the premium list of the UK Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Shares are also traded on the New York Stock Exchange in theform of American Depositary Shares ADSs.
This is the Annual Report of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2017.
It comprises, in a single document, the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company in accordance with UK requirements and the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the regulations of theUnited States Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Smith & Nephew operates on a worldwide basis and has distribution channels in over 100 countries.
The Group is engaged in a single business activity, being the development, manufacture and sale of medical technology products and services.
The Group is structured as two geographical selling regions: US and International: with a president for each who is responsible for the commercial view of that region.
Research & Development, Manufacturing, Supply Chain and Central functions are managed globally for the Group as a whole.
Smith & Nephews corporate website, www.
com, gives additional information on the Group, including an electronic version of this Annual Report.
Information made available on this website, or other websites mentioned in this Annual Report, are not and should not be regarded as being part of, or incorporated into, this Annual Report.
For the convenience of the reader, a Glossary of technical and financial terms used in this document is included on pages 196197.
The product names referred to in this document are identified by use of capital letters and the symbol on first occurrence and are trademarks owned by or licensed to members of the Group.
200 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS continued PRESENTATION The Groups fiscal year end is 31 December.
References to a particular year in this Annual Report are to the fiscal year, unless otherwise indicated.
Except as the context otherwise requires, Ordinary Share or share refer tothe ordinary shares of Smith & Nephew plc of 20 US cents each.
The Group Accounts of Smith & Nephew in this Annual Report are presented in US Dollars.
Solely for the convenience of the reader, certain parts of this Annual Report contain translations of amounts in US Dollars into Sterling at specified rates.
These translations should not be construed as representations that the US Dollar amounts actually represent such Sterling amounts or could be converted into Sterling at the rate indicated.
Unless stated otherwise, the translation of US Dollars and cents to Sterling and pence in this Annual Report has been made at the Bank ofEngland exchange rate on the date indicated.
On 16 February 2018, the latest practicable date for this Annual Report, the Bank of England rate was US$1.40 per 1.00.
The results of the Group, as reported in US Dollars, are affected by movements in exchange rates between US Dollars and other currencies.
The Group applied the average exchange rates prevailing during the year to translate the results of companies with functional currency other than US Dollars.
The currencies which most influenced these translations in theyears covered by this report were Sterling, Swiss Franc and the Euro.
The Accounts of the Group in this Annual Report are presented in millions m unless otherwise indicated.
SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Groups reports filed with, or furnished to, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that may or may not prove accurate.
For example, statements regarding expected revenue growth and trading profit margins discussed under Outlook and Strategic Priorities, market trends and our product pipeline are forward-looking statements.
Phrases such as aim, plan, intend, anticipate, well-placed, believe, estimate, expect, target, consider and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results, to differ materially from what is expressed or implied by the statements.
For Smith & Nephew, these factors include: economic and financial conditions in the markets we serve, especially those affecting healthcare providers, payers and customers: price levels for established and innovative medical devices: developments in medical technology: regulatory approvals, reimbursement decisions or other government actions: product defects or recalls: litigation relating to patent or other claims: legal compliance risks and related investigative, remedial or enforcement actions: strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our success in performing due diligence, valuing and integrating acquired businesses: disruption that may result from transactions or other changes we make in our business plans or organisation to adapt to market developments and numerous other matters that affect us or our markets, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive or reputational nature: relationships with healthcare professionals: reliance on information technology.
Specific risks faced by the Group are described under Risk factors on pages 172175 of this Annual Report.
Any forward-looking statement is based on information available to Smith & Nephew as of the date of the statement.
All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to Smith & Nephew are qualified by this caution.
Smith & Nephew does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forwardlooking statement to reflect anychange in circumstances or inSmith&Nephews expectations.
PRODUCT DATA Product data and product share estimates throughout this report are derived from a variety of sources including publicly available competitors information, internal management information and independent market research reports.
DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY It is possible to read and copy documents referred to in this Annual Report at the Registered Office of the Company.
Documents referred to in this Annual Report that have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US may be read and copied at the SECs public reference room located at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
The SEC also maintains a website at www.
gov that contains reports and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC.
This Annual Report and some of the other information submitted by the Group to the SEC may beaccessed through the SEC website.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION The inks used are renewable, biodegradable and emit fewer Volatile Organic Compounds VOCs than mineraloil inks.
Theyare based on high levels of renewable raw materials such as vegetable oils and naturally occurring resin.
The inks do not contain any toxic heavy metals and therefore, do not pose a problem if placed in landfill.
Designed and Produced by Radley Yeldar.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION Smith & Nephew plc 15 Adam Street London WC2N 6LA United Kingdom T 44 0 20 7401 7646 enquiries@smith-nephew.
