Glossary businesses, including the medium term expected investment return on LGC invested assets, and dividends remitted from LGA.
Release from operations was previously referred to as operational cash generation.
Return on equity ROE ROE measures the return earned by shareholders on shareholder capital retained within the business.
ROE is calculated as IFRS profit after tax divided by average IFRS shareholders funds.
Risk appetite The aggregate level and types of risk a company is willing to assume in its exposures and business activities in order to achieve its business objectives.
SCR coverage ratio The eligible own funds on a regulatory basis divided by the group solvency capital requirement.
This represents the number of times the SCR is covered by eligible own funds.
SCR coverage ratio proforma basis The proforma basis solvency II SCR coverage ratio incorporates the impacts of a recalculation of the Transitional Measures for Technical Provisions and the contribution of with-profits fund and our defined benefit pension schemes in both Own Funds and the SCR in the calculation of the SCR coverage ratio.
SCR coverage ratio shareholder view basis In order to represent a shareholder view of group solvency position, the contribution of with-profits fund and our defined benefit pension schemes is excluded from both the groups Own Funds and the groups solvency capital requirement, by the amount of their respective solvency capital requirements, in the calculation of the SCR coverage ratio.
This incorporates the impacts of a recalculation of the Transitional Measures for Technical Provisions based on end of period economic conditions.
The shareholder view basis does not reflect the regulatory capital position as at 31 December 2017.
This will be made public in May 2018.
Single premiums Single premiums arise on the sale of new contracts where the terms of the policy do not anticipate more than one premium being paid over its lifetime, such as in individual and bulk annuity deals.
Solvency II Taking effect from 1 January 2016, the Solvency II regulatory regime is a harmonised prudential framework for insurance rms in the EEA.
This single market approach is based on economic principles that measure assets and liabilities to appropriately align insurers risk with the capital they hold to safeguard policyholder.
Solvency II new business contribution Reflects present value at the point of sale of expected future Solvency II surplus emerging from new business written in the period using the risk discount rate applicable at the end of the reporting period.
Solvency II Risk Margin An additional liability required in the Solvency II balance sheet, to ensure the total value of technical provisions is equal to the current amount a re insurer would have to pay if it were to transfer its insurance and reinsurance obligations immediately to another re insurer.
The value of the risk margin represents the cost of providing an amount of Eligible Own Funds equal to the Solvency Capital Requirement relating to non-market risks necessary to support the insurance and reinsurance obligations over the lifetime thereof.
Solvency II Surplus The excess of Eligible Own Funds on a regulatory basis over the Solvency Capital Requirement.
This represents the amount of capital available to the company in excess of that required to sustain it in a 1-in-200 year risk event.
Solvency Capital Requirement SCR The amount of Solvency II capital required to cover the losses occurring in a 1-in-200 year risk event.
Total shareholder return TSR TSR is a measure used to compare the performance of different companies stocks and shares over time.
It combines the share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder.
Transitional Measures on Technical Provisions TMTP This is an adjustment to Solvency II technical provisions to bring them into line with the pre-Solvency II equivalent as at 1 January 2016 when the regulatory basis switched over, to smooth the introduction of the new regime.
This will decrease Full-year report 2017 Glossary linearly over the 16 years following Solvency II implementation but may be recalculated to allow for changes impacting the relevant business, subject to agreement with the PRA.
Unbundled DC solution When investment services and administration services are supplied by separate providers.
Typically the sponsoring employer will cover administration costs and scheme members the investment costs.
With-profits funds Individually identifiable portfolios where policyholders have a contractual right to receive additional benefits based on factors such as the performance of a pool of assets held within the fund, as a supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
An insurer may either have discretion as to the timing of the allocation of those benefits to participating policyholders or may have discretion as to the timing and the amount of the additional benefits.
Yield A measure of the income received from an investment compared to the price paid for the investment.
It is usually expressed as a percentage.
