Related party transactions The following are considered related parties: the Board of Directors and F&C including the Manager and fellow members of BMO.
There are no transactions with the Board other than aggregated remuneration for services as Directors as disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 44 and as set out in note 5 on the Accounts.
There were no outstanding balances with the Board at the year end.
There were no transactions with the BMO group other than those detailed: in note 4 on management fees: in note 10, where investments managed or advised by F&C are disclosed: in note 14 in relation to fees owed to the Manager at the Balance Sheet date: and in the Report of the Management Engagement Committee on page 39 regarding the Management agreement in respect of Private Equity fees and a trademark licence agreement, in respect of the F&C name.
Going Concern The Companys investment objective, strategy and policy are subject to a process of regular Board monitoring and are designed to ensure that the Company is invested mainly in readily realisable, publicly listed securities and that the level of borrowings is restricted.
The Company retains title to all assets held by the Custodian and agreements cover its borrowing facilities.
Cash is held with banks approved and regularly reviewed by the Manager and the Board.
The Directors believe that: the Companys objective and policy continue to be relevant to investors: the Company operates within a robust regulatory environment: and the Company has sufficient resources to continue operating within its stated policy for the 12 month period commencing from the date of this report.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been drawn up on the basis that the Company is a going concern.
Financial Risk Management The Company is an investment company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, and conducts its affairs so as to qualify in the UK as an investment trust under the provisions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
In so qualifying, the Company is exempted in the UK from corporation tax on capital gains on its portfolio of investments.
The Companys investment objective is to secure long-term growth in capital and income through a policy of investing primarily in an internationally diversified portfolio of publicly listed equities, as well as unlisted securities and Private Equity, with the use of gearing.
In pursuing the objective, the Company is exposed to financial risks which could result in a reduction of either or both of the value of the net assets and the profits available for distribution by way of dividend.
These financial risks are principally related to the market currency movements, interest rate changes and security price movements, liquidity and credit.
The Board of Directors, together with the Manager, is responsible for the Companys risk management.
The Directors policies and processes for managing the financial risks are set out in a, b and c below.
The significant accounting policies which govern the reported Balance Sheet carrying values of the underlying financial assets and liabilities, as well as the related income and expenditure, are set out in note 2 on the accounts.
The policies are in compliance with UK Accounting Standards and best practice, and include the valuation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value except as noted in d below and in notes 15 and 16 in respect of loans and the perpetual debenture stock.
The Company does not make use of hedge accounting rules.
a Market risks The fair value of equity and other financial securities, including any derivatives, held in the Companys portfolio fluctuates with changes in market prices.
Prices are themselves affected by movements in currencies, interest rates and other macroeconomic, market and financial issues, including the market perception of future risks.
The Boards policies for managing these risks within the Companys objective are set out on page 11.
The Board meets regularly to review full, timely and relevant information on investment performance and financial results.
The Manager assesses exposure to market risks when making each investment decision and monitors ongoing market risk within the portfolio.
The Companys other assets and liabilities may be denominated in currencies other than Sterling and may also be exposed to interest rate risks.
The Manager and the Board regularly monitor these risks.
Borrowings are limited to amounts and currencies commensurate with the portfolios exposure to those currencies, thereby limiting the Companys exposure to future changes in foreign exchange rates.
The debenture deed and loan contracts are agreed and signed by the Board and compliance with the agreements is monitored by the Board at each meeting.
Gearing may be shortor long-term in Sterling and foreign currencies, and enables the Company to take a long-term view of the countries and markets in which it is invested without having to be concerned about short-term volatility.
76 76 || For Foreign & Colonial Investment T eign & Colonial Investment T rust PLC rust PLC
