OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL REPORT 25.
Financial Risk Management continued d Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The assets and liabilities of the Company are, in the opinion of the Directors, reflected in the balance sheet at fair value, or at a reasonable approximation thereof, except for the long-term loans which are carried at amortised cost and the debenture which is carried at proceeds less costs, in accordance with Accounting Standards.
The fair values of the long-term loans and debenture at 31 December 2017 are set out in notes 15 and 16.
Borrowings under overdraft and short-term loan facilities do not have a value materially different from their capital repayment amount.
Borrowings in foreign currencies are converted into Sterling at exchange rates ruling at each valuation date.
The fair value of investments quoted on active markets is determined directly by reference to published price quotations in these markets.
Unquoted investments, including Private Equity investments, are valued based on professional advice and assumptions that are not wholly supported by prices from current market transactions or by observable market data.
The Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques including reference to: net assets: industry benchmarks: cost of investment: roll forward of calls and redemptions: and recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investments.
With respect specifically to investments in Private Equity funds or partnerships, the underlying investment advisers and managers provide regular estimated valuations to the Directors, based on the latest information available to the managers.
The Directors review these valuations for consistency with the Companys own accounting policies and with fair value principles.
The investment advisers and managers estimated valuations relating to the Private Equity funds period ends are compared annually by the Directors to the final audited annual valuations of those funds to ensure that the managers valuation techniques gave rise to valid estimates.
The Directors were satisfied with the results of this annual review, which took place most recently in June 2017, indicating that the Company can, all things being equal, continue to place reliance on the Private Equity advisers and managers estimates and valuation techniques.
e Capital risk management The objective of the Company is stated as being to secure long-term growth in capital and income.
In pursuing this long-term objective, the Board has a responsibility for ensuring the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
It must therefore maintain an optimal capital structure through varying market conditions.
This involves the ability to: issue and buy back share capital within limits set by the shareholders in general meeting: borrow monies in the short and long terms: and pay dividends to shareholders out of current year revenue earnings as well as out of brought forward revenue and capital reserves.
Changes to ordinary share capital are set out in note 17 on the accounts.
Dividend payments are set out in note 9 on the accounts.
The Directors have no current intention to pay dividends out of capital reserves.
Borrowings are set out in notes 13, 15 and 16 on the accounts.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD In accordance with the AIFMD, information in relation to the Companys leverage and the remuneration of the Companys AIFM are required to be made available to investors.
Detailed regulatory disclosures including those on the AIFMs remuneration policy and costs are available on the Companys website or from F&C on request.
The Companys maximum and actual leverage levels at 31 December 2017 are shown below: Gross Commitment Leverage exposure method method Maximum permitted limit 200% 200% Actual 108% 108% The Leverage limits are set by the AIFM and approved by the Board and are in line with the maximum leverage levels permitted in the Companys Articles of Association.
The AIFM is also required to comply with the gearing parameters set by the Board in relation to borrowings.
Securities financing transactions SFT The Company has not, in the year to 31 December 2017 2016: same, participated in any: repurchase transactions: securities lending or borrowing: buy-sell back transactions: margin lending transactions: or total return swap transactions collectively called SFT.
As such, it has no disclosure to make in satisfaction of the EU regulations on transparency of SFT, issued in November 2015.
Report and Accounts Report and Accounts 2017 2017 || 81 81
