Company Accounting Policies Basis of presentation of financial information These financial statements were prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applied the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs, but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.
In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: Statement of Cash Flows and related notes disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries disclosures in respect of capital management the effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel.
As the Group Financial Statements presented on pages 135 to 193 include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures: IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in respect of group settled share-based payments certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.
No individual profit and loss account is prepared as provided by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
Basis of accounting The Company Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies, which have been applied consistently.
Foreign currencies Profit and loss account items in foreign currencies are translated into US dollars at average rates for the relevant accounting periods.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Company Balance Sheet.
Exchange gains and losses on loans and on short-term foreign currency borrowings and deposits are included within net interest payable.
Exchange differences on all other transactions are taken to operating profit.
Taxation The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from reported profit because taxable profit excludes items that are either never taxable or tax deductible or items that are taxable or tax deductible in a different period.
The Companys current tax assets and liabilities are calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
This requires judgements to be made in respect of the availability of future taxable income.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and branches where the Company is able to control the timing of reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The Companys deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates of exposures in relation to tax audit issues.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless the tax positions will probably be sustained based upon management's interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and the likelihood of settlement.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Accruals for tax contingencies are measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
Investments Fixed asset investments, including investments in subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Share-based payments The issuance by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries of a grant of awards over the Companys shares, represents additional capital contributions by the Company to its subsidiaries.
An additional investment in subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grants vesting period, less the market cost of shares charged to subsidiaries in settlement of such share awards.
Financial instruments Loans and other receivables are held at amortised cost.
Long-term loans payable are held at amortised cost.
Litigation Through the normal course of business, the AstraZeneca Group is involved in legal disputes, the settlement of which may involve cost to the Company.
Provision is made where an adverse outcome is probable and associated costs can be estimated reliably.
In other cases, appropriate descriptions are included.
196 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Financial Statements
