Fixed charges consist of interest on all indebtedness, amortisation of debt discount and expense, and that portion of rental expense representative of the interest factor.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Group Financial Record 199 200 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information Additional Information can Science prevent disease in adolescents Today, non-communicable The AstraZeneca Young diseases NCDs kill 40 million Health Programme YHP is people each year, with Type 2 a global disease prevention diabetes, cancer, heart and programme with a focus on respiratory disease accounting adolescents.
Launched in 2010, for over 80% of these deaths.
it tackles the NCD epidemic One way we are addressing this by focusing on risk behaviours.
global health issue is to focus on Our programming, advocacy prevention and, more specifically, and research looks at the primary on youth.
With over 1.2 billion risk factors that lead to disease adolescents in the world today, later in life.
By encouraging improving adolescent health more young people to adopt and wellbeing will not only have healthy habits, it is more likely major benefits for adolescents, to lead to healthier outcomes.
and for those around them, but will also improve the health benefits of future generations.
Through the YHP, I trained to become 30 NGO partners aPeer Educator and now use street 21 countries around the world on five continents theatre to educate young people about 1.6 million youths reached with health their health concerns.
Due to YHP information many young people have given up 12,800 health workers trained smoking and are seeking access to 14,600 peer educators trained healthcare facilities.
Since being part Breakthrough research Johns Hopkins, of the YHP, my confidence has grown Imperial College and the increased responsibility has New evidence Population Reference Bureau given me aclearer sense of purpose.
policy briefs and data sheets on risk behaviours The YHP haschanged my life.
Photo: Marco Betti and AstraZeneca Young Health Programme.
Additional Information Development Pipeline 202 Patent Expiries of Key Marketed Products 208 Risk 210 Geographical Review 221 Sustainability: supplementary information 227 Shareholder Information 228 Trade Marks 234 Glossary 235 Index 239 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Additional Information 201
