Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Moneysupermarket.
Our opinion is unmodified The risk Our response We have audited the Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Revenue Data Capture Our procedures included: Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Company Balance Sheet and Company Statement of Changes recognition Revenue recognition is Control design and operation: Testing, with the assistance of our in Equity, including the accounting policies in note 2.
329.7 million: considered to be a significant own IT specialists, the design and operating effectiveness of the 2016: 316.4 audit risk because of the general IT control environments and application controls in the click In our opinion: million complexities involved in the recording system.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December recording of internet lead Reconciliation: Agreeing total revenue recognised to cash receipts 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Refer to page 50 generation click based revenue.
received in the year, with reference to the movement of trade the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Audit Committee receivables, accrued revenue and output VAT.
adopted by the European Union: Report, page 88 Subjective estimate the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS accounting policy Judgement is required to estimate Test of details: Testing, on a statistical sample basis, the reasonableness 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and and page 93 and unbilled revenue at the period of earned but not billed revenue at the year-end by agreeing the the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 99 financial end.
Revenue is recognised estimated revenue to post year end confirmatory evidence, including Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
predominately from internet lead invoices and cash receipts.
Assessing transparancy: Considering the adequacy of the Groups Basis for opinion Accrued revenue as at period end disclosures in respect of the judgement and estimates around We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities is recorded based on an revenue recognition.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit estimation of the likely number of Our results opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We found revenue recognition to be acceptable.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 22 April 2008.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 11 financial years ended 31 December 2017.
Prior to that we were also auditor to the Groups previous parent company, but which, being unlisted, was not a public-interest entity.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in Capitalisation Accounting treatment Our procedures included: and The criteria for capitalising accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit Control design: Testing the operating effectiveness of controls over services prohibited by that standard were provided.
recoverability of software and development costs purchase order and invoice authorisation of projects, to evidence the software and incurred include assessing appropriate level of approval over total project spend and expenditure development whether the costs are directly being capital in nature: Overview costs attributable to the development Accounting analysis: Comparing a statistical sample of costs capitalised 32.1 million: project and whether the Materiality: 4.8m 2016:4.4m to external invoices to assess whether costs have been appropriately 2016: 37.8 completion of the related asset is Group Financial Statements as a whole 5.0% 2016: 4.8% of Group profit before tax capitalised, by reference to the recognition criteria of the applicable million technically feasible.
The Directors accounting standards, including challenging the Groups assessment of apply judgement in this respect.
Coverage 100% 2016:100% of Group profit before tax the technical feasibility of the related assets based on discussions with Refer to page 50 Capital Project managers and inspecting Board approved business Audit Committee Forecast-based valuation Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 cases, submitted prior to the costs being incurred, outlining the Report, page 89 Software and development Recurring risks proposed features and expected completion dates: Revenue recognition accounting policy project costs are capitalised to and page 97, 98 the extent that future economic Our experience: Challenging the Groups assessment of impairment and 99 financial benefits are expected to be and impairment indicators depending on the project concerned using Capitalisation and recoverability of software and disclosures.
generated by the projects to our understanding of project progress, discussion at Board level and development costs which they relate.
This requires performance to date obtained from our other audit procedures: judgement as to whether Recoverability of Parent Companys investment Benchmarking assumptions: Critically assessing the reasonableness of sufficient profitability will be in subsidiary the assumptions including assessing the historical accuracy of the generated to recover the costs Directors forecasting and corroborating key inputs to internal capitalised.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement performance reporting and knowledge gained performing our other this assessment using a return on Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial audit procedures: and investment calculation.
The key Statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, inputs in that calculation, Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the specifically revenue growth, disclosures in respect of the capitalisation and recoverability of software efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit ability to cross sell products and and development costs.
significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for timing and amount of capital Our results public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures expenditure, all require significant We found the capitalisation and recoverability of software and undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion estimation and judgement.
development costs to be acceptable.
thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.. Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
