Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Intangible assets continued On adoption of IFRS 8 the Group was required to allocate goodwill between its cash generating units CGU that represent the lowest The analysis performed calculates that the recoverable amount of the assets exceeds their carrying value by in excess of 100% 2016: in level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, but are not larger than an operating segment excess of 100%, and as such, no impairment was identified.
With regard to the impairment testing, no reasonably possible change to a as defined by IFRS 8.
These CGUs are the five operating segments Insurance, Money, Travel, Home Services and MoneySavingExpert.
key assumption would result in an impairment 2016: same.
The Group has performed impairment testing at a CGU level.
For the original four segments, the goodwill was allocated on 1 January 2009 based on estimates of the relative values of the operating segments at that date with 30.7m allocated to Insurance, Impairment testing of technology related intangible assets 15.5m to Money, 6.6m to Travel and 2.2m to Home Services.
The balances at 31 December 2017 are in line with those at 1 January Technology related intangible assets in use by the Group are tested for impairment if there is an indication that the asset may be 2009.
Goodwill impairment testing for MoneySavingExpert.
com has been considered separately from the four operating segments impaired.
The Group also conducts annual impairment testing of significant technology related intangible assets under development outlined above and the Group.
and not yet available for use.
Impairment review by vertical and Group Following a Strategic review conducted during 2017, the Group determined that a number of assets, or portions of assets, were no For the current year, the recoverable amount of the assets was taken to be their value in use and was calculated by reference to the longer considered to be an integral part of the Groups operations and the decision was made to fully impair these assets.
impairments related to an element of the Enterprise Data Warehouse 3.0m, the Reset Adobe Experience Manager project which is developing the front end of the website 2.2m, early versions of Mobile Apps 3.3m and an element of work conducted on a back The present value of the future cash flows has been calculated with the following key assumptions: office system 0.8m.
Cash flows for years 13 for each CGU represent managements best estimate of future cash flows as at 31 December 2017, and are based upon the Groups approved three year strategic plan incorporating cost of sales, advertising and an allocation of overhead Enterprise Data Warehouse EDW' is a project to build a data repository and drive improvements in understanding the business and costs.
The main assumptions underlying the plan relate to visitor volumes, source of visitors, revenue per transaction visitor and enriching customer experience.
Although partially impaired in 2017, EDW had a remaining carrying value at 31 December 2017 of 5.6m.
marketing spend, which incorporate past experience.
The forecast assumes continued growth during the course of the next three Management expect EDW to go live in 2018, therefore it still has 60 months remaining to amortise over.
years, driven by new media campaigns, exploitation of the Groups data asset and further investments made during 2017 in the core technology underpinning the Groups key channels.
Project Dawn is a project to re-platform the Energy channel and its back end services to improve efficiencies for the Group and its Cash flows after three years assume no growth.
At 31 December 2017 Project Dawn had a carrying value of 4.5m.
Management expect this to go live early in 2018, therefore Cash flows into perpetuity have been incorporated into the calculations.
it still has 36 months remaining to amortise over.
A pre-tax discount rate of 13.5% 2016: 13.5% has been used in the forecast for the Insurance, Money, Travel and Home Services segments.
Project Fusion is a project to migrate all remaining channels to the Adobe Experience Manager platform to drive back end efficiencies.
At 31 December 2017 Project Fusion had a carrying value of 4.1m.
Management expect this will go live early in 2018, therefore it still has A different set of assumptions may be more appropriate in future years dependent on changes to the macro-economic environment.
36 months remaining to amortise over.
The analysis performed calculates that the recoverable amount of the assets allocated to the Insurance, Money, Travel and Home 13.
Trade and other receivables Services segments exceeds their carrying value by in excess of 100% 2016: 100%, and as such, no impairment was identified.
No 31 December 31 December reasonably possible change to a key assumption would result in an impairment.
2017 2016 m m As explained in note 4, whilst the Group is able to allocate revenue between the Insurance, Money, Travel and Home Services operating Trade and other receivables 37.4 35.7 segments, its cost base is reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker at a Group rather than segmental level, and a number of the significant costs which the Group incurs cannot be allocated either directly or on a reasonable and consistent basis to the CGUs that are each operating segment.
Therefore the cash flows estimated for these segments include all of the Groups forecast All receivables fall due within one year.
revenues and an allocation of the Groups forecast costs.
As a result of click based revenue being recognised in the period that the lead is generated, there is an element of subjectivity in The Group has therefore also performed a further impairment test for the Group as a whole, in a manner consistent with previous years.
calculating a revenue accrual as a result of estimating the number of successful applications on the providers website in the period In these calculations the Group is treated as one group of CGUs, and the test compared the carrying amount, including goodwill and between the latest provider data available and the year end.
This revenue accrual can typically represent approximately one months other corporate assets, to the recoverable amount.
The accrued revenue is estimated by considering the volume of clicks that have passed from the Groups websites through to provider websites in the period, the historic conversion of such clicks into completed product purchases, and contracted revenue per The recoverable amount has been estimated based on the present value of its future cash flows, which has been calculated with a set of transaction.
From historical experience and post year end confirmation, the Group expects any differences between the amounts assumptions consistent with those set out above in relation to the individual operating segment calculations.
accrued at year end and those amounts subsequently billed to be not materially different.
A - 1% difference of the 23.5m revenue accrual 2016: 24.7m would equate to approximately 0.2m 2016: 0.2m.
The analysis performed calculates that the recoverable amount of the Groups assets exceeds their carrying value by in excess of 100% 2016: 100%, and as such, no impairment was identified.
At 31 December 2017, trade receivables are shown net of a provision for doubtful debts of 0.6m 2016: 0.4m, which represents a judgement made by management of which receivables balances are unlikely to be recovered taking into consideration the ageing of the With regard to the Group level impairment testing, no reasonably possible change to a key assumption would result in an impairment debt, evidence of poor payment history or financial position of a particular debtor.
com The recoverable amount has been estimated based on the present value of its future cash flows using the following key assumptions: Cash flows for the first three years represent managements best estimate of future cash flows as at 31 December 2017, and are based upon the Groups approved three year strategic plan.
The main assumptions underlying the plan relate to visitor numbers, the amount of revenue generated per visitor, and the staff resource required to run the business.
The forecast assumes an improvement over the next three years, driven by investments in technology and search engine optimisation.
Cash flows after three years assume no growth.
Cash flows into perpetuity have been built into the model.
A pre-tax discount rate of 16.2% 2016: 16.2% has been used in the forecast.
The carrying value of goodwill is 52.6m at 31 December 2017 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
