Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended Year ended 1.
Corporate information 31 December 31 December The Consolidated Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Company, a company incorporated in England, and its 2017 2016 subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2017, were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on Note m m 21 February 2017.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with Operating activities International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Company Profit for the year 78.1 73.5 Financial Statements in accordance with FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: these Adjustments to reconcile profit for the year to net cash flow from operating activities: are presented on pages 107 to 112.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 1.2 1.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 12 19.5 25.6 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Profit on disposal of associate 23 0.9 0.8 Basis of preparation Profit on disposal of investment 23 1.1 The Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except where otherwise stated.
Comparative figures presented in the Impairment of intangible assets 12 9.3 2.2 Financial Statements represent the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Financial Statements are prepared on a going concern basis, Net finance costs 7 0.8 0.7 which the Directors deem appropriate, given the Groups positive cash position, continued growth and forecast profitability.
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 18 2.0 1.9 Tax charge 8 18.0 17.8 Use of estimates and judgements Change in trade and other receivables 3.6 6.9 The preparation of Financial Statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the Change in trade and other payables 1.9 6.0 application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from Tax paid 18.9 15.9 these estimates.
Net cash flow from operating activities 106.3 106.0 Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the Investing activities period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Interest received 7 0.1 0.1 Acquisition of investment 0.4 0.5 The most significant areas of estimation uncertainty, and areas where critical judgements are made in applying accounting policies that have a material effect on the Financial Statements, are listed below.
The uncertainties encountered, and judgements made, are Disposal of associate 0.9 0.8 described in more detail in the relevant accounting policies and accompanying notes: Disposal of investment 1.5 Note 12 capitalisation and recoverability of software and development costs Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 11 1.5 0.8 Note 13 revenue recognition revenue that has not been received as cash at the period end Acquisition of intangible assets 12 19.4 21.9 Net cash used in investing activities 18.8 22.3 Basis of consolidation Financing activities These Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial Statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
Proceeds from share issue 0.7 0.2 Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns Proceeds from borrowings 17 57.5 44.0 from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
In assessing control, Repayment of borrowings 17 57.5 44.0 the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights.
The acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred to the Purchase of shares by employee trusts 2.7 3.9 acquirer.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control Purchase of own shares 40.0 commences until the date that control ceases.
Payment of transaction costs relating to financing facilities 0.2 0.2 Interest paid 7 0.4 0.3 Accounting for business combinations Distribution in relation to Long Term Incentive Plan 0.3 0.5 From 1 January 2010 the Group has applied IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 in accounting for business combinations.
The change Dividends paid 10 54.1 51.1 in accounting policy has been applied prospectively.
Net cash used in financing activities 97.0 55.8 Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 9.5 27.9 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 44.6 16.7 the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 17 35.1 44.6 the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Changes in liabilities from financing activities Loans and borrowings When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
m Balance at 1 January 2017 The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are Changes from financing cash flows generally recognised in profit or loss.
Proceeds from loans and borrowings 57.5 Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in Repayment of borrowings 57.5 connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Total changes from financing cash flows Balance at 31 December 2017 Any contingent amount payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent amount is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent amount are recognised in profit or loss.
Where the contingent amount is dependent on future employment, it is treated as a cost of continuing employment, and therefore is recognised as an expense over the relevant period.
com Group PLC 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Acquisitions between 22 June 2007 and 1 January 2010 Intangible assets For acquisitions between 22 June 2007 and 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Goodwill Groups interest in the recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment at least acquiree.
When the excess was negative, a bargain purchase gain was recognised immediately in profit or loss.
annually, and whenever there is an indication that the carrying value may be impaired.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with Other intangible assets business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
The cost of other intangible assets acquired in a business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition.
After initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
All the Groups The Group was established via a series of transactions that occurred concurrently on 22 June 2007.
These comprised the incorporation intangible assets other than goodwill have been identified as having finite useful lives.
As such, they are amortised on a straight-line of the Company with Simon Nixon as sole shareholder, the acquisition by the Company using a share for share exchange of Simon basis over their useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be Nixons 45% interest in Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited and the acquisition by the Company of all other shares in impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life, is reviewed at least at Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited from third parties.
The acquisition of Simon Nixons shares was between two parties, each financial year end.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive being Simon Nixon and the Company, who were under common control at the time of the transaction.
The acquisition was of an Income in the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible asset.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: interest in a company which gave the investor a significant influence in the company and it was concluded that this arrangement was a common control transaction and not within the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
As a result the Company accounted for this Market-related 10 years 45% interest in Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited at original carrying value rather than fair value at the date of the Customer relationships 7 years acquisition.
The acquisition of the remaining shares in Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited was accounted for in Non-compete agreement 4 years accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations applying the accounting guidance for a business combination achieved in stages.
This Customer lists 3 years resulted in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Technology 3-5 years Limited being recognised in full and the goodwill in respect of the acquisition from third parties being recognised.
Market-related intangible assets are defined as those that are primarily used in the marketing or promotion of products and services, Revenue for example trademarks, trade names and internet domain names.
The Group generates fees from internet lead generation click based revenue, commissions from brokerage sales and advertising through a variety of contractual arrangements.
The Group recognises click based revenues and associated costs in the period that the Customer-related intangible assets consist of customer lists, customer contracts and relationships, and non-contractual customer lead is generated.
Brokerage commissions are recognised at the point of completion of the transaction with the customer.
For accounting purposes, customer relationships and customer lists have been identified separately.
Relationships with high-profile customers provide the Group with prominence in the marketplace, create volume and traffic on the website, and enhance Advertising revenue is recognised in the period when an advertisement is delivered to the end user.
Revenue is recognised net of value the reputation of the brand.
Customer lists allow the Group to undertake targeted marketing activities.
Technology-based intangible assets relate to innovations and technical advances such as computer software, patented and unpatented Cost of Sales technology, databases and trade secrets.
The Group recognises associated costs of internet lead generation in the period that the lead is generated.
Costs in respect of cashback payments made by the Group to customers are included in cost of sales.
Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such Property, plant and equipment indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
For the purposes of impairment reviews, the recoverable amount of the Groups assets is taken to be the higher of their fair value less Depreciation is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of each part costs to sell and their value in use.
of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Assets under construction are not depreciated until brought into use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Investments in equity securities Fixed asset and short term investments in equity securities held by the Group are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated Buildings 50 years at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity in the fair value reserve, except for impairment losses Plant and equipment including IT equipment 3 years and foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in profit or loss.
When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative Fixtures and fittings 5 years gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
Office equipment 5 years Research and development The useful lives and depreciation rates are reassessed at each reporting date.
Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining technical knowledge and understanding, is charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income when incurred.
Development expenditure is capitalised when it meets the criteria outlined in IAS 38.
Expenditure that does not meet the criteria is expensed directly to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
com Group PLC 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Employee benefits asset can be utilised.
Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Deferred tax liabilities are recognised at the expected future tax rate of the value of the intangible assets with finite lives which are Comprehensive Income as incurred.
acquired through business combinations representing the tax effect of the amortisation of these assets in future periods.
Share-based payment transactions These liabilities will decrease in line with the amortisation of the related intangible assets, with the deferred tax credit recognised in the The Groups share schemes allow certain Group employees to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
The fair value of share awards Statement of Comprehensive Income in accordance with IAS 12. made is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at award date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards.
The fair values of the share awards Research and development tax credits are accounted for in accordance with IAS 20 as a government grant.
The credit is recognised once are measured using the Monte Carlo method for options subject to a market-based condition and the Black-Scholes model for all a reasonable estimate of the amount can be made.
others, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were made.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the number of share awards expected to vest.
Reserve for own shares The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
In connection with these, shares in the Company are Short-term employee benefits held by an Employee Benefit Trust EBT'.
The assets and liabilities of the EBT are required to be consolidated within these accounts as it Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of is deemed to be under fide facto control of the Group.
The assets of the EBT mainly comprise Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC shares, Comprehensive Income as the related service is provided.
which are shown as a deduction from total equity at cost.
A provision is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or deferred bonus plan if the Group has a Group management of capital present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can The Groups objectives when managing capital are: be estimated reliably.
The Groups deferred bonus plans currently do not have any ongoing performance obligations and are therefore to safeguard the entitys ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and provided for as described above in the period to which they related.
benefits for other stakeholders: and to provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk.
Advertising costs The Group incurs costs from advertising via a number of different media.
Costs associated with the production of adverts are The Group sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk.
The Group manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income only once the advert is available to the Group in a the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets.
In assessing the level of capital all format ready for use, having been approved for airing or displaying.
The cost of airing or displaying the advert is taken as an expense in components of equity are taken into account, i. e. share capital, retained earnings and reserves where applicable, as well as unvested the period in which the advert is aired or displayed.
Finance income In line with internal capital management requirements, the Group manages its cash balances by, where possible, depositing them with Finance income comprises interest receivable, which is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as it a number of financial institutions to reduce credit risk.
accrues using the effective interest method.
In December 2015, the Group secured a three-year revolving credit facility for an amount of 100m in committed funds provided in Finance costs equal parts by Lloyds Bank PLC and Barclays Bank PLC with half-yearly covenant testing based on adjusted leverage and interest cover Finance costs comprise of interest charged on borrowings.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less directly attributable ratios.
The Group also has an accordion option to apply to the banks for up to an additional 100m of committed funds.
The effective interest rate method is then used for subsequent re-measurement of borrowings at amortised cost.
This facility was extended to December 2019 for a fee of 175,000 in October 2016, and again in November 2017 to December 2020 for Operating leases the same fee.
The Group has no amounts drawn down from the facility at 31 December 2017.
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease except where another more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which Management of capital focuses around the Groups ability to generate cash from its operations.
In order to maintain or adjust the economic benefits from the lease asset are consumed.
Lease incentives and rent-free periods are amortised through the Consolidated capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, Statement of Comprehensive Income over the term of the relevant lease.
or sell assets to raise funds.
The Group believes it is meeting its objectives for managing capital as funds are available for reinvestment where necessary as well as being in a position to make returns to shareholders where this is felt appropriate.
Dividends Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability and deducted from shareholders equity in the period in There were no changes to the Groups approach to capital management during the year.
which the shareholders right to receive payment is established.
Standards, amendments and interpretations adopted during the period Taxation The Group has adopted the following standards, amendments and interpretations which have not had a significant impact on the Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Groups results: Comprehensive Income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Disclosure initiative Amendments to IAS 7 Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates in force for the year, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
com Group PLC 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
