Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC only continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended Year ended 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception 31 December 31 December Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 2017 2016 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Note m m from branches not visited by us: or Revenue 329.7 316.4 the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Cost of sales 85.2 79.6 with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Gross profit 244.5 236.8 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Distribution expenses 29.3 34.3 Administrative expenses 111.0 109.1 We have nothing to report in these respects.
Impairment of intangible assets 12 9.3 2.2 Operating profit 5 94.9 91.2 7.
Respective responsibilities Net finance costs 7 0.8 0.7 Directors responsibilities Profit on disposal of associate and investment 23 2.0 0.8 As explained more fully in their statement set out on pages 75 to 76, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the Financial Statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable Profit before tax 96.1 91.3 the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group Taxation 8 18.0 17.8 and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the Profit for the year 78.1 73.5 going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year 78.1 73.5 Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material All profit and comprehensive income is attributable to the equity holders of the Company.
misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will Earnings per share always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users Basic earnings per ordinary share p 9 14.4 13.5 taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Diluted earnings per ordinary share p 9 14.4 13.4 A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
In planning and performing our audit, we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of regulatory compliance, recognising that, as an insurance intermediary, the Group is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
We identified these areas through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, from our sector experience, and from inspection of the groups relevant regulatory correspondence.
In addition we had regard to laws and regulations in other areas including financial reporting, and company and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements, being regulatory compliance, as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
For the remaining laws and regulations, we made enquiries of directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and inspected correspondence with regulatory authorities.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Stuart Crisp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 21 February 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
