SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Transfer Secretaries in South Africa Key contact details Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited Registered office and principal UK address Rosebank Towers Hammerson plc 15 Biermann Avenue Kings Place Rosebank 2196 90 York Way South Africa or London PO Box 61051 N1 9GE Marshalltown 2107 Registered in England No.
co. za Principal address in Ireland Annual General Meeting Hammerson Group Management Limited Pembroke District The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am UK time on 24 Dundrum Town Centre April 2018 at Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GE.
Dublin 14 Details of the Annual General Meeting and the resolutions to be voted Tel: 353 0 1695 0550 upon can be found in the Notice of Meeting which is available at www.
Principal address in France Payment of dividends to mandated accounts Hammerson France SAS 40 48 rue Cambon UK shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid 75001 Paris direct to a bank or building society account and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction available from the Registrar Tel: 33 0 156 69 30 00 or register their mandate at www.
Advisors UK Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Valuer: Cushman & Wakefield LLP Shareholders can reinvest dividend payments in additional shares in Auditor:  LLP the Company under the DRIP operated by the Registrar by completing Solicitor: Herbert Smith Freehills LLP an application form online at: www.
Joint Brokers and Financial Advisors: J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Deutsche Bank AG Elections to participate in the DRIP or cancellation of previous Financial Advisor: Lazard Ltd instructions in respect of the final dividend must be received by the Joint South African Sponsors: Deutsche Securities SA Proprietary Companys Registrar no later than 15 business days before the Limited and Java Capital Proprietary Limited dividend payment date.
The DRIP will continue to be available to shareholders who have already completed an application form.
Such Shareholder administration shareholders should take no action unless they wish to receive their For assistance with queries about the administration of shareholdings, dividend in cash, in which case they should contact the Registrar to such as lost share certificates, change of address, change of ownership cancel their instruction.
or dividend payments, please contact the relevant Registrar or South African DRIP Transfer Secretaries.
Shareholders registered on the South African branch register who Registrar in the United Kingdom hold their shares through the Strate system and who wish to Link Asset Services participate in the DRIP should contact their Central Securities The Registry Depository Participants or brokers.
34 Beckenham Road Link share dealing services Kent BR3 4TU An online and telephone share dealing facility is available to shareholders wishing to deal in shares on the UK share register.
Tel: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone For more information visit www.
companys access charge or 44 371 664 0300 from overseas calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
ShareGift Lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes holidays in England and Wales.
it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to Email: enquiries@linkgroup.
co. uk charity through ShareGift, a registered charity registered charity number: 1052686.
Further information about ShareGift is available Website: www.
org, by email at help@sharegift.
org or by writing to Please note that Capita Asset Services became part of Link Group and ShareGift, PO Box 72253, London, SW1P 9LQ.
To donate shares please changed its name to Link Asset Services in November 2017. contact ShareGift or Link Asset Services.
192 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Normal dividends paid to overseas shareholders are paid gross but Strate Charity Shares may be subject to taxation in the shareholders country of residence.
South African shareholders for whom the cost of selling their shares For South African shareholders, dividends tax at 15% will be withheld would exceed the market value of such shares may wish to consider and paid over to the South African Revenue Service on the donating them to charity.
An independent non-profit organisation shareholders behalf.
Certain shareholders, including South African called Strate Charity Shares has been established to administer this tax resident companies, retirement funds and approved public benefit process.
For further details or donations contact the Strate Charity organisations are exempt from dividends tax but it is the Shares toll free help line on 0800 202 363 if calling from South Africa responsibility of each shareholder to seek their own advice.
Dividends or 27 11 870 8207 if calling from outside South Africa.
tax does not apply to scrip dividends, whether paid as a PID or a Email: charityshares@computershare.
Unsolicited mail UK Real Estate Investment Trust REIT taxation Hammerson is obliged by law to make its share register available on As a UK REIT, Hammerson plc is exempt from corporation tax on request to other organisations.
This may result in shareholders rental income and gains on UK investment properties but is required receiving unsolicited mail.
To limit the receipt of unsolicited mail to pay Property Income Distributions PIDs.
UK shareholders will be UK shareholders may register with the Mailing Preference Service, taxed on PIDs received at their full marginal tax rates.
A REIT may in an independent organisation whose services are free, by visiting addition pay normal dividends.
Once a shareholders name and address details have been registered, the Mailing Preference Service will For most shareholders, PIDs will be paid after deducting withholding advise companies and other bodies that subscribe to the service not tax at the basic rate.
However, certain categories of UK shareholder to send unsolicited mail to the address registered.
are entitled to receive PIDs without withholding tax, principally UK resident companies, UK public bodies, UK pension funds and Shareholder security managers of ISAs, PEPs and Child Trust Funds.
Further information Share fraud includes scams where fraudsters cold-call investors on UK REITs is available on the Companys website, including a form offering them overpriced, worthless or non-existent shares, or offer to be used by shareholders to certify if they qualify to receive PIDs to buy shares owned by investors at an inflated price.
We advise without withholding tax.
shareholders to be vigilant of unsolicited mail or telephone calls PIDs paid to overseas shareholders are subject to withholding tax at regarding buying or selling shares.
South African shareholders may apply to Her Majestys Revenue visit: www.
uk scams or call the FCA Consumer Helpline and Customs after payment of a PID for a refund of the difference on 0800 111 6768. between the 20% withholding tax and the prevailing UK South Primary and secondary listing African double tax treaty rate.
South African shareholders will have no further liability to dividends tax in South Africa.
Other overseas The Company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and a secondary inward listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
shareholders may be eligible to apply for similar refunds of UK withholding tax under the terms of the relevant tax treaties.
Table 112 Financial Calendar Recommended final dividend Last day to effect removal of shares between the United Kingdom UK and South African SA registers 5 March 2018 Currency conversion announcement released 6 March 2018 Last day to trade on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange to qualify for the dividend 13 March 2018 Ex-dividend on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange from commencement of trading on 14 March 2018 Ex-dividend on the London Stock Exchange from the commencement of trading on 15 March 2018 Record date applicable to both the UK principal register and the SA branch register 16 March 2018 Removal of shares between the UK and SA registers permissible from 19 March 2018 Last day for receipt of Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP mandates by Central Securities Depository Participants CSDPs 23 March 2018 Last day for receipt of DRIP elections to SA Transfer Secretaries 26 March 2018 by 1.00pm SA time Last day for receipt of DRIP elections by UK Registrars 5 April 2018 Annual General Meeting 24 April 2018 Final dividend payable UK and SA 26 April 2018 DRIP purchases settlement date subject to market conditions and the purchase of shares in the open market 15 May 2018 Anticipated 2018 interim dividend October 2018 HAMMERSON.
