Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable We confirm, to the best of our knowledge, that: law and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the directors to prepare financial International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by statements for each financial year.
Under that law the the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, directors are required to prepare the Group financial financial position and profit or loss of the Company and statements in accordance with International Financial the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European whole: and Union EU and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under development and performance of the business and the company law the directors must not approve the financial position of the Company and the undertakings included statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit description on pages 18 and 19 of the principal risks and or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these uncertainties that they face.
financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: We also confirm that the financial statements, taken as a properly select and apply accounting policies: whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the present information, including accounting policies, in a Companys position, performance, business model and manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and strategy.
understandable information: By order of the Board provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable H M Henderson A L C Bell users to understand the impact of particular transactions, Chairman Chief Executive other events and conditions on the entitys financial 12 March 2018 12 Mar ch 2018 position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Note to those who access this document by electronic means The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 has The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting been approved by the Board of Witan Investment Trust plc.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Copies of the Annual Report and the Half Year Report are transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any circulated to shareholders, to those who hold shares through time the financial position of the Company and enable them Witan Investment Services Limiteds savings schemes to ensure that the financial statements comply with the and, where possible, to investors through other providers Companies Act 2006. products and nominee companies or written notification is sent when they are published online.
It is also made They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of available in electronic format for the convenience of readers.
the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Printed copies are available from the Companys Registered prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
56 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017
