Shareholder information and Alternative Performance Measures You can contact our Registrar, Computershare Investor Points of Reference Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech You can follow the progress of your investment through the and hearing impaired people who have their own telephone newspapers.
Witans share price appears daily in the national to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate press stock exchange listings under Investment Trusts or operator, by dialling 0370 702 0005.
Specially trained operators Investment Companies and is also included on the Witan are available during normal business hours to answer queries website www.
The London Stock Exchange Daily via this service.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a Official List SEDOL code is 0974406. typetalk operator provided by The Royal National Institute for Dividend Deaf People, you should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
A fourth interim dividend of 6.75p per share has been declared, payable on 29 March 2018.
The record date for the dividend was 2 March 2018 and the ex-dividend date for the Definitions of Alternative Performance Measures dividend was 1 March 2018 see pages 4 and 28.
Benchmark: The benchmark is a composite of five indices: the FTSE All-Share Index 30%, the FTSE All-World North America Dividend Tax Allowance Index 25%, the FTSE All-World Europe ex UK Index 20%, the From April 2016 dividend tax credits have been replaced by FTSE All-World Asia Pacific Index 20% and the FTSE Emerging an annual 5,000 tax-free allowance on dividend income Markets Index 5%.
across an individuals entire share portfolio, reduced to 2,000 with effect from April 2018.
Above this amount, individuals Gearing: The difference between shareholders funds and pay tax on their dividend income at a rate dependent on the total market value of the investments including the face their income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
The value of futures positions expressed as a percentage of Company will continue to provide registered shareholders shareholders funds.
with a confirmation of the dividends it has paid and this should be included with any other dividend income received when Net asset value per share debt at par and debt at fair calculating and reporting total dividend income received.
It is value : This is the value of total assets less all liabilities of the the shareholders responsibility to include all dividend income Company.
The Net Asset Value, or NAV, per Ordinary Share when calculating any tax liability.
is calculated by dividing this amount by the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue excluding those shares held in Capital Gains Tax Treasury.
Please refer to note 18 on pages 90 to 91.
The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on your personal circumstances.
If you are in any doubt about Net asset value total return: The movement in the net asset your personal tax position, you are recommended to contact value per share debt at fair value adjusted to include the your professional adviser.
reinvestment of each dividend paid during the respective periods calculation.
Please note that tax assumptions may change if the law changes, and the value of tax relief if any will depend upon Ongoing Charge: The ongoing charge reflects those expenses your individual circumstances.
Investors should consult their of a type which are likely to recur in the foreseeable future, own tax advisers in order to understand any applicable tax whether charged to capital or revenue as a collective fund, consequences.
excluding the costs of acquisition and disposal, finance costs and gains or losses arising on investments.
The calculation Beneficial Owners of Shares Information Rights is performed in accordance with the guidelines issues by the Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the AIC.
Please refer to pages 13 and 14 of this Annual Report.
registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 should direct Premium Discount: The amount by which the market price all communications to the registered holder of their shares per share is either higher premium or lower discount than rather than to the Companys Registrar, Computershare, or to the net asset value per share expressed as a percentage of the the Company directly.
net asset value per share.
Disability Act Share price total return: The movement in ordinary share Copies of this Annual Report and other documents issued by price adjusted to include the reinvestment of each dividend Witan Investment Trust plc are available from the Company paid during the respective periods calculation.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 99 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report
