How to invest There are various ways to invest in Witan Investment Trust The Jump Child Trust Fund is, like the Junior ISA, a tax plc.
Witans shares can be traded through any UK stockbroker efficient savings vehicle with the same annual limits as the and most share dealing services and platforms, that Junior ISA but the annual term is measured by the childs offer investment trusts including Alliance Trust Savings, birthday.
Each child born in the UK from 1 September 2002 up Hargreaves Lansdown, Barclays Stockbrokers, Halifax Share to and including 2 January 2012 was eligible for a CTF.
You can Dealing Limited, Interactive Investor and AJ Bell, as well as transfer existing CTFs to a Jump CTF or directly into a Jump Computershare, the Companys Registrars.
Advisers who Junior ISA subject to a minimum transfer value of 1,000. wish to purchase Witan shares for their clients can do so via a stockbroker, Witan Savings Schemes or via a growing The Jump Savings Plan offers greater flexibility than the number of dedicated platforms including Seven Investment Junior ISA or CTF in terms of the limits, access and control Management, Transact and Fidelity FundsNetwork.
It can also be opened by grandparents, relatives and other family friends.
You can open a Jump Witan is available for investment through two savings Savings Plan with a lump sum investment of 250 or 50 per schemes managed by Witan Investment Services Witan month or quarter.
NB: Given the flat rate annual fees for Wisdom and Jump, the Witan Wisdom cost is high for the minimum subscription levels to our plans and investors should consider carefully the suitability for them Witan Wisdom offers two different savings wrappers: if they do not plan to add to the account.
The Witan Wisdom ISA is a stocks and shares ISA that Brochures, which include terms and conditions, including enables investors to buy Witan shares within a tax efficient costs, and application forms for all of our products are wrapper.
Investors have an annual ISA allowance of up to available by calling 0800 082 81 80 or online via www.
The minimum If you would prefer to write to request further information, the lump sum investment with Witan Wisdom ISA is 2,000, with address details can be found on page 100.
To keep up to date the regular savings minimum being 100 per month.
Investors on news and commentary from Witan Investment Trust plc can also transfer existing ISAs to Witan Wisdom while please visit www.
com stayintouch to provide us with retaining their tax efficient wrapper during and after transfer.
The Witan Wisdom Share Plan is our straightforward, lowWitan Investment Trust plc is an equity investment.
The minimum lump sum investment is are reminded that past performance is not a guide to future 500, and the minimum regular contribution is 50 per month performance and the value of investments and the income or quarter.
Accounts can also be held from them may go down as well as up and investors may not jointly, or designated to a child.
get back the amount originally invested.
Jump Savings for children Jump gives parents, grandparents and other adults the Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
chance to invest in Witan on behalf of a child.
This flexible Witan Investment Services Limited of 14 Queen Annes savings plan has a minimum lump sum investment set at 250 Gate, London SW1H 9AA is registered in England and Wales and regular contributions can be made from 50 per month or number 5272533.
Witan Investment Services Limited provides quarter.
Jump is available in three different wrappers: investment products and services and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
We may record The Junior ISA is a tax efficient wrapper available to children telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve born before 1 September 2002 or after 3 January 2012, or customer service.
those who did not qualify for a Child Trust Fund CTF.
The account can only be opened by a parent though others can add to it.
It currently has an annual subscription limit of 4,128 for the 2017 18 tax year and 4,260 for the 2018 19 tax year.
You can open a Jump Junior ISA with a minimum lump sum investment of 250 or 50 per month or quarter.
98 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017
