GSK Annual Report 2017 About GSK Brand names GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an English Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trade marks either owned by and or licensed to GSK public limited company on 6 December 1999.
We were or associated companies, with the exception of Edurant owned by Janssen, Cialis owned by Eli Lilly and Company formed by a merger between Glaxo Wellcome plc and and Rituxan owned by Biogen MA Inc. Zofran owned by Novartis AG and Trumenba owned by Pfizer Inc. SmithKline Beecham plc.
GSK acquired these two Acknowledgements English companies on 27 December 2000 as part Design Friend www.
com of the merger arrangements.
FSC certified and Carbon Neutral.
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange Paper and the New York Stock Exchange.
This Annual Report is printed on Revive 100 Silk, a 100% recycled paper with full FSC certification.
All pulps used are made from 100% fide-inked, paper waste and are elemental chlorine free.
The manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and EU Ecolabel certificates for environmental management.
com Download PDFs: Annual Report 2017 Form 20-F Responsible Business Supplement 2017 Cautionary statement regarding A number of adjusted measures are used to report the Given the potential development options in the Groups forward-looking statements performance of our business.
These measures are defined pipeline, the outlook may be affected by additional on page 58 and a reconciliation of Adjusted results to Total data-driven R&D investment decisions.
The expectations are The Groups reports filed with or furnished to the US results is set out on page 67. given on a constant currency basis 2016-2020 outlook at Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including 2015 CER.
Subject to material changes in the product mix, this document and written information released, or oral The information in this document does not constitute an and following the enactment of US tax reform, the Groups statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GlaxoSmithKline medium-term effective tax rate is expected to be in the of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements.
plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other region of 19-20% of Adjusted profits.
This incorporates Forward-looking statements give the Groups current investment activities.
Past performance cannot be relied managements best estimates of the impact of US tax reform expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can upon as a guide to future performance.
Nothing in this on the Group based on the information currently available.
identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
As more information on the detailed application of the US strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such Tax Cuts and Jobs Act becomes available, the assumptions as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, project, Assumptions related to 2016-2020 outlook underlying these estimates could change with consequent plan, believe and other words and terms of similar In outlining the expectations for 2018 and the five-year adjustments to the charges taken that could have a material meaning in connection with any discussion of future period 2016-2020, the Group has made certain impact on the results of the Group.
In particular, these assumptions about the healthcare sector, the different include statements relating to future actions, prospective markets in which the Group operates and the delivery of Notice regarding limitations on products or product approvals, future performance or revenues and financial benefits from its current portfolio, Director Liability under English Law results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, pipeline and restructuring programmes.
Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and proceedings, and financial results.
Other than in For the Group specifically, over the period to 2020 GSK omissions from the Directors Report for which see page accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations expects further declines in sales of Seretide Advair.
The 112, the Strategic report and the Remuneration report.
including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure introduction of a generic alternative to Advair in the US has Under English law the Directors would be liable to the and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct been factored into the Groups assessment of its future company, but not to any third party, if one or more of these Authority, the Group undertakes no obligation to update performance.
The Group assumes no premature loss of reports contained errors as a result of recklessness or any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of exclusivity for other key products over the period.
The Group knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a new information, future events or otherwise.
The reader expects at least 6 billion of revenues per annum on a CER material fact, but would otherwise not be liable.
Pages 79 should, however, consult any additional disclosures that basis in 2018 from products launched since 2013 including to 112, 148, 233 and 257 to 286 inclusive comprise the the Group may make in any documents which it publishes contributions from Shingrix.
Directors Report, pages 2 to 78 inclusive comprise the and or files with the SEC.
All readers, wherever located, Strategic report and pages 113 to 146 inclusive comprise The assumptions for the Groups revenue and earnings should take note of these disclosures.
Accordingly, no the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn expectations assume no material interruptions to supply of assurance can be given that any particular expectation up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon the Groups products and no material mergers, acquisitions, will be met and shareholders are cautioned not to place English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in disposals, litigation costs or share repurchases for the undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
connection with these reports shall be subject to the Company: and no change in the Groups shareholdings in Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
ViiV Healthcare or Consumer Healthcare.
They also assume inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to no material changes in the macro-economic and healthcare Website factors that are beyond the Groups control or precise environment.
The 2018 guidance and 2016-2020 outlook estimate.
The Group cautions investors that a number of GSKs website www.
com gives additional information have factored in all divestments and product exits since important factors, including those in this document, could on the Group.
Notwithstanding the references we make 2015, including the divestment and exit of more than 130 cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this Annual Report to GSKs website, none of the non-core tail brands 0.5 billion in annual sales as or implied in any forward-looking statement.
information made available on the website constitutes part announced on 26 July 2017. of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be incorporated Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed The Groups expectations assume successful delivery of the by reference herein.
under Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 257 to Groups integration and restructuring plans over the period 266 of this Annual Report.
Any forward-looking statements 2016-2020 including the extension and enhancement to the made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the date combined programme announced on 26 July 2017.
Material they are made and are based upon the knowledge and costs for investment in new product launches and R&D have information available to the Directors on the date of this been factored into the expectations given.
Head Office and Registered Office GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS United Kingdom Search for us here Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 Registered number: 3888792 www.
