166 GSK Annual Report 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting principles and policies continued Taxation Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Derivatives tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception balance sheet date.
as cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences arising Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are extent that the hedges are effective.
Ineffective portions are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Amounts deferred in will be available against which the temporary differences can be other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be flow hedges.
controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is provided using rates hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not Derivative financial instruments and hedging qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to income statement.
The principal derivative instruments used by GSK are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign exchange Discounting forward contracts and options.
The Group does not hold or issue Where the time value of money is material, balances are derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative discounted to current values using appropriate discount rates.
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income and finance expense.
Key accounting judgements and estimates In preparing the financial statements, management is required Taxation to make judgements about when or how items should be The tax charge for the year was 1,356 million 2016 877 million.
recognised in the financial statements and estimates and At December 2017, current tax payable was 995 million assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue 2016 1,305 million, non-current corporation tax payable was and expenses reported in the financial statements.
Actual 411 million 2016 nil, current tax recoverable was 258 million amounts and results could differ from those estimates.
The 2016 226 million, deferred tax liabilities were 1,396 million following are considered to be the key accounting judgements 2016 1,934 million and deferred tax assets were 3,796 million and estimates made.
Turnover Deferred tax assets are recognised when the judgement is made that Reported Group turnover for 2017 was 30,186 million it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 2016 27,889 million.
the temporary differences can be utilised, based on managements assumptions relating to the amounts and timing of future taxable Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and profits.
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years, in particular, product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by product US tax reform, are set out in Note 14, Taxation.
A 1% change in the arrangements and buying groups.
These arrangements with Groups effective tax rate in 2017 would have changed the Total tax purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission of charge for the year by approximately 35 million.
claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale.
Accruals are made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts or The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities.
allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available market Where management makes a judgement that an outflow of funds is information and historical experience.
probable and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made, provision is made for the best estimate of the liability.
In Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the estimating any such liability GSK applies a risk-based approach final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent which takes into account, as appropriate, the probability that the upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product Group would be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under sales mix.
These estimates take into account the The level of accrual for rebates and returns is reviewed and adjusted specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, regularly in the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time trends, past experience and projected market conditions.
Market as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge.
conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research data and internally generated information.
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
167 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 3.
Key accounting judgements and estimates continued GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for Contingent consideration and put option liabilities the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
At 31 December The 2017 income statement charge for contingent consideration and 2017, the Group had recognised provisions of 1,175 million in put option liabilities was 2,134 million 2016 3,991 million.
respect of uncertain tax positions 2016 1,892 million.
Where At 31 December 2017, the liability for contingent consideration open issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from amounted to 6,172 million 2016 5,896 million.
Of this amount, the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of 5,542 million 2016 5,304 million related to the acquisition of negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 and proceedings.
584 million 2016 545 million related to the acquisition of the Legal and other disputes Vaccines business from Novartis in 2016.
Legal costs for the year were 166 million 2016 162 million.
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration payable At 31 December 2017 provisions for legal and other disputes for a business combination is recorded at fair value at the date of amounted to 186 million 2016 344 million.
These fair values are generally based on risk-adjusted The Group provides for anticipated settlement costs where future cash flows discounted using appropriate post-tax discount management makes a judgement that an outflow of resources is rates.
The fair values are reviewed on a regular basis, at least probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of annually, and any changes are reflected in the income statement.
the dispute and legal and other expenses arising from claims against See Note 39, Contingent consideration liabilities.
The estimated provisions take into account the specific During 2015, the Group granted a put option to Novartis in respect circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, are of Novartis shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time as In certain circumstances, Novartis has the right to require GSK to each dispute progresses and new facts emerge.
Details of the status acquire its 36.5% shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Joint and various uncertainties involved in the significant unresolved Venture at a market-based valuation.
This right is exercisable in disputes are set out in Note 45, Legal proceedings.
certain windows from 2018 to 2035 and may be exercised either in respect of Novartis entire shareholding or in up to four instalments.
The companys Directors, having taken legal advice, have GSK has recognised a financial liability of 8,606 million at established provisions after taking into account the relevant facts 31 December 2017 2016 7,420 million.
This represents the and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting present value of the redemption value estimated by GSK in the event requirements.
In respect of product liability claims related to certain of full exercise of the right by Novartis and is calculated by applying products there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to relevant public company multiples, with no premium or discount, to enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision forecast future profits in accordance with the shareholder required to cover unasserted claims.
The Group may become involved agreements.
Sensitivity analysis is given in Note 27, Trade and other in legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible to make a payables.
reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings.
In these cases, Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if either appropriate disclosure about such cases would be provided, but no GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not completed provision would be made and no contingent liability can be quantified.
within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to acquire its The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts shareholding.
A liability for the put option was recognised on the provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation Groups balance sheet during 2016 at an initial value of 1,070 proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and Shionogi on assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal the Groups balance sheet during 2016.
The liability for the Pfizer put proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported option, which is derived from an internal valuation of the ViiV in the Groups financial statements by a material amount.
Healthcare business, utilising both discounted forecast future cash flow and multiples-based methodologies amounted to 1,304 million Intangible asset impairments at 31 December 2017 2016 1,319 million.
Sensitivity analysis is At 31 December 2017, intangible assets were 17,562 million also given in Note 27, Trade and other payables.
Impairment tests on intangible assets are undertaken if events occur which call into question the carrying values of the assets.
In addition, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, or which are not yet available for use, are subject to annual impairment tests.
Valuations for impairment tests are based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows over the estimated useful life of the asset, where limited, discounted using appropriate discount rates as set out in Note 19, Other intangible assets.
The assumptions relating to future cash flows, estimated useful lives and discount rates are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in these impairment tests to change with a consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
