240 GSK Annual Report 2017 Notes to the company balance sheet UK GAAP including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework A Presentation of the financial statements B Accounting policies Description of business Foreign currency transactions GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery, ruling on the date of transaction.
Foreign currency assets and development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance products, including vaccines, over-the-counter OTC medicines sheet date.
Dividends paid and received Preparation of financial statements Dividends paid and received are included in the financial statements The financial statements, which are prepared using the historical in the period in which the related dividends are actually paid or cost convention as modified to include the revaluation of certain received.
financial instruments and on a going concern basis, are prepared in Expenditure accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received Disclosure Framework and with UK accounting presentation and the when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is Companies Act 2006 as at 31 December 2017, with comparative made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a figures as at 31 December 2016. past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the estimated.
income statement of the company is not presented in this Annual Report.
Investments in subsidiary companies Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any The company is included in the Group financial statements of provision for impairment and also adjusted for movements in GlaxoSmithKline plc, which are publicly available.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have Impairment of investments been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment in accordance with FRS 101: when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments - Disclosures the income statement in the year concerned.
Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement Share based payments Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over comparative information requirements in respect of the companys shares, represents additional capital contributions paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 by the company in its subsidiaries.
An additional investment in Paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 16, 38 A, 38 B to D, 40 A to D, subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders 111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements equity.
The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of IAS 7, Statement of cash ows the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grants vesting period.
Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes Taxation in accounting estimates and errors Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, Related party disclosures and the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party transactions balance sheet date.
entered into between two or more members of a Group.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets Accounting convention and standards and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting considered recoverable against future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected Accounting principles and policies to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally expected to be realised or settled.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets accepted accounting principles requires management to make are not discounted.
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and Financial guarantees liabilities at the date of the balance sheet.
Actual amounts could Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf differ from those estimates.
of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value and amortised over the life of the guarantee.
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the companys accounting policies approved by the Board and Legal and other disputes described in Note B.
These policies have been consistently applied, The company provides for anticipated settlement costs where unless otherwise stated.
an outow of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising from claims against the company.
At 31 December 2017 provisions for legal and other disputes amounted to 27 million 2016 23 million.
