GLOSSARY A CO intensity factor H 2 Scope 1 and 2 carbon dioxide equivalent AGM metric, reported as kilogrammes per HPSP Annual General Meeting.
AMG CPI HSE Advanced Manufacturing Group Consumer Price Index.
combines the precision engineering and manufacturing capabilities in Huntings US CTR I segment for the Electronics division Currency translation reserve.
Hunting Innova, Hunting Specialty and IAS Hunting Dearborn product lines.
is aiming to become a leading single source of MWD LWD tools.
DEFRA IFRIC UK Department for Environment, Food International Financial Reporting API & Rural Affairs.
Diluted EPS IKTVA Average gross capital employed Diluted earnings per share calculated The in-Kingdom total value add See NGM O. bydividing earnings from continuing programme created by Saudi Aramco to operations before amortisation and baseline, measure and support increased B exceptional items attributable to Ordinary levels of localisation in the Kingdom.
shareholders by the weighted average Basic EPS number of Ordinary shares in issue during IFRS Basic earnings per share calculated by the year, as adjusted for all potentially International Financial Reporting Standards dividing the earnings from continuing dilutive Ordinary shares.
as adopted by the European Union.
operations before amortisation and exceptional items attributable to Ordinary Dividend cover Incident rate shareholders by the weighted average See NGM N. The US Occupational Safety and Health number of Ordinary shares in issue during Administration OSHA Recordable the year.
Downhole Incident Rate or Incident Rate is Downhole refers to something that is calculated by multiplying the number of bbl located within the wellbore.
recordable incidents by 200,000 and then Barrel of oil one barrel of oil equals dividing that number by the number of 159litres or 42 US gallons.
See NGM M. BOE Intensity factor Barrel of oil equivalent.
E The total controlled Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions divided by the total revenue of bn EBITDA the Group.
Internal manufacturing reject rate C ESOP Percentage of parts rejected during the Executive Share Option Plan.
F Inventory days See NGM D. CAGR FRC Compound annual revenue growth rate.
Capital employed Free cash flow See NGM G. See NGM L. IP Intellectual Property.
Capital investment Capex FVLCD See NGM J.
Fair value less costs of disposal.
K GAAP CO Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Gearing CO e See NGM H. kWh 2 Carbon dioxide equivalent.
Growth capital investment See NGM J.
HUNTING PLC 162 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION L P T Lean p Trade receivable days A production practice that eliminates Pence.
See NGM E. wasteful processes, thereby reducing production time and costs, and PCB TSR improvingefficiency.
Total Shareholder Return the net share price change plus the dividends paid LNG PCE during that period.
U LPG PPE Liquefied Petroleum Gas.
Underlying Results for the year, as reported under LTIP PSI IFRS, adjusted for amortisation of Long-Term Incentive Plan.
acquired intangible assets and exceptional items, which is the basis used by the M PSP Directors in assessing performance.
Wellbore mcf Recordable incidents The wellbore refers to the drilled hole.
An incident is recordable if it results in any of the following: death, days away from Well completion mmBtu work, restricted work or transfer to Well completion refers to the processes Million British thermal units.
another job, medical treatment beyond of preparing a well for production.
This first aid, or loss of consciousness.
Also involves the assembly of downhole MWD LWD included are any significant injuries or tubulars and equipment required to enable  Loggingillnesses diagnosed by a physician or safe and efficient production from an oil while-drilling.
other licensed health care professional, or gas well.
even if it does not result in death, days N away from work, restricted work or job Well construction transfer, medical treatment beyond first Well construction refers to the initial Net debt aid, or loss of consciousness.
drilling and processes of constructing the See note 22. wellbore in an oil and gas well.
These Replacement capital investment processes typically include drilling and NGM See NGM J. logging the hole: running, cementing and Non-GAAP measure see pages 153 to logging the casing: hydraulic fracturing or 157.
ROCE stimulating the well and monitoring well See NGM O. performance and integrity.
S Well intervention Well intervention refers to any operation NYMEX Scope 1 carried out on an oil or gas well that New York Mercantile Exchange.
Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG maintains or enhances the production emissions from sources that are owned of the well or provides well diagnostics.
O or controlled by the entity.
Scope 1 emissions include fossil fuels burned on Working capital OCI site, emissions from vehicles and other See NGM C. Other comprehensive income.
WTI OCTG Scope 2 West Texas Intermediate the price per Oil Country Tubular Goods pipe and Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG barrel of Texas light sweet crude oil.
tubular goods and products used in the emissions resulting from the generation Non-GAAP measure.
oiland gas industry, such as drill pipe, of electricity, heating and cooling or pipe casing and production pipes.
steam generated off site but purchased by the entity.
SHARP Safety and Health Achievement OPEC Recognition Programme.
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries.
HUNTING PLC 163 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
