233 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared under UK GAAP including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework Directors statements of responsibilities in relation to the companys financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company, Disclosure of information to auditors GlaxoSmithKline plc, financial statements and the Remuneration The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have each report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
confirmed that: UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors of which the companys auditors are unaware: and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the of that information.
parent company financial statements unless they are satisfied that This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. company and its profit or loss for that period.
Going concern basis In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Having assessed the principal risks and other matters considered in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them connection with the viability statement, the Directors considered it consistently: appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable preparing the financial statements.
and prudent: The UK Corporate Governance Code state with regard to the parent company financial statements that The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in company financial statements: and the Corporate Governance section on pages 79 to 112.
The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless balanced and understandable, and provides the information it is inappropriate to presume that the parent company will necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and continue in business.
performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting As required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, the records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys auditors have considered the Directors statement of compliance in transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that which are specified for their review.
the parent company financial statements and Remuneration report on pages 113 to 141 comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Philip Hampton Chairman The parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, comprising the balance sheet for the year 12 March 2018 ended 31 December 2017 and supporting notes, are set out on pages 239 to 242 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent company financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report on pages 234 to 238.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed form and made available on our website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
The Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report, which represent the management report, include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
