162 GSK Annual Report 2017 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Presentation of the financial statements Description of business The financial statements have been prepared in accordance GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged in the with the Groups accounting policies approved by the Board creation and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of and described in Note 2, Accounting principles and policies.
pharmaceutical products, vaccines, over-the-counter OTC Information on the application of these accounting policies, medicines and health-related consumer products.
GSKs principal including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, pharmaceutical products include medicines in the following Key accounting judgements and estimates.
therapeutic areas: respiratory, HIV, immuno-inflammation, anti-virals, The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, generally accepted accounting principles requires management anti-bacterials, dermatology and rare diseases.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Compliance with applicable law and IFRS amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
Implementation of new accounting standards and interpretations The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued An agenda decision by the IFRS Interpretations Committee in by the International Accounting Standards Board.
September 2017 clarified that charges for interest on tax should be reported within finance expense and certain penalties on tax Composition of financial statements settlements should be reported within administrative expenses.
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, Previously GSK had reported these charges within the overall tax the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance charge in the income statement or other comprehensive income, with IFRS accounting presentation.
The financial statements as appropriate.
comprise: GSK has adopted the revised basis of reporting in 2017 and, as Consolidated income statement a result of a number of settlements during the year, has recorded Consolidated statement of comprehensive income credits for interest on tax for 2017 of 24 million in finance expense.
There were no material charges for penalties on settlements during Consolidated balance sheet 2017 that required adjustment.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity Accrued interest payable on tax at 31 December 2017 was Consolidated cash flow statement 52 million, and this is included within trade and other payables on the Group balance sheet.
The impact on prior years was not Notes to the financial statements.
material and so prior year amounts have not been restated.
Composition of the Group Financial period A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion of These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January to the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net assets 31 December 2017, with comparative figures for the financial years of the Group is given in Note 44, Principal Group companies.
from 1 January to 31 December 2016 and, where appropriate, from Accounting principles and policies 1 January to 31 December 2015.
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical Parent company financial statements cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK accounting presentation.
The company balance sheet is presented on page 239 and the accounting policies are given on page 240.
Accounting principles and policies Consolidation Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over, and The consolidated financial statements include: rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities are accounted for as joint ventures.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, control over an arrangement, but has rights to specified assets of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts and obligations for specified liabilities of the arrangement, the the Groups share of the results and net assets of associates and arrangement is accounted for as a joint operation.
Where the Group joint ventures has the ability to exercise significant influence over entities, they are accounted for as associates.
The results and assets and liabilities of the Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated of joint operations.
financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up Groups rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint to 31 December each year.
operations are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with those rights and obligations.
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for Group acquires control and interests sold are fide-consolidated from as subsidiaries.
