162 GSK Annual Report 2017 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Presentation of the financial statements Description of business The financial statements have been prepared in accordance GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged in the with the Groups accounting policies approved by the Board creation and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of and described in Note 2, Accounting principles and policies.
pharmaceutical products, vaccines, over-the-counter OTC Information on the application of these accounting policies, medicines and health-related consumer products.
GSKs principal including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, pharmaceutical products include medicines in the following Key accounting judgements and estimates.
therapeutic areas: respiratory, HIV, immuno-inflammation, anti-virals, The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, generally accepted accounting principles requires management anti-bacterials, dermatology and rare diseases.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Compliance with applicable law and IFRS amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
Implementation of new accounting standards and interpretations The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued An agenda decision by the IFRS Interpretations Committee in by the International Accounting Standards Board.
September 2017 clarified that charges for interest on tax should be reported within finance expense and certain penalties on tax Composition of financial statements settlements should be reported within administrative expenses.
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, Previously GSK had reported these charges within the overall tax the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance charge in the income statement or other comprehensive income, with IFRS accounting presentation.
The financial statements as appropriate.
comprise: GSK has adopted the revised basis of reporting in 2017 and, as Consolidated income statement a result of a number of settlements during the year, has recorded Consolidated statement of comprehensive income credits for interest on tax for 2017 of 24 million in finance expense.
There were no material charges for penalties on settlements during Consolidated balance sheet 2017 that required adjustment.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity Accrued interest payable on tax at 31 December 2017 was Consolidated cash flow statement 52 million, and this is included within trade and other payables on the Group balance sheet.
The impact on prior years was not Notes to the financial statements.
material and so prior year amounts have not been restated.
Composition of the Group Financial period A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion of These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January to the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net assets 31 December 2017, with comparative figures for the financial years of the Group is given in Note 44, Principal Group companies.
from 1 January to 31 December 2016 and, where appropriate, from Accounting principles and policies 1 January to 31 December 2015.
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical Parent company financial statements cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK accounting presentation.
The company balance sheet is presented on page 239 and the accounting policies are given on page 240.
Accounting principles and policies Consolidation Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over, and The consolidated financial statements include: rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities are accounted for as joint ventures.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, control over an arrangement, but has rights to specified assets of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts and obligations for specified liabilities of the arrangement, the the Groups share of the results and net assets of associates and arrangement is accounted for as a joint operation.
Where the Group joint ventures has the ability to exercise significant influence over entities, they are accounted for as associates.
The results and assets and liabilities of the Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated of joint operations.
financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up Groups rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint to 31 December each year.
operations are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with those rights and obligations.
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for Group acquires control and interests sold are fide-consolidated from as subsidiaries.
163 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2.
Accounting principles and policies continued Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated and Revenue no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries until the Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or products are sold to customers outside the Group.
The relevant services are supplied or made available to external customers against proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, joint orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the customer, operations and associates is also deferred until the products are reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions and all relevant sold to third parties.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are obligations have been fulfilled, such that the earnings process is recorded directly in equity.
Deferred tax relief on unrealised intraregarded as being complete.
Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of recoverable.
discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated future Business combinations rebates and returns.
The methodology and assumptions used to Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in accounting method.
Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
experience and projected market conditions.
Market conditions are The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market includes the fair value of any contingent consideration.
Where the research data and internally generated information.
Value added tax consideration transferred, together with the non-controlling interest, and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
exceeds the fair value of the net assets, liabilities and contingent Where the Group co-promotes a product and the counterparty liabilities acquired, the excess is recorded as goodwill.
The costs records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as coof acquisition are charged to the income statement in the period in promotion income within turnover.
The nature of co-promotion which they are incurred.
activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and 16 million 2016 9 million: 2015 14 million.
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation or event-based milestone income excluding royalty income arising acquired.
on development or marketing collaborations of the Groups compounds or products with other parties is recognised in turnover.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net assets No such income is included in turnover for all the periods presented.
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the noncontrolling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the nonExpenditure controlling interests share of the net assets of the subsidiary, on a Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received case-by-case basis.
Changes in the Groups ownership percentage when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity.
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably Foreign currency translation estimated.
Manufacturing start-up costs between validation and the Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency achievement of normal production are expensed as incurred.
of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the date of Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are statement as incurred.
Shipment costs on inter-company transfers retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling are charged to cost of sales: distribution costs on sales to customers at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are included in the are included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill, appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and has been undertaken.
joint ventures are translated into Sterling using average rates of exchange.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the Groups net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate component of equity.
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, adjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels.
Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated income statement.
164 GSK Annual Report 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting principles and policies continued Research and development Employee share plans Research and development expenditure is charged to the income Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development share option and share award schemes.
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and charged market and approval is considered highly probable.
Property, plant to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
and equipment used for research and development is capitalised The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company and depreciated in accordance with the Groups policy.
shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when employees Environmental expenditure exercise their options or awards.
Costs of running the ESOP Trusts Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting are charged to the income statement.
Shares held by the ESOP from past or current operations and from which no current or future Trusts are deducted from other reserves.
A transfer is made between benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement.
The Group other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting periods of the recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably related share options or awards to reflect the ultimate proceeds estimated.
This liability includes the Groups portion of the total costs receivable from employees on exercise.
and also a portion of other potentially responsible parties costs Property, plant and equipment when it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their respective Property, plant and equipment PP&E is stated at the cost of shares of the clean-up obligation.
Recoveries of reimbursements are purchase or construction, less provisions for depreciation and recorded as assets when virtually certain.
Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of Legal and other disputes qualifying assets in construction.
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value of other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources is PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over the considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely expected useful life.
Residual values and lives are reviewed, and outcome.
In addition, provision is made for legal or other expenses where appropriate adjusted annually.
The normal expected useful arising from claims received or other disputes.
In respect of product lives of the major categories of PP&E are: liability claims related to certain products, there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years In certain cases, an incurred but not reported IBNR actuarial Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years technique is used to determine this estimate.
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation proceedings.
In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the cases would be included but no provision would be made.
Costs net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
associated with claims made by the Group against third parties are Leases charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the Pensions and other post-employment benefits benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright.
The assets are calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over included in PP&E or computer software and the capital elements of the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance employees services, consistent with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis Pension obligations are measured as the present value of estimated consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term, if shorter.
future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields of high The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income quality corporate bonds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at statement.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental costs fair value at the balance sheet date.
are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over Goodwill the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments.
Goodwill is deemed employees services, in accordance with the advice of qualified to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at least actuaries.
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entitys assets, assumptions, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid, income in the year in which they arise.
this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income statement.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement as incurred.
165 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2.
Accounting principles and policies continued Other intangible assets Available-for-sale investments Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation Liquid investments and other investments are classified as availableand impairments.
for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately dates to fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are investments are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding Impairments arising from the significant or prolonged decline in fair 20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time they are available value of an equity investment reduce the carrying amount of the asset for use.
The estimated useful lives for determining the amortisation directly and are charged to the income statement.
charge take into account patent lives, where applicable, as well as the value obtained from periods of non-exclusivity.
Asset lives are On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted, annually.
Contingent losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income milestone payments are recognised at the point that the contingent are reclassified to the income statement.
Dividends on equity event becomes probable.
Any development costs incurred by the investments are recognised in the income statement when the Group and associated with acquired licences, patents, know-how Groups right to receive payment is established.
Equity investments or marketing rights are written off to the income statement when are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be incurred, unless the criteria for recognition of an internally generated sold within one year.
intangible asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on the made in a major market and approval is considered highly probable.
trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of investments are accounted for on settlement date.
businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a value Inventories which is substantial and long term and where the brands either are Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately from the rest cost including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and of the businesses acquired.
Brands are amortised over their related production overheads and net realisable value.
Cost is estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where it is considered generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
Pre-launch inventory that the useful economic life is indefinite.
is held as an asset when there is a high probability of regulatory approval for the product.
Before that point a provision is made The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal against the carrying value to its recoverable amount: the provision is use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as intangible then reversed at the point when a high probability of regulatory fixed assets where the software or site supports a significant approval is determined.
business system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset.
ERP systems software is amortised over seven to Trade receivables ten years and other computer software over three to five years.
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any Impairment of non-current assets provisions for doubtful debts.
Provisions are made where there is The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger cash previous experience and general economic conditions.
When a trade generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets might be receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, firstly impaired.
Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite against any provision available and then to the income statement.
useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are are tested for impairment annually.
Any provision for impairment is credited to the income statement.
Long-term receivables are charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
discounted where the effect is material.
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed.
Impairment losses on other Borrowings non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a change in All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds estimates used to determine recoverable amounts and only to the received, net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently extent that the revised recoverable amounts do not exceed the carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds, carrying values that would have existed, net of depreciation or net of transaction costs, and the amount due on redemption being amortisation, had no impairments been recognised.
recognised as a charge to the income statement over the period of Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint operations the relevant borrowing.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at the Groups share of their net assets at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition.
The Group recognises its rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint operations.
