267 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Shareholder information Share capital and control Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares held Share buy-back programme in Treasury as at 31 December 2017 can be found in Note 33 to the The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares financial statements, Share capital and share premium account.
under Article 9 of the companys Articles of Association.
The power under Article 9 and the authority for the company to make purchases Our Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange of its own shares are subject to shareholder authorities which are and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE sought on an annual basis at our Annual General Meeting AGM.
in the form of American Depositary Shares ADS.
Each ADS Any shares purchased by the company may be cancelled or held as represents two Ordinary Shares.
For details of listed debt and Treasury shares or used for satisfying share options and grants under where it is listed refer to Note 31 to the financial statements, Group employee share plans.
Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority dividends when declared, the companys Annual Report, to attend renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2017, when the and speak at general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just under and to exercise voting rights.
Details of shares purchased, those cancelled, There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the holding, those held as Treasury shares and those subsequently transferred of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements to obtain approval from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Groups employee share prior to any transfers.
No Ordinary Shares or ADS carry any special plans are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements, Share rights with regard to control of the company and there are no capital and share premium account.
Major shareholders have the same In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company voting rights per share as all other shareholders.
There are no considers the development of free cash flow during the year.
Given known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a the impact of the sustained strength of Sterling on free cash flow, person other than the holder of the shares and no known the company suspended its share repurchase programme during agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
No shares were purchased during the financial years ended Shares acquired through the Groups employee share plans rank 2015, 2016 or 2017. equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
The company confirms that it does not currently intend to make The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts have any market purchases in 2018.
The company will review the waived their rights to dividends on shares held by those trusts.
potential for future share buy-backs during 2019 in line with Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders its usual annual cycle and subject to return and ratings criteria.
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in force Market capitalisation from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, decrees The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding or regulations in force in the UK restricting the import or export of Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2017 was 65.57 billion.
capital or affecting the remittance of dividends or other payments to At that date, GSK was the sixth largest company by market holders of the companys shares who are non-residents of the UK.
capitalisation in the FTSE index.
Similarly, other than certain economic sanctions which may be in force from time to time, there are no limitations relating only to Share price 2017 2016 2015 non-residents of the UK under English law or the companys Articles of Association on the right to be a holder of, and to vote At 1 January 15.62 13.73 13.76 in respect of, the companys shares.
At 31 December 13.23 15.62 13.73 Interests in voting rights Decrease increase 15.3 % 13.8% 0.2 % Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no High during the year 17.22 17.23 16.42 persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
Low during the year 12.76 13.44 12.38 Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency The table above sets out the middle market closing prices.
The Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and companys share price decreased by 15.3% in 2017.
This compares on the companys website, www.
with an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 7.6% during the year.
The share price on 2 March 2018 was 12.90.
The company had received notifications in accordance with the FCAs DTRs of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights in the companys issued share capital: UK US$ 31 December 2017 2 March 2018 18 75 Percentage Percentage 17 70 No.
of of issued 16 65 shares capital % shares capital % 60 15 BlackRock, Inc 348,457,982 7.03 338,195,351 6.82 55 14 Percentage of Ordinary shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares.
13 50 We have not acquired or disposed of any interests in our own 12 45 shares during the period under review, with the exception of those 11 40 transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Groups 35 10 employee share plans.
09 30 31 12 14 31 12 15 31 12 16 31 12 17 UK share price UK US ADS price US$ 268 GSK Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information continued Share capital and control continued Nature of trading market The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the London Stock Exchange, and the high and low closing prices in US dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares representing the companys ADS programme, which is managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY Nominees Limited.
At 2 March 2018, BNY Nominees Limited held 931,975,461 Ordinary Shares representing 18.79% of the issued share capital excluding Treasury shares at that date.
At 2 March 2018, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 1,007 with holdings of 1,093,635 Ordinary Shares, and the number of registered holders of ADS was 465,987,730 with holdings of 22,275 ADS.
Certain of these Ordinary Shares and ADS were held by brokers or other nominees.
As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
269 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Dividends The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return cash to shareholders through its dividend policy.
Dividends remain an essential component of total shareholder return and GSK recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders.
The company aims to distribute regular dividend payments that will be determined primarily with reference to the free cash flow generated by the business after funding the investment necessary to support the Groups future growth.
The Board intends to maintain the dividend for 2018 at the current level of 80p per share, subject to any material change in the external environment or performance expectations.
Over time, as free cash flow strengthens, it intends to build free cash flow cover of the annual dividend to a target range of 1.25-1.50x, before returning the dividend to growth.
Details of the dividends declared, the amounts and the payment dates are given in Note 16 to the financial statements, Dividends.
Dividends per share Dividend calendar The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS for the Ex-dividend Quarter date Record date Payment date last five years.
The dividend per ADS is translated into US dollars at Q4 2017 22 February 2018 23 February 2018 12 April 2018 applicable exchange rates.
An annual fee of $0.02 per ADS or $0.005 per ADS per quarter will be charged by the Depository.
The cumulative dividend receivable by ADS holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2017 was $1.51.
The 2015 special dividend related to the return of part of the net cash proceeds from the Novartis transaction completed in March 2015.
This was paid with the fourth quarter ordinary dividend for 2015.
Financial calendar Results announcements Event Date Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange Quarter 1 Results announcement April 2018 and are available on its news service.
They are also sent to the Annual General Meeting May 2018 US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE, issued Quarter 2 Results announcement July 2018 to the media and made available on our website.
Quarter 3 Results announcement October 2018 Financial reports Preliminary Quarter 4 Results announcement February 2019 The company publishes an Annual Report which is made available Annual Report publication February March 2019 on our website from the date of publication.
Shareholders may Annual Report distribution March 2019 elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification by Information about the company, including the share price, is available email of the publication of financial reports by registering on on our website at www.
Information made available on the www.
website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on our website.
Printed copies can be obtained from our registrar in the UK see page 272 for the contact details.
270 GSK Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information continued Annual General Meeting 2018 2.30pm UK time on 3 May 2018 ADS holders wishing to attend the meeting should contact BNY The Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, Mellon, as Depositary, to request a proxy appointment.
enable them to attend and vote on the business to be transacted.
ADS holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the way in which the The AGM is the companys principal forum for communication shares represented by their ADS should be voted by completing and with private shareholders.
In addition to the formal business, returning the voting card provided by the Depositary.
there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of the Group and its future development.
There will be an opportunity Documents on display for questions to be asked to the Board.
Chairmen of the Boards The Articles of Association of the company and Directors service Committees will take questions relating to those Committees.
contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment between Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries and any side Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange letters relating to severance terms and pension arrangements are with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of available for inspection at the companys registered office and will their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
be made available for inspection at the AGM.
Tax information for shareholders A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax Taxation of capital gains consequences for holders of shares and ADS who are citizens of the UK resident shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the UK or the US is set out below.
It is not a complete analysis of all the disposal of shares or ADS.
possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of For disposals by individuals from the 2016 17 UK tax year onwards, these securities.
It is intended only as a general guide.
Holders are a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or ADS will be advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax taxed at 10% for basic rate taxpayers, or 20% if, after all allowable consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares deductions, the individuals taxable income for the year exceeds the or ADS and the consequences under state and local tax laws in basic rate income tax limit.
Note this is following the use of any the US and the implications of the current UK US tax conventions.
exceptions available to the individual taxpayer such as the annual exempt amount.
US holders of ADS generally will be treated as the owners of the underlying shares for the purposes of the current US UK double Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation allowance taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent that such gains Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention, arise due to inflation.
Indexation allowance may reduce a chargeable and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended gain but will not create an allowable loss.
For assets acquired on or the Code.
before 1 January 2018, legislation in the Finance Bill No.
2 2017-19 UK shareholders freezes the level of indexation allowance that is given in calculating a This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds companys chargeable gains at the value that would apply to the shares as capital assets.
disposal of an asset in December 2017.
For assets acquired from 1 January 2018 onwards, legislation in the Finance Bill No.
2 Taxation of dividends 2017-19 removes any indexation allowance on disposal.
For UK tax years from 2016 17 UK resident individuals are entitled to a dividend tax allowance of up to 5,000, so that the first 5,000 of Inheritance tax dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax.
This allowance will Individual UK-domiciled or otherwise shareholders may be liable reduce to 2,000 from the 2018 19 UK tax year onwards.
Dividends to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADS.
Tax may in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for basic rate be charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholders taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% for additional estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of lifetime gift or rate taxpayers.
other disposal at less than full market value.
In the case of a bequest on death, tax may be charged on the value of the shares at the UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should note date of the shareholders death.
If such a gift or other disposal that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally entitled to were subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, exemption from corporation tax.
the Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK.
271 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Tax information for shareholders continued Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the US UK stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject to federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 40.8%.
Some certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate of types of dividends are automatically excluded from being qualified 0.5% rounded up to the nearest 5 in the case of stamp duty of the dividends, even if they meet the other requirements.
These include consideration for the transfer.
Notwithstanding this, provided that an but are not limited to : instrument is executed in pursuance of the agreement that gave rise 1.
Capital gains distributions to the charge to SDRT and that instrument is stamped within six 2.
Dividends on bank deposits years of the agreement including being stamped as exempt any SDRT charge should be cancelled and any SDRT which has already 3.
D ividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock been paid will be repaid.
Ownership Plan ESOP US shareholders 4.
Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations This summary only applies to a shareholder who is a citizen or resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that is US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified dividends otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in may vary and would be assessed in addition to the federal tax rates respect of the shares or ADS that holds shares or ADS as capital communicated above.
assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not Taxation of capital gains hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders other disposal of shares or ADS.
Such gains will be long-term capital that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt gains subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual holders if entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, the shares or ADS were held for more than one year, from the date persons that hold shares or ADS as part of an integrated investment the shares were vested released.
Short-term capital gains can be including a straddle comprised of a share or ADS and one or more subject to taxation of rates of up to 40.8%, whereas long-term capital other positions, and persons that own directly or indirectly 10% gains may be subject to rates of up to 23.8%.
State and local tax or more of the voting stock of the company, nor does it address tax rates on capital gains may also apply.
treatment that may be applicable as a result of international income Information reporting and backup withholding tax treaties.
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or Taxation of dividends ADS, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be dividend income for US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for the dividend subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation received deduction allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADS or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identification number are payable in US dollars: dividends on shares are payable in and certifies that no loss of exemption has occurred.
Dividends paid in Sterling will be included in income in the holders generally are not subject to information reporting or backup US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on withholding, but may be required to provide a certification of their the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Subject to certain non-US status in connection with payments received.
Any amounts exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual eligible withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holders US US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 23.8% federal income tax liability provided the required information is in respect of qualified dividends.
A qualified dividend as defined by furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
the US Internal Revenue Service IRS is a dividend that meets the Estate and gift taxes following criteria: Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
Must be issued by a US corporation, a corporation incorporated in a US possession, or a corporation that is eligible for the Stamp duty benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty deemed UK stamp duty and or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, satisfactory, as published by the IRS.
be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADS custodian or 2.
T he dividends are not listed with the IRS as dividends that do depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration not qualify.
provided if transferred on sale, or their value if transferred for no consideration.
The required dividend holding period has been met.
The shares must have been owned by you for more than 60 days of the However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the transfer holding period which is defined as the 121-day period that of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS.
begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or the day in which the stock trades without the dividend priced in.
For example, if a stocks ex-dividend date is 1 October, the shares must be held for more than 60 days in the period between 2 August and 30 November of that year in order to count as a qualified dividend.
272 GSK Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information continued Shareholder services and contacts Registrar The companys registrar is: Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA www.
co. uk Tel: 0371 384 2991 in the UK Tel: 44 0 121 415 7067 outside the UK Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders: Service What it offers How to participate Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may choose A DRIP election form can be downloaded DRIP to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares.
co. uk or requested by contacting Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your bank If you currently receive your dividends by cheque through the A dividend bank mandate form can be account Bank Mandate post, you can instead have them paid directly into your bank downloaded from www.
co. uk or building society account.
This is quicker, more secure and or requested by contacting Equiniti.
avoids the risk of your cheque going astray.
Dividend payment direct to bank Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, For more details on this service and the costs account for overseas shareholders Equiniti will convert your dividend into your local currency involved please contact Equiniti.
and send it direct to your local bank account.
This service is available in over 100 countries worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications of You can register at www.
co. uk company communications including our Annual Report, dividend payments if paid by way of a Bank Mandate, access to electronic tax vouchers and the availability of online voting for all general meetings.
Each time GSK mails out hard copy shareholder documents you will receive an email containing a link to the document or relevant website.
Shareview portfolio service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view your You can register at www.
co. uk share balance and movements, update your address and dividend payment instructions and register your votes for our AGM.
Duplicate publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of this report or other mailings, Please contact Equiniti.
please contact Equiniti and they will arrange for your accounts to be merged into one for your convenience and to avoid waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated form For internet transactions, please log on to or held in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, by internet, www.
please note that market trading hours telephone or by a postal dealing service provided by Equiniti For telephone transactions, please call are from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, Financial Services Limited.
0345 603 7037 in the UK or Monday to Friday excluding public 44 0 121 415 7560 outside the UK.
holidays in England and Wales For postal transactions, please call 0371 384 2991 to request a dealing form.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without requiring An application form can be requested a share certificate.
The service provides a facility for you to hold from www.
co. uk or by your shares in a nominee account sponsored by the company.
You will continue to receive dividend payments, annual reports and can attend and vote at the companys general meetings.
Shareholders names do not appear on the publicly available share register and the service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts ISAs The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Details are available from www.
co. uk Limited to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK or can be requested by telephoning Equiniti, Ordinary Shares.
Lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm for dealing, and until 6.00pm for enquiries Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
UK lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
273 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Shareholders services and contacts continued ADS Depositary Contacts Investor relations The ADS programme is administered by The Bank of New Investor relations may be contacted as follows: York Mellon: UK BNY Mellon Shareowner Services 980 Great West Road PO Box 505000 Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS Louisville, KY 40233-5000 Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 Overnight correspondence should be sent to: US BNY Mellon Shareowner Services 5 Crescent Drive 462 South 4th Street, Suite 1600 Philadelphia PA 19112 Louisville, KY 40202 Tel: 1 888 825 5249 US toll free www.
com Tel: 1 215 751 4611 outside the US Tel: 1 877 353 1154 US toll free GSK Response Center Tel: 1 201 680 6825 outside the US Tel: 1 888 825 5249 US toll free email: shrrelations@.
com Share scam alert The Depositary also provides Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy purchase sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADS holders.
your shares, please take extra care.
The caller may be part of a For details of how to enrol please visit www.
com or highly organised financial scam.
call the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack.
If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial Conduct Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham Authority for further information on this, or other similar activities, Corporate PEPs at www.
uk consumers or on its consumer helpline: The Share Centre Limited Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ Tel: 0800 111 6768 in the UK Tel: 44 0 1296 414 141 Tel: 44 0 20 7066 1000 outside the UK www.
com Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, except UK public holidays, and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.
Donating shares to Save the Children In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership with Responsible Business Supplement Save the Children to share our expertise and resources with the We are publishing our Responsible Business Supplement 2017 aim of helping to save the lives of one million children.
This will outline GSKs approach to, and performance in, our key responsible business areas: Health for all, Our behaviour, Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which Our people and Our planet.
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to Save the Children.
Donated shares will be aggregated and sold by Save the Children who will use the funds raised to help them reach the above goal.
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar, Equiniti, which is managing the donation and sale of UK shares to Save the Children free of charge.
