227 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 45.
Legal proceedings The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative Intellectual property proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, tax, Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity and anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related private enforceability of the Groups patents on various products or litigation.
The most significant of these matters, other than tax processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those matters, are described below.
The Group makes provision for these patents.
A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent proceedings on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, protection for the product at issue.
The consequences of any such Accounting principles and policies and Note 29, Other provisions.
loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that product and could materially affect future results of operations for the Group.
The Group may become involved in significant legal proceedings in respect of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the Flovent HFA expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate On 15 February 2017, the Group received a Paragraph IV resolution of the proceedings.
In these cases, appropriate certification from Teva for Flovent HFA.
This was the first Paragraph disclosures about such cases would be included in this note, IV certification the Group had received from a generic but no provision would be made for the cases.
pharmaceutical company seeking to make an AB rated version of Flovent HFA.
Three patents are at issue.
Teva alleged that its generic With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, version of Flovent did not infringe two patents directed to actuation other than those for which a provision has been made, the Group is indicators metered dose listed in the Orange Book.
Teva also unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect at alleged that U. S. Patent No.
6,743, 413 413 patent which claims a this stage.
The Group does not believe that information about the method of treatment with a formulation containing an active amount sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful medication and a propellant known as 134a, substantially free of with respect to those legal proceedings.
This is due to a number of surfactant, and its use in the hydrouoroalkane HFA metered dose factors, including, but not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the inhalers for Flovent is not valid.
After reviewing the Teva complaint, entitlement of parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories the Group did not sue Teva under the 413 patent and asked the FDA of liability, damages and governing law.
to remove the 413 patent from the Orange Book.
Teva produced Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are evidence showing that it did not infringe the dose counter patents.
charged to selling, general and administration costs.
Provisions On 20 June 2017, the Group withdrew the case against Teva.
are made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice, where an outow of resources is considered probable and a reliable Bexsero Men B vaccines estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute.
For certain Following its acquisition of the Novartis Vaccines business, the product liability claims, the Group will make a provision where there Group took over patent litigation originally filed by Novartis against is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable Pfizer, Inc. Pfizer in the UK, Italy and the United States related to management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required meningococcal B Men B vaccines.
In various cases, Novartis had to cover unasserted claims.
At 31 December 2017, the Groups alleged that European patents owned by Pfizer were not infringed by aggregate provision for legal and other disputes not including tax the Groups vaccine, Bexsero and were invalid.
Novartis had also matters described in Note 14, Taxation was 186 million.
The filed suit against Pfizer for patent infringement, alleging that Pfizers ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts provided sale of its vaccine, Trumenba, infringes Novartis patents related to and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, Men B vaccines.
Pfizer had filed suit against the Group in the UK investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
seeking to invalidate six UK patents owned by the Group that have relevance to Trumenba and in Canada for infringement of a patent The Groups position could change over time, and, therefore, there covering Trumenba.
On 24 April 2017, the Group and Pfizer entered can be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of into a confidential global settlement resolving all matters that permits any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the each company to manufacture and sell their respective Men B amount of the provisions reported in the Groups financial vaccines.
If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations of the Group in the reporting period in which the judgements are incurred or the settlements entered into.
228 GSK Annual Report 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 45.
Legal proceedings continued Dolutegravir Tivicay Triumeq DOC Generici filed an action in September 2016 in the Court of In September and October, 2017, ViiV Healthcare received patent Rome seeking a declaration that the Italian SPC covering Kivexa challenge letters under the Hatch-Waxman Act from Lupin, Mylan, was invalid because it is based upon the invalid lamivudine and Cipla and Dr. Reddys Labs for Triumeq, and from Cipla, Dr. Reddys, abacavir combination patent.
ViiV Healthcare has counterclaimed for Apotex and Sandoz for Tivicay and Triumeq.
ViiV Healthcare lists two infringement of the Italian SPC.
The trial in this action is to be heard patents for dolutegravir, the active ingredient in Tivicay and one of the in Q3 2018. active ingredients in Triumeq, in the FDA Orange Book.
One patent, In June 2017, Biogaran commenced proceedings in France seeking covering the molecule dolutegravir, expires on 5 October 2027.
A revocation of the French SPC covering Kivexa.
No trial date has been second patent, claiming a certain crystal form of dolutegravir, expires set for this action.
All the letters challenged only the patent for In Portugal, ViiV Healthcare initiated arbitration proceedings against the crystal form.
Some generic companies alleged that the crystal Farmoz under the SPC covering Kivexa.
Farmoz had filed for form patent is not valid.
Others challenged validity and asserted that marketing approval for a generic version of Kivexa.
No arbitration their proposed product would not infringe the crystal form patent.
date has yet been scheduled in this action.
On 7 February 2017, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement suits against all the generic companies in the US District Court for the In February 2017, Kyowa Pharmaceuticals filed a nullity action District of Delaware.
Additionally, ViiV Healthcare also filed suit relating to Kivexa in Japan.
Oral hearing of the trial was held at the against certain of the generic companies in the US District Court for Japan Patent Office on 30 January 2018.
The decision of the Japan the District of New Jersey, and the US District Court for the District Patent Office is expected in 2018. of West Virginia.
No trial date has yet been set.
Lexiva On 7 February 2018, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement The US patent covering Lexiva expired on 24 December 2017 and litigation against Gilead Sciences Inc. Gilead over bictegravir in the product has paediatric exclusivity until 24 June 2018.
Pursuant to the US District Court for the District of Delaware US Patent No.
a settlement of litigation and confidential licence agreement, Mylan is 8,129,385 and the Canadian Federal Court Canadian Patent No.
presently selling a generic version of Lexiva in the US.
ViiV Healthcare alleges that Gileads triple combination HIV drug containing the HIV integrase inhibitor bictegravir infringes Product liability ViiV Healthcares patent covering dolutegravir and other compounds Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development that include dolutegravirs unique chemical scaffold.
In both the US of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of products and Canada, ViiV Healthcare seeks financial redress rather than for use by humans following approval by regulatory bodies.
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety issues may Kivexa become, or be claimed by some to be, evident.
The Group is Between Q1 2017 and Q1 2018, ViiV Healthcare reached currently a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits related confidential agreements with each of Vale Pharmaceuticals, Lupin, to the Groups Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare Sandoz, STADA and Zentiva to settle various challenges to the products.
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the validity of the Supplementary Protection Certificate SPC for the expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category patent covering the combination of lamivudine and abacavir for and has included a provision, as appropriate, for the matters below Kivexa and certain counterclaims brought by ViiV Healthcare for in the provision for legal and other disputes.
Matters for which the infringement of that SPC.
These settlements brought an end to Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, Other litigation and arbitration proceedings between ViiV Healthcare and provisions.
Lupin in Germany and Portugal, between ViiV Healthcare and STADA in Germany and Italy, between ViiV Healthcare and Sandoz in Austria, Germany, Portugal, Spain and Sweden, between ViiV Healthcare and Vale Pharmaceuticals in Portugal, and between ViiV Healthcare and Zentiva in Portugal.
229 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 45.
Legal proceedings continued Avandia Seroxat Paxil and Paxil CR The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging that of individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the use use of Paxil paroxetine has caused a variety of injuries.
Economic loss actions have also been filed seeking these lawsuits contain one or more of the following allegations: i restitution and penalties under consumer protection and other laws.
that use of Paxil during pregnancy caused congenital malformations, The federal cases filed against the Group are part of a multi-district persistent pulmonary hypertension or autism: ii that Paxil treatment litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court for the Eastern caused patients to commit suicidal or violent acts: and iii that the District of Pennsylvania the MDL Court.
Cases have also been Group failed to warn that patients could experience certain filed in a number of state courts.
In addition, the County of Santa symptoms on discontinuing Paxil treatment.
Clara, California, has brought an action on behalf of California Pregnancy residents which is pending in the MDL Court, alleging violations of The Group has reached agreements to settle the majority of the US Californias False Advertising Act and seeking restitution, damages, claims relating to the use of Paxil during pregnancy as of February and civil penalties.
2018, but a number of claims related to use during pregnancy are As of February 2018, there are five remaining personal injury cases still pending in various courts in the US.
Of these remaining lawsuits, on appeal from summary judgement decisions in favour of the Group there are three cases still pending in state court in California and one one in federal court in Pennsylvania and four in California state in federal court in California.
There is one case in state court in court.
Kentucky, one in state court in Oklahoma, and one lawsuit joining the claims of eight plaintiffs in state court in Illinois.
Other matters have There were four purported class actions in the US seeking economic been dismissed without payment.
damages on behalf of third party payers asserting claims under the Racketeer Inuenced and Corrupt Organizations Act RICO and The Singh action in Alberta, Canada, a proposed national class consumer protection laws.
Two plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their action, seeks to certify a class relating to birth defects generally.
On 7 December 2017, the MDL Court granted the Groups The Group is awaiting a hearing on the motion in Singh to certify motion for summary judgement on the two remaining plaintiffs the case as a class action.
Another Canadian class action, Jensen, claims.
Plaintiffs have filed an appeal of the decision in the US alleging claims of Paxil and other SSRI use and autism was filed in Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and a briefing schedule Saskatchewan in January 2017.
On 27 March 2017, court approval has been set.
was received for the settlement of Bartram, a third class action suit in British Columbia.
In the Santa Clara County action, the Group filed a motion for summary judgement on the basis of pre-emption and also is Acts of violence seeking partial summary judgement on the Countys restitution As of February 2018, there were six pending claims or cases claim.
On 7 December 2017, the MDL Court granted the Groups concerning allegations that patients who took paroxetine or Paxil motion.
The Countys claims for civil penalties remain pending committed or attempted to commit suicide or acts of violence: five before the MDL Court.
claims or cases are in the US and one case is in Canada.
One of the US cases, Dolin, involving the suicide of a man who allegedly There are 13 purported class actions in Canada, two of which are took generic paroxetine manufactured by Mylan, resulted in a active.
In the two active cases, class certification hearings were $3 million verdict for the plaintiff.
The Group has appealed the held.
In the Ontario action, the proceedings were adjourned.
On verdict to the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
7 December 2017, the Nova Scotia court issued an Order certifying a nationwide class of all users of Avandia.
The Group has filed an appeal of that class certification decision.
230 GSK Annual Report 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 45.
Legal proceedings continued Discontinuation SEC DOJ and SFO Anti-corruption enquiries In the UK, a long-pending group action alleges that Seroxat caused On 27 May 2014, the UK Serious Fraud Office SFO began a formal severe discontinuation symptoms.
In 2010, the Legal Services criminal investigation into the Groups commercial operations in a Commission LSC withdrew public funding from hundreds of number of countries, including China.
The Group is co-operating claimants, causing termination of most claims.
In 2015, the Legal with and responding to these requests.
The SFO inquiry followed Aid Agency formerly the LSC discharged the public funding investigations initiated by Chinas Ministry of Public Security in June certificate following a 2013 recommendation of its Special Cases 2013 the China Investigations which resulted in a ruling in 2014 Review Panel that these cases have poor prospects of success.
that, according to Chinese law, GSK China Investment Co. Ltd.
However, more recently, Fortitude Law was engaged with the GSKCI had offered money or property to non-government purpose of resurrecting the Seroxat group action, and obtained personnel in order to obtain improper commercial gains and GSKCI third-party funding for the experts and the 103 remaining claimants.
being found guilty of bribing non-government personnel.
The Group asked the court to require the third-party funder to On 30 September 2016, the Group reached a global resolution with provide security for the litigation costs in the event plaintiffs lose.
the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC regarding the On 8 December 2017, the High Court ruled in favour of the Group SECs investigation under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act on its application for an order that the claimants litigation funder FCPA into the Groups commercial practices in countries outside of give security for costs for a sum in excess of the total funding it had the US, including China.
As part of the resolution, the Group agreed committed to the case.
The trial of the action is scheduled to to pay a civil penalty of $20 million to the US Government.
Department of Justice DOJ confirmed that it had concluded its investigation into the Groups commercial practices and would take Zofran no action against the Group.
As part of the resolution with the SEC, Plaintiffs allege that their children suffered birth defects as a result the Group agreed to certain undertakings, including a period of of the mothers ingestion of Zofran and or generic ondansetron for self-monitoring and reporting.
The Groups obligations under that pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting.
Plaintiffs assert that the resolution continue through 30 September 2018.
Group sold Zofran knowing it was unsafe for pregnant women, failed to warn of the risks, and illegally marketed Zofran off-label for use In the course of its current inquiry, the SFO has requested additional by pregnant women.
As of February 2018, the Group is a defendant information from the Group regarding third party advisers engaged in 420 personal injury lawsuits in the US.
406 of the cases are part by the company in the course of the China Investigations.
The SEC of a multi-district litigation proceeding MDL in the District of and DOJ are also investigating these matters following the Groups Massachusetts.
reporting of the SFOs inquiries.
The Group is co-operating and responding to these requests.
The MDL cases are in discovery.
The MDL continues with monthly status conferences where issues such as the sufficiency of the The Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected pleadings and the scope of discovery will be addressed.
The Group financial effect of these investigations, and no provision has been continues to seek the dismissal of individual cases as appropriate.
The Brown case pending in Oregon is in discovery and is scheduled US Vaccines subpoena for trial in October 2018.
The remaining nine state court cases in On 25 February 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the US the US, eight of which are in California, are still in their early days.
Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York requesting The Group is also a defendant in four proposed class actions in documents relating to the Groups Vaccines business.
There has been no significant activity in 2017 in the responding to the subpoena.
The Group is unable to make a reliable Canadian class actions.
estimate of the expected financial effect of this matter, and no Sales and marketing and regulation provision has been made for it.
The Groups marketing and promotion of its Pharmaceutical US subpoena relating to Imitrex and Amerge and Vaccine products are the subject of certain governmental On 7 March 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the US investigations and private lawsuits brought by litigants under various Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York requesting theories of law.
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate documents relating to the Groups US contracts for Imitrex and of the expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this Amerge.
The Group has completed its response to the subpoena.
category, and has included a provision for such matters in the The Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected provision for legal and other disputes, except as noted below.
financial effect of this matter, and no provision has been made for it.
Matters for which the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, Other provisions.
231 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information 45.
Legal proceedings continued Average wholesale price Lamictal The Attorney General in Illinois filed suit against the Group and a Purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers filed suit in the number of other pharmaceutical companies claiming damages and US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that the restitution due to average wholesale price AWP and or wholesale Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to delay acquisition cost WAC price reporting for pharmaceutical products generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges to the covered by the states Medicaid programmes.
The case alleges that purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive reverse the Group reported or caused to be reported false AWP and WAC payment settlement to resolve patent infringement litigation.
A prices, which, in turn, allegedly caused the state Medicaid agency to separate count accuses the Group of monopolising the market.
reimburse providers more money for covered medicines than the On 26 June 2015, the Court of Appeals reversed the trial courts agency intended.
The state has sought recovery on behalf of itself as decision to dismiss the case and remanded the action back to the payer and on behalf of in-state patients as consumers.
On 18 May 2016, the trial court denied the indirect ongoing, and no trial date has yet been set as to the Group.
purchaser class plaintiffs motion for reconsideration.
As a result, the indirect purchaser class representatives have agreed to a settlement Cidra third-party payer litigation to exit the case and resolve their remaining claims.
Terms of the On 25 July 2013, a number of major US healthcare insurers filed suit settlement are confidential.
The case will continue to move forward against the Group in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania County Court with document production and witness depositions with regard to of Common Pleas seeking compensation for reimbursements they the claims of the direct purchasers.
made for medicines manufactured at the Groups former Cidra plant in Puerto Rico.
These insurers claim that the Group knowingly and Wellbutrin XL illegally marketed and sold adulterated drugs manufactured under Plaintiffs claimed anti-trust injury related to allegedly sham patent conditions non-compliant with cGMP current good manufacturing litigation filed by Biovail against generic companies pursuing ANDAs practices and that they, as third-party insurers, were unlawfully for generic Wellbutrin XL.
Plaintiffs alleged that a conspiracy to delay induced to pay for them.
The suit alleges both US federal and various generic approval existed between Biovail and the Group, but the US state law causes of action.
The Court denied the Groups motion to District Court granted summary judgement in favour of the Group on dismiss and discovery is scheduled to be completed in 2018, with those claims.
The sole remaining claims in the matter relate to the case to be scheduled for trial sometime in late 2018. plaintiffs allegations that the Group entered into an anti-competitive Anti-trust competition reverse payment settlement to resolve the patent infringement Certain governmental actions and private lawsuits have been brought litigation.
The District Court granted summary judgement in favour of against the Group alleging violation of competition or anti-trust laws.
On 9 August 2017, the US Court of Appeals The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected for the Third Circuit Court affirmed the trial courts dismissal of financial effect of the matters discussed in this category and has plaintiffs case on summary judgement.
On 31 August 2017, plaintiffs included a provision for such matters in the provision for legal and filed a motion for a rehearing en banc before the Third Circuit which other disputes, except as noted below.
Matters for which the Group was denied on 20 September 2017.
Plaintiffs did not file a petition for has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, Other provisions.
certiorari asking the United States Supreme Court to review the decision, so the dismissal of the action is now final.
UK Competition and Markets Authority investigation Commercial and corporate On 12 February 2016, the UK Competition and Markets Authority The Group is a defendant in certain cases which allege violation CMA issued a decision fining the Group and two other of US federal securities and ERISA laws.
The Group has been able pharmaceutical companies for infringement of the Competition to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect of the Act.
The CMA imposed a fine of 37.6 million on the Group, as matters discussed in this category and has included a provision for well as fines totaling 7.4 million against the other companies.
This such matters in the provision for legal and other disputes.
Matters for relates to agreements to settle patent disputes between the Group which the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, and potential suppliers of generic paroxetine formulations, entered Other provisions.
The Group terminated the agreements at issue in 2004.
The Group believes it has strong grounds for its appeal of the CMAs finding to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT in order to overturn the fine or substantially reduce it.
The appeal concluded in April 2017.
The CAT delivered its initial judgement on the appeal on 8 March 2018 referring all the principle points at issue to the Court of Justice of the EU for a preliminary ruling.
The matter will then return to the CAT for final judgement.
No provision has been made for this matter.
232 GSK Annual Report 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 45.
Legal proceedings continued Securities ERISA class actions Stiefel Environmental matters On 12 December 2011, the US Securities and Exchange The Group has been notified of its potential responsibility relating Commission SEC filed a formal complaint against Stiefel to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain Laboratories, Inc. and Charles Stiefel in the US District Court for sites, primarily in the US.
Some of these matters are the subject of the District of Florida alleging that Stiefel and its principals violated litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state federal securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and tort shares in the employee stock plan back to the company at a greatly actions brought by private parties.
undervalued price and without disclosing to employees that the The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party at company was about to be sold to the Group.
The case was stayed approximately 19 sites, of which 10 appear on the National Priority while several private actions brought by former Stiefel employees List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response proceeded through the courts, but was returned to active status in Compensation and Liability Act Superfund.
It is unclear when the case ultimately will be seek to require the operators of hazardous waste facilities, scheduled for trial.
transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous waste In addition to the SEC case, one private matter the Martinolich disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse the US case remains.
It is also pending in federal district court in Florida, Government for cleanup costs.
In most instances, the Group is but has been stayed pending the trial of the SEC matter.
The involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste.
allegations in the Martinolich case largely track those in the SEC Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and matter: plaintiff, a former Stiefel employee, alleges that Stiefel and severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are frequently its officers and directors violated the US Employee Retirement resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste disposed Income Security Act ERISA and federal and state securities of by the generator at the site.
The Groups proportionate liability for laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their shares in the cleanup costs has been substantially determined for 18 of the sites employee stock plan back to Stiefel at a greatly undervalued price referred to above.
and without disclosing to employees that Stiefel was about to be The Groups potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
The cost sold to the Group.
of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could, over time, be significant.
The Group has made a provision for these matters, as noted in Note 29, Other provisions.
