168 GSK Annual Report 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Key accounting judgements and estimates continued Pensions and other post-employment benefits Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment benefits except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate are assessed on the basis of assumptions selected by management.
bonds where government bond yields are used.
A sensitivity analysis These assumptions include future earnings and pension increases, is provided in Note 28, Pensions and other post-employment discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on assets and benefits, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead to an mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, Pensions and other increase in the net pension deficit of approximately 800 million and post-employment benefits.
Where a surplus on a defined benefit an increase in the annual pension cost of approximately 29 million.
scheme arises, or there is potential for a surplus to arise from The selection of different assumptions could affect the future results committed future contributions, the rights of the Trustees to prevent of the Group.
the Group obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future are considered in determining whether it is necessary to restrict the amount of the surplus that is recognised.
New accounting requirements The following new and amended accounting standards have been The new Standard is not expected to have a material impact on issued by the IASB and are likely to affect future Annual Reports.
In its financial statements for 2018, GSK will adopt IFRS 9 retrospectively, but with certain permitted exceptions.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers was issued in May As a result, prior year results will not be restated, but there will be 2014 and has been implemented by the Group from 1 January 2018. a cumulative adjustment to decrease equity at 1 January 2018 by The Standard provides a single, principles-based approach to the approximately 11 million.
recognition of revenue from all contracts with customers.
It focuses on the identification of performance obligations in a contract and IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 and will be requires revenue to be recognised when or as those performance implemented by the Group from 1 January 2019.
The Standard obligations are satisfied.
will replace IAS 17 Leases and will require lease liabilities and right of use assets to be recognised on the balance sheet for The new Standard is not expected to have a material impact on the almost all leases.
This is expected to result in a significant increase amount or timing of recognition of reported revenue.
In its financial in both assets and liabilities recognised.
The costs of operating statements for 2018, GSK will adopt IFRS 15 applying the modified leases currently included within operating costs will be split and retrospective approach, with a cumulative adjustment to decrease the financing element of the charge will be reported within finance equity at 1 January 2018 by approximately 4 million.
Finance lease obligations at 31 December 2017 are with the requirements of the Standard where the modified set out in Note 31, Net debt and the undiscounted commitments retrospective approach is adopted, prior year results will not under non-cancellable operating leases are set out in Note 41, be restated.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments was issued in its final form in July 2014 The Group is assessing the potential impact of IFRS 16. and has been implemented by the Group from 1 January 2018.
The Standard replaces the majority of IAS 39 and covers the IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments was issued in June classification, measurement and fide-recognition of financial assets 2017 and will be implemented by the Group from 1 January 2019. and financial liabilities, introduces a new impairment model for The Interpretation clarifies that if it is considered probable that a tax financial assets based on expected losses rather than incurred authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment, the tax charge should losses and provides a new hedge accounting model.
be calculated on that basis.
If it is not considered probable, the effect of the uncertainty should be estimated and reflected in the tax charge.
In assessing the uncertainty, it is assumed that the tax authority will have full knowledge of all information related to the matter.
The Group is continuing to assess the potential impact of the new Interpretation.
Exchange rates The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during 2017 2016 2015 the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas Average rates: subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates into Sterling and period US$ 1.30 1.36 1.53 end rates to translate the net assets of those entities.
The currencies Euro 1.15 1.23 1.37 which most influence these translations and the relevant exchange Yen 145 149 185 rates were as follows: Period end rates: US$ 1.35 1.24 1.47 Euro 1.13 1.17 1.36 Yen 152 144 177
