INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS INCORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland with the registered number 1731.
We send paper Annual Reports only to shareholders who have asked us to do so.
All shareholders receive notices of our The Trusts Register of Members is held at meetings and information on how to access our Annual Report.
Computershare Investor Services PLC, Shareholders can opt to receive all notifications electronically Leven House, 10 Lochside Place, by going to www-uk.
com investor Edinburgh Park, Edinburgh EH12 9DF TAXATION GENERAL ENQUIRIES If you are in any doubt about your liability to tax arising If you have an enquiry about the Trust, or wish to from a shareholding in the Trust, you should seek receive a paper copy of our Annual Report, please contact professional advice.
the Trust Secretary at our registered office: INCOME TAX 8 West Marketgait, Dundee DD1 1QN Dividends paid by the Trust carry a tax credit at 10% of the Tel: 01382 321010 gross dividend.
Dividends are paid net of the tax credit.
co. uk If you hold your shares in your own name, the tax voucher which you need for your tax records will be sent to the Our website www.
co. uk contains information address we have for you on the register maintained by about the Trust, including daily share price and net Computershare.
The Registrar will send a consolidated tax asset value.
voucher to members after the final dividend during the tax REGISTRARS year is paid.
Our Registrars are: If your dividends are received by a nominee, such as your stockbrokers nominee, you must contact that person for the Computershare Investor Services PLC tax voucher.
If you invest in the Trust through Alliance Trust PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Savings, it will automatically supply you with a consolidated Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH income tax voucher for income received for you in the Change of address notifications and registration enquiries for Investment Dealing Account.
shareholdings registered in your own name should be sent CAPITAL GAINS TAX to the Trusts Registrars at the above address.
You should also contact the Registrars if you would like the dividends on For investors who purchased shares prior to 31 March 1982, shares registered in your own name to be sent to your bank the cost of those shares for capital gains tax purposes is or building society account.
You may check your holdings and deemed to be the price of the share on that date.
The market view other information about Alliance Trust shares registered value of each Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share on that in your own name at www.
com date was 2.85 which, when adjusted for the split on a 10 for 1 basis on 21 June 2006, gives an equivalent value of 0.285 DATA PROTECTION per share.
The market value of each Second Alliance Trust The Trust is a data controller as defined under the PLC ordinary 25p share on 31 March 1982 was 2.35.
Information received from or of Second Alliance Trust PLC shares received 8.7453 ordinary about shareholders or investors for example from a 2.5p shares for each 25p ordinary share they held on 20 June stockbroker, whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or 2006 and are treated as though they acquired these shares at by any other electronic or digital means of communication the same time and at the same cost as the Second Alliance may be processed.
Trust shares they previously held.
This gives an equivalent value of 0.269 per share.
Information held on the Trusts Register of Members is, by law, information to which the public may, for a proper INVESTOR DISCLOSURE DOCUMENT purpose, have access and the Trust cannot prevent any The EU AIFMD requires certain information to be made person inspecting it or having copies of it for such purpose, available to investors prior to their purchase of shares in the on payment of the statutory fee.
The Trust's Investor Disclosure Document is available at If you do not want to receive information from the Trust www.
co. uk other than that which the Trust is obliged to issue to shareholders, please let us know and we will remove you from our mailing lists.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 90 SHARE INVESTMENT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Alliance Trust PLC invests primarily in equities and aims to The 130th Annual General Meeting of the Trust will be held at generate capital growth and a progressively rising dividend 11.00 am on Thursday 26 April 2018 at the Gardyne Theatre, from its portfolio of investments.
Dundee and Angus College, Gardyne Road, Dundee DD5 1NY.
The Notice of Meeting, detailing the business of the meeting, Alliance Trust currently conducts its affairs so that its shares is sent to all shareholders.
The Meeting will be followed in can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors in the afternoon by a presentation from Willis Towers Watson accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream and two of the equity managers.
investment products and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares are excluded from the FINANCIAL CALENDAR FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment Proposed dividend payment dates for the financial year to products because they are shares in an investment trust.
31 December 2018 are on or around: The shares in Alliance Trust may also be suitable for institutional 2 July 2018 investors who seek a combination of capital and income return.
1 October 2018 Private investors should consider consulting an independent 31 December 2018 financial adviser who specialises in advising on the acquisition 1 April 2019 of shares and other securities before acquiring shares.
Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks and merits DIVIDEND TAX ALLOWANCE of such an investment and should have sufficient resources to From April 2016 dividend tax credits have been replaced bear any loss that may result.
by an tax-free allowance across an individuals entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals will pay tax on RISKS their dividend income at a rate dependent on their income If you wish to acquire shares in the Trust, you should take tax bracket and personal circumstances.
Our Registrars professional advice as to whether an investment in our shares provide registered shareholders with a confirmation of the is suitable for you.
You should be aware that: dividends paid by Alliance Trust PLC and this should be included with any other dividend income received when Investment should be made for the long term.
calculating and reporting total dividend income received.
The price of a share will be affected by the supply and It is the shareholders responsibility to include all dividend demand for it and may not fully represent the underlying value income when calculating tax requirements.
If you have any of the assets of the Trust.
The price generally stands below tax queries, please contact your financial adviser.
the net asset value of the Trust at a discount but it may also stand above it at a premium.
Your capital return will depend COMMON REPORTING STANDARDS upon the movement of the discount premium over the period You may have received requests from our Registrar for you own the share, as well as the capital performance of the personal information to comply with legal obligations Trusts own assets.
introduced to reduce tax evasion.
While it is not compulsory The assets owned by the Trust may have exposure to that you complete and return these requests, we are required currencies other than Sterling.
Changes in market movements by law to make these requests and to report on the responses and in rates of exchange may cause the value of your received to HMRC.
investment to go up or down.
Please note that only a small number of our shareholders Past performance is not a guide to the future.
What you get fall into the category where we have to make these requests.
back will depend on investment performance.
You may not If you have any queries on the validity of any document get back the amount you invest.
received from our Registrars, you can contact them directly on 0370 889 3187.
BOGUS TELEPHONE CALLS We have become aware of a number of telephone calls being made to shareholders wherein the caller offers to buy the recipients shares at a price significantly above the current market price.
We are prohibited from advising shareholders on whether to buy or to sell shares in Alliance Trust PLC, but recommend that if you wish to sell your shares you deal only with a financial services firm that is authorised by the FCA.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 91
