GLOSSARY: PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND OTHER TERMS Throughout this document we use a number of terms to MSCI means MSCI Inc which provides information relating describe performance.
Where not described in detail to the benchmark, the MSCI All Country World Index, against elsewhere we set out here what these terms mean.
which the performance target for the equity portfolio has been set.
MSCIs disclaimer regarding the information provided Active Risk is a measure of the risk in a portfolio that is by it can be found on our website.
due to active management decisions.
It is calculated as the standard deviation of the excess returns of a portfolio over NAV Total Return is a measure of the performance of the its benchmark.
For the equity portfolio as at 31 December Trusts net asset value over a specified period.
It combines 2017 this was calculated as 2.2% in relation to the MSCI ACWI any appreciation in the net asset value and dividends paid.
The comparator used for NAV total return is the MSCI ACWI total return, as a NAV total return for that index is not available.
Active Share is a measure of how actively a portfolio is managed, is the percentage of the portfolio that differs from its The NAV at 31 December 2017 was 777.7p 2016: 667.5p, comparative index.
It is calculated by deducting from 100 the increasing 16.5% over the year.
The NAV total return for the percentage of the portfolio that overlaps with the comparative period was 18.5% and the effect of reinvesting the dividends index.
An active share of 100 indicates no overlap with the index was therefore 2.0%.
and an active share of zero indicates a portfolio that tracks the Net Asset Value NAV is the value of total assets less liabilities index.
For the equity portfolio as at 31 December 2017 this was including borrowings.
The NAV per share is calculated by calculated as 80% in relation to the MSCI ACWI benchmark.
dividing this amount by the number of ordinary shares in issue Benchmark Volatility is a measure of the dispersion or and is stated on a cum-income basis.
The Trusts balance variability of the benchmark returns, MSCI ACWI.
It is calculated sheet net asset value as at 31 December 2017 is 2.699633bn as the standard deviation of the benchmark returns over a divided by the 347,135,270 shares in issue on that date giving one-year period.
We calculate the benchmark volatility as at a NAV per share of 777.7p 31 December 2017 to be 12.8%.
Ongoing Charges represent the total ongoing costs and are Beta is a measure of the volatility of a portfolio in comparison calculated in accordance with the guidelines issued by the to its benchmark.
In general, a beta less than 1 indicates that Association of Investment Companies AIC.
More detailed the investment is less volatile than the benchmark, while information can be found on page 20. a beta greater than 1 indicates that the investment is more Ongoing Charge Ratio OCR The total ongoing expenses volatile than the benchmark.
The equity portfolio has a beta excluding borrowing costs incurred by the Company as a of 0.97 as at 31 December 2017. percentage of the average net asset value with debt at fair Equity Portfolio Total Return is a measure of the performance value.
A fuller explanation and the method of calculation of the Trusts equity portfolio over a specified period.
It combines can be found on page 20. any appreciation in the value of the equity portfolio and dividends Portfolio Volatility is a measure of the dispersion or paid.
The comparator used for equity portfolio return is the variability of the equity portfolio returns.
It is calculated MSCI ACWI total return.
The equity portfolio return was 18.0% as the standard deviation of the portfolio returns over a over the year to end 31 December 2017 gross of manager fees.
We calculate the portfolio volatility as at On page 14 we provide an analysis of the investment portfolio 31 December 2017 to be 12.6%.
Total Assets represents total net assets less current liabilities, Gearing At its simplest, gearing is borrowing.
Just like any before deduction of all borrowings.
other public company, an investment trust can borrow money to invest in additional investments for its portfolio.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is the return to shareholders The effect of the borrowing on the shareholders assets is after reinvesting the net dividend on the date that the share price called gearing.
If the companys assets grow, the shareholders goes ex-dividend.
The comparator used for total shareholder assets grow proportionately more because the debt remains return is the MSCI ACWI total return.
This measure shows the the same.
But if the value of the companys assets falls, actual return received by a shareholder from their investment.
Gearing can therefore enhance The Trust's share price as at 31 December 2017 was 746.5p performance in rising markets but can adversely impact 2016: 638.0p, an increase of 17.0% over the year.
The total performance in falling markets.
shareholder return for the period was 19.2% and the effect of reinvesting the dividends was therefore 2.2%.
Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive, leverage is any method which increases the Trusts exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Trusts exposure and its net asset value and can be calculated on a gross and a commitment method.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Trusts positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the deduction of sterling cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 89
