Shareholder information Shareholder information Dividend confirmation and interest payment tax vouchers are Schroders plc available electronically at investorcentre.
co. uk to those holders who Registered in England and Wales Company No.
3909886 have their payments mandated to their bank or building society Registered office accounts and who have expressed a preference for 31 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QA e-communications.
Tel: 44 0 20 7658 6000 The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP which Fax: 44 0 20 7658 6965 provides shareholders with a way of increasing their shareholding in Email: companysecretary@schroders.
com the Company by reinvesting their dividends.
A copy of the DRIP terms schroders.
com and conditions and application form can be obtained from the Registrar.
Share and Loan Note Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC Details of dividend payments can be found in the Directors report on The Pavilions page 92.
Bridgwater Road Schroders offers a service to shareholders in participating countries Bristol BS99 6ZZ which enables dividends to be received in local currencies.
You can UK Shareholder and Loan Noteholder helpline: check your eligibility and or request a mandate form by contacting Freephone UK callers only : 0800 923 1530 the Registrar.
International: 44 117 378 8170 Floating Rate Unsecured Loan Notes Fax: 44 0 370 703 6101 As set out in the Deed constituting the Floating Rate Unsecured Loan investorcentre.
co. uk Notes Loan Notes, all outstanding Loan Notes will be automatically Financial calendar redeemed on 30 June 2018 and the redemption payment and accrued Ex-dividend date 22 March 2018 interest paid to Loan Noteholders on 2 July 2018.
Record date 23 March 2018 Overseas branch register DRIP election date deadline 12 April 2018 An overseas branch register is operated in Bermuda for the benefit of Annual General Meeting 26 April 2018 shareholders with registered addresses in Bermuda.
Enquiries should be directed to the Registrar.
Final dividend payment date 3 May 2018 Half-yearly results announcement 26 July 2018 Warning to shareholders Interim dividend paid September 2018 Companies are aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment Date to be confirmed.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target Annual General Meeting UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be Our AGM will be held at 11.30 a. m. on 26 April 2018 at 31 Gresham worthless or high risk shares or investments.
These operations are Street, London EC2V 7QA.
commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Investor Centre Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers Computershare is the Companys share and loan note registrar.
to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you Investor Centre is Computershares free, secure, self-service website receive any unsolicited investment advice: where holders can manage their interests online.
Make sure you get the correct name of the person and The website enables holders to: organisation.
View share and loan note balances Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting Change address details involved by visiting register.
View payment and tax information Report the matter to the FCA by calling 0800 111 6768 or visiting Update payment instructions fca.
Update communication instructions Do not deal with any firm that you are unsure about.
Holders can register their email address at investorcentre.
co. uk to be If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to notified electronically of events such as AGMs, and can receive receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
shareholder and loan note communications such as the Annual The FCA provides a list of unauthorised firms of which it is aware, Report and Accounts and the Notice of Meeting online.
which can be accessed at fca.
Enquiries and notifications concerning dividends, interest payments, share or loan note certificates or transfers and address changes More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found should be sent to the Registrar.
Dividends and interest payments Paying dividend and interest payments into a bank or building society Capital gains tax account helps reduce the risk of fraud and will provide you with Capital gains tax values for the Companys shares as at 31 March 1982 immediate access to your funds.
Applications for an electronic and values relating to the disposal of the investment banking mandate can be made by contacting the Registrar.
business in 2000 can be found on the Companys website.
If your dividend is paid directly into your bank or building society account, you will receive an annual consolidated dividend confirmation which will be sent to you in September each year at the time the interim dividend is paid.
You will receive a tax voucher each time you are paid an interest payment.
166 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017
