Shareholder information Glossary Assets under management AUM Alternative performance measures The aggregate value of assets managed on behalf of clients.
In Wealth Management this includes assets where Schroders provides advisory An alternative performance measure APM is a financial measure services but the investment decisions are made by the client.
AUM of historical or future financial performance, financial position, or also includes assets held in custody where the client independently cash flows, other than a financial measure defined or specified in makes investment decisions, whether it is through direct contact with the applicable financial reporting framework.
Certain of the Schroders or via the Fusion wealth platform.
Groups APMs exclude exceptional items which are defined in note 1 b and presented separately in the Consolidated income For Schroder Adveq, the aggregate value of assets managed is based statement.
The Groups APMs are defined below.
on committed funds by clients.
This is changed to the lower of committed funds and net asset value, typically after seven years from Annualised net new revenue The net operating revenue that would be earned over a one year the initial investment, in line with the fee basis.
timeframe if the net new business was all transacted on the same Assets under management and administration AUMA day and there were no market movements or other changes to The combined value of AUA and AUM.
assets under management or fee rates over that year.
Calculated Basis point bps as gross new funds from clients multiplied by the applicable net One one-hundredth of a percentage point 0.01%.
operating revenue margin for each flow, less gross funds withdrawn multiplied by the applicable net operating revenue BEIS Committee margin for each flow.
This measure provides additional The Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee is a select information to better assess the impact of net new business on committee of the House of Commons in the Parliament of the United the Groups net operating revenue.
Basic or diluted earnings per share before exceptional items Beta Profit after tax but before exceptional items divided by the Market returns.
relevant weighted average number of shares see note 7.
The Branded funds presentation of earnings per share before exceptional items Funds where the assets are held and managed by the same provides transparency of recurring revenue and expenditure to investment management company.
These funds are typically branded aid understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
with the companys name e. g. Schroder UK Alpha Plus Fund.
Payout ratio Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e 2 The total dividend per share in respect of the year see note 8 A standard unit for measuring carbon footprints.
It enables the divided by the pre-exceptional basic earnings per share.
impact of different greenhouse gas emissions on global warming Profit before tax and exceptional items tobe expressed using an equivalent amount of carbon dioxide CO 2 Profit before tax but excluding exceptional items.
presentation provides transparency of recurring revenue and CDP expenditure to aid understanding of the financial performance of Formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Client investment performance Ratio of total costs to net income Client investment performance is calculated internally by Schroders to Total Group costs before exceptional items divided by net income give shareholders and financial analysts general guidance on how our before exceptional items.
A 65% ratio is targeted to ensure costs AUM is performing.
The data is aggregated and is intended to provide are aligned with net income, although we recognise that in information for comparison to prior reporting periods only.
It is not weaker markets the ratio may be higher than our long-term intended for clients or potential clients investing in our products.
Calculations for investment performance are made gross of fees with Total compensation ratio the exception of those for which the stated comparator is a net of fees Pre-exceptional compensation costs see note 5 divided by competitor ranking.
By targeting a total compensation The calculation includes 100% of internally-managed Asset Management ratio of 45 to 49%, depending upon market conditions, we align assets, excluding Liability-Driven Investments LDI strategies, that have a the interests of shareholders and employees.
complete track record over the respective reporting period.
Assets held in LDI strategies, which currently amount to 25 billion, are excluded as Active management these are not seeking to outperform a stated objective but to match the The management of investments based on active decision-making liability profile of pension funds.
Assets managed by third parties are rather than aiming to replicate an index.
excluded and primarily comprise the Luxembourg-domiciled GAIA fund AIFMD range of 6.4 billion and legacy private equity assets, but include The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive was Schroder Adveq managed private equity assets of 1.6 billion.
implemented in the UK in July 2013 and is a regulatory framework for Performance is calculated relative to the relevant stated comparator alternative investment fund managers, including managers of hedge for each strategy as below.
These fall into one of four categories, the funds, private equity firms and investment trusts.
percentages for each of which refer to the three year calculation: Alpha For 79% of assets included in the calculation, the comparator is the Excess return over market returns relative to a market benchmark.
Assets under administration AUA If the stated comparator is to competitor rankings, the relative Assets advised by the Best Practice and Evolution Wealth Independent position of the fund to its peer group on a like-for-like basis is used Financial Adviser IFA networks where Schroders solely provides to calculate performance.
This applies to 5% of assets in the administrative support, including the Enable Client Relationship calculation.
System and regulatory compliance services, but where the IFAs are Assets for which the stated comparator is an absolute return target independent from the Schroders Group.
2016 assets under are measured against that absolute target.
This applies to 10% of administration has been restated to exclude assets from which we assets in the calculation.
only derive transactional non-recurring revenues.
Assets with no stated objective are measured against a cash return, if applicable.
This applies to 6% of assets in the calculation.
168 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Shareholder information CMA ILAAP Competition and Markets Authority.
Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process.
Compensation cost Institutional sales channel and clients Total cost of employee benefits.
Institutional clients, such as pension funds, insurance companies and government funds, come to Schroders through their own adviser or Defined benefit DB pension scheme consultant.
Assignments are typically highly specific and may be A pension benefit where the employer has an obligation to provide combined with their other investments in a range of asset classes and participating employees with pension payments that represent a with other managers they employ.
specified percentage of their salary for each year of service.
Intermediary sales channel and clients Defined contribution DC pension scheme Schroders works with intermediaries such as banks, insurance A pension benefit where the employers contribution to an employees companies, platforms and independent financial advisers.
pension is measured as, and limited to, a specified amount, usually a Intermediary assets under management included branded funds and percentage of salary.
The value of the pension pot can go up or down sub-advisory mandates.
depending on how the investments perform.
Investment capital DEFRA Investible equity from shareholders held in excess of operating Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
It is managed with the aim of achieving a low volatility Employee benefit trust return.
It is mainly held in cash, government and governmentA type of discretionary trust established to hold cash or other assets guaranteed bonds, investment grade corporate bonds and Schroders for the benefit of employees, such as to satisfy share awards.
Investment capital is also used to help support the organic development of existing and new business strategies and to respond EPS to other investment and growth opportunities as they arise, such as Earnings per share.
acquisitions that will accelerate the development of the business.
ESG Investment returns Environmental, social and governance.
The increase in AUM attributable to investment performance, market EU27 movements and foreign exchange.
The 27 countries within the European Union involved with negotiating LGBT with the UK on Brexit.
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender and other groups of sexual Family offices and gender minorities.
These manage the financial and investment side of ultra high net Liability-driven investment LDI worth individuals or families.
A form of investing where the main goal is to gain and maintain FCA sufficient assets to meet known liabilities, both current and future.
Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom.
This form of investment is most prominent for defined benefit Fitch Investment Management Quality Rating pension schemes.
A forward-looking, relative assessment of an investment managers Life Company investment capabilities and the strength of its operational platform.
Schroder Pension Management Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary, Ratings have five key pillars: investment process: investment which provides investment products through a life assurance resources: risk management: investment performance and the wrapper.
Ratings are assigned on a five MiFID II tiered scale from Excellent to Weak.
Excellent indicates that the The second iteration of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
investment manager has extremely strong investment capabilities MiFID II is an EU directive which standardises regulation for and operational characteristics.
investment services throughout the European Economic Area.
FRC MRTs Financial Reporting Council.
Employees deemed to be material risk takers GAIA under one or more of the regulatory regimes that applies to the Global Alternative Investor Access.
Group and its subsidiaries, such as the UCITS Directive or AIFMD.
GHG Protocol Net income Greenhouse gas protocol, a comprehensive global standardised A sub-total comprising net operating revenue, net gains on financial frameworks to measure and manage greenhouse gas emissions.
instruments and other income and share of profit of associates and GMC joint ventures.
Net new business GOC Also referred to as net new money invested.
New funds from clients Global Operations Committee.
less funds withdrawn by clients.
This is also described as net inflows when positive or net outflows when negative.
New funds and funds GRC withdrawn are calculated as at 31 December 2017 on the basis of Group Risk Committee.
actual funding provided or withdrawn.
HM Revenue & Customs Net operating revenue Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.
A sub-total consisting of revenue less cost of sales as defined in notes ICAAP 2 and 3 of the financial report.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
Net operating revenue margins IFA Asset Management and or Wealth Management net operating Independent Financial Adviser.
revenue divided by the relevant average AUM.
IFRS Passive products International Financial Reporting Standards.
Products whose stated objective is to replicate the return of an index.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 169 Shareholder information Pillar 1 Private Assets: A wide range of capabilities which provide access The minimum capital requirements in relation to credit risk, toopportunities not available in public markets.
operational risk and market risk taken by the Group as principal.
Retirement: A long-term approach to improving retirement outcomes, whether through capital growth, inflation protection Pillar 2 The requirement for companies to assess the level of additional orsustainable income.
capital held against risks not covered in Pillar 1.
Solutions: A broad range of long-term solutions designed to help clients better manage risk in their portfolios.
Pillar 3 This complements Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 with the aim of improving Sustainability: Integrating sustainability research across asset market discipline by requiring companies to publish certain details classes and geographies to generate better outcomes for clients.
oftheir risks, capital and risk management.
Schroders Pillar 3 Sub-advised funds disclosures are available at schroders.
Funds where the assets are held by one company, while the Platforms management of them is contracted to another investment manager.
Platforms in the UK savings market offer a range of investment Total capital requirement products such as unit trusts, Individual Saving Accounts ISAs, The requirement to hold the sum of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A capital unit-linked life and pension bonds and Self-Invested Personal requirements.
Pillar 2A capital requirements are supplementary Pensions SIPPs to facilitate investment in many funds from different requirements for those risk categories not captured by Pillar 1, managers through one portal.
depending on specific circumstances of a company, as set out by the PRA PRA.
Total dividend per share PRIIPs Unless otherwise stated, this is the total dividend in respect of the Packaged Retail Investment and Insurance-based Products.
PRIIPs year, comprised of the interim dividend and the proposed final make up a broad category of financial assets that are regularly dividend.
This differs from the IFRS dividend which is comprised of provided to consumers in the EU.
It covers all packaged, publicly theprior year and current year interim dividends declared and paid marketed financial products that have exposure to underlying assets, during the year.
provide a return over time and have an element of risk.
Total equity RCA Total assets less total liabilities.
UCITS Regulatory capital Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities.
The amount of risk capital set by legislation or local regulators, which UCITS is a regulatory framework of the European Commission that companies must hold against any difficulties such as market or credit creates a harmonised regime throughout Europe for the risks.
management and sale of investment funds.
Regulatory surplus capital UCITS AIF MRTs Total equity less the Groups overall regulatory capital requirement Employees deemed to be material risk takers under the UCITS and regulatory deductions, in accordance with the EU Capital Directive or AIFMD.
Requirements Regulation as set out in the Groups Pillar 3 disclosures.
UK Stewardship Code Robo-advice A set of principles or guidelines released in 2010 by the Financial Automated, algorithm-based portfolio management advice provided Reporting Council directed at institutional investors who hold voting by an online wealth management service using software rather than rights in United Kingdom companies.
UN PRI Seed and co-investment capital The United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment Seed capital comprises initial investment put into a fund by the Initiative is an international network of investors working together business to allow it to develop a performance track record before it is toimplement the six Principles for Responsible Investment.
Its goal marketed to potential clients.
Co-investment comprises investment isto understand the implications of sustainability for investors and made alongside our clients.
support signatories to incorporate these issues into their investment decision making and ownership practices.
Strategic capabilities A new approach to categorising Schroders product offering, which moves away from the traditional asset class view and instead focuses on delivering specific outcomes designed to meet a broad range of client needs: Absolute Return: A range of typically unconstrained strategies Printed by Pureprint Group on FSC which seek to produce a positive return over a cycle.
Alpha Equity: An actively-managed approach to equity investing Pureprint Group is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral aimed at generating higher returns and meeting client needs.
Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
Credit: A diverse range of credit strategies across the risk return spectrum designed to offer a range of outcomes to our clients.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil-based.
Emerging Markets: A broad cross-asset class product range which This document is printed on Splendorgel Extra White, a provides access to the growth offered by emerging markets.
paper containing virgin fibre sourced from well managed, sustainable, FSC certified forests.
The pulp Income: A broad range of products which aim to provide clients used in this product is bleached using an elemental with a regular, sustainable income.
Multi-Asset Solutions: Our multi-asset teams allocate actively Designed and produced by Black Sun plc.
todifferent asset classes to deliver specific client outcomes.
170 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
