GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT Under applicable UK law, the Directors are Responsibility statement required by Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 64 to consolidated financial statements and parent 65 of this Annual Report, confirm to the best of their knowledge that: company financial statements in accordance with The financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, applicable law and regulation.
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Responsibility for financial statements undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to prepare financial The Management report, which is comprised of the Strategic report statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have and the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development prepared the Group and parent company financial statements in or performance of the business and the position of the Company and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole, together as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group Approval of Strategic report and the Directors Report and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Strategic report and the Directors Report have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have CHARLIE RITCHIE been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and COMPANY SECRETARY explained in the financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 97
