The total includes 75,951,724 shares held in treasury.
Registrars Financial calendar Enquiries concerning shareholdings or dividends should, in the first instance, AGM 26 April 2018 be addressed to the Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Interim results 1 August 2018 Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA telephone: 0371 384 2163 or 44 0 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK.
Shareholders should Registered Office promptly notify the registrars of any change of address or other particulars.
Brook Road, Wimborne, The registrars provide a range of shareholders services online.
The portfolio Dorset, service provides access to information on investments including balance England movements, indicative share prices and information on dividends and also BH21 2BJ enables address and mandate details to be amended online.
For further Tel: 44 0 1202 882020 information and practical help on transferring shares or updating your Fax: 44 0 1202 840523 details, please visit www.
The share dealing service enables shares to be sold by UK shareholders by telephone, post or over Internet: www.
For telephone sales please call 0345 603 7037 between Registered Number in England: 00030470 8:00am and 4:30pm, Monday to Friday.
For postal sales, please send your completed documentation to the address above.
For internet sales, please Cautionary Statements visit www.
This publication contains forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Cobham Group Individual Savings Accounts ISAs and to certain of Cobhams objectives with respect to these items.
The registrars also offer an ISA for Cobham shareholders.
Further information may be obtained by visiting www.
co. uk, or telephone 0345 300 Forward looking statements are sometimes but not always identified by the 0430 or 44 0 121 415 0105 if calling from outside the UK.
use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal, or You should bear in mind that investments, both their value and the income estimates or the negative thereof.
By their very nature forward looking they provide, can go down as well as up and you might not get back what statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and you originally invested.
uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or will occur in the future.
Capital gains tax For the information of shareholders who held Cobham plc ordinary shares on There are various factors that could cause actual results and developments 31 March 1982, the market value, adjusted for capitalisation and Rights Issues, to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward of the Companys ordinary shares on that date for capital gains tax purposes, looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes unadjusted for the share sub-division of July 2005, was 86.02p.
ineconomies, political situations and markets in which the Group operates: changes in government priorities due to programme reviews or revisions to ShareGift strategic objectives: changes in regulatory or competition frameworks in Do you have a small shareholding which is uneconomical to sell?
You may want which the Group operates: the impact of legal or other proceedings against to consider donating it to ShareGift registered charity no.
1052686, a charity or which affect the Group: changes to or delays in programmes in which the that specialises in the donation of small, unwanted shareholdings to good Group is involved: the completion of acquisitions and divestitures and causes.
You can find out more by visiting www.
org or calling changes in commodity prices, inflation or exchange rates.
All written or verbal forward looking statements, made in this publication Shareholder Security ormade subsequently, which are attributable to Cobham or any other Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy member of the Group or persons acting on their behalf, are expressly shares, or offers of free reports about the Company.
Details of any share qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Neither Cobham dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company nor any other person intends to update these forward looking statements.
mailings or on our website.
If you receive any unsolicited advice, make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and check that they are No statement in this publication is intended as a profit forecast or should be appropriately authorised by the FCA by visiting www.
You can also interpreted to mean that underlying operating profit for the current or call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or 44 0 20 7066 1000 if future financial years would necessarily be above a minimum level, or match calling from outside the UK.
or exceed the historical published operating profits or set a minimum level of operating profit.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 8:30am to 5:30pm: excluding Public Holidays in England and Wales.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 137 The most important thing we build is trust Find more online Our website provides further information including shareholder services and governance, details of our products and services, corporate responsibility and sustainability, and more at: Products and service offerings Investor information and share price performance Corporate responsibility and sustainability www.
com Cobham plc Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, UK www.
