NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Acacia Mining plc, formerly African Barrick Gold plc the Company, Acacia or collectively with its subsidiaries the Group was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and re-registered as a public limited company on 12 March 2010 under the Companies Act 2006.
It is registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187.
On 24 March 2010 the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering IPO.
The address of its registered office is 5th Floor, 1 Cavendish Place, London, W1G 0QF, United Kingdom.
Barrick Gold Corporation BGC currently owns approximately 63.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate parent and controlling party of the Group.
The financial statements of BGC can be obtained from www.
BGC is incorporated in Canada.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 6 March 2018.
The Groups primary business is the mining, processing and sale of gold.
The Group has three operating mines located in Tanzania.
The Group also has a portfolio of exploration projects located across Africa.
The principal activities of the Company, its subsidiaries and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Country of Equity interest at 3 Company Principal activity incorporation Relationship 31 December 2017 & 2016 Acacia Mining plc Holding Company UK 100% BUK HoldCo Limited Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 1 BUK East Africa Limited Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 1 1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% Acacia Mining Barbados Corp Ltd Group Finance Company Barbados Subsidiary 100% BAPL Holding Ltd Holding Company Mauritius Subsidiary 100% Acacia Exploration Kenya Ltd Exploration Kenya Subsidiary 100% CayCo Tz Ltd Holding Company Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% ABG Exploration Limited Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% Matinje Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Itobo Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Nyanzaga Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% Barrick Tanzanian Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% Barisun Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Prime Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Kasubuya Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 60% KMCL Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% North Mara Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% Pangea Goldfields Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% Pangea Minerals Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 1051694 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% Acacia Mining SA Pty Ltd Shared Services South Africa Subsidiary 100% East Africa Gold Mines Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% Tusker Gold Limited Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% Indago Autan Proprietary Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 2 IDG Aurum Tanzania Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 IDG Aurum Holdings Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 IDG Kitongo Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 Aptian Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 Sub-Sahara Resources Tanzania Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 BUK West Africa Ltd Holding Company United Kingdom Subsidiary 100% ABG Exploration Mali SARL Exploration Mali Subsidiary 100% African Barrick Gold Ltd Holding Company United Kingdom Subsidiary 100% Bulyanhulu Holdings Pty Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% BUK Burkina Faso Ltd Holding Company United Kingdom Subsidiary 100% Acacia Burkina Faso Exploration SARL Exploration Burkina Faso Subsidiary 100% Nyakafuru Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 51% 1 Exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of S448A of Companies Act 2006.
3 A list of registered addresses for each of these Group companies can be obtained from the Acacia Plc Office address, as stated above.
There are no restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the parent in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances.
The joint ventures included in the table above are currently immaterial to the Group.
116 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Significant accounting policies Amendments to IAS 12, Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Unrealised Losses.
Amendments made to IAS 12 will aim to clarify consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless value and that fair value is below the assets tax base.
The amendment did not have a significant impact on the Group financial statements.
a Basis of preparation Amendments to IAS 7, Disclosure Initiative.
Going forward, entities The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared will be required to explain changes in their liabilities arising from in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as financing activities.
This includes changes arising from cash flows adopted by the European Union IFRS, IFRS Interpretations Committee e. g. drawdowns and repayments of borrowings and non-cash changes IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 such as acquisitions, disposals, accretion of interest and unrealised applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements exchange differences.
Changes in financial assets must be included in are prepared on a going concern basis.
this disclosure if the cash flows were, or will be, included in cash flows The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under from financing activities.
The amendment did the historical cost convention basis, as modified by the revaluation of not have a significant impact on the Group financial statements.
financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments c New and amended standards and interpretations at fair value through profit or loss.
not yet adopted The consolidated financial statements are presented in United States The following standards and amendments to existing standards have dollars US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods US dollars except when otherwise indicated.
beginning on or after 1 January 2018: Where a change in the presentational format between the prior year IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
IFRS 9 replaces the multiple and current year financial statements has been made during the period, classification and measurement models in IAS 39 Financial comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
No presentational instruments: Recognition and measurement with a single model that changes were made in the current year.
has initially only two classification categories: amortised cost and fair value.
The adoption of the new standard will not have a significant The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS impact on the Group.
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
This standard Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of is a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates with customers to achieve greater consistency in the recognition are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed and presentation of revenue.
Revenue is recognised based on the in Note2d.
satisfaction of performance obligations, which occurs when control of good or service transfers to a customer.
The impact of the seasonality on operations is not considered as The adoption of the new standard will not have a significant impact significant on the consolidated financial information.
In assessing the Acacia Groups going concern status the Directors have IFRS 16 Leases.
IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17, Leases, IFRIC 4, taken into account the impact of the concentrate export ban on on-going Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC 15, operations as well as the following factors and assumptions: the current Operating Leases Incentives and SIC 27, Evaluating the Substance cash position: the latest mine plans, the short-term gold price, and Acacia of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
IFRS 16 will affect Groups capital expenditure and financing plans.
In addition, the Directors primarily the accounting by lessees and will result in the recognition of have considered a range of scenarios around the various potential almost all leases on balance sheet.
The standard removes the current outcomes for the resolution of the current operating challenges in Tanzania distinction between operating and financing leases and requires in the circumstances, including the cash flow impact of an extended recognition of an asset the right to use the leased item and a financial concentrate export ban: and the potential impacts of the timing and final liability to pay rentals for virtually all lease contracts.
Effective terms of any comprehensive settlement which might be approved by the 1 January 2019.
Management is currently evaluating the impact of the Company which reflect key terms of the framework announcements made new standard in order to put all frameworks and systems in place.
by Barrick and the GoT in October 2017, including the lifting of the Based on initial investigation, the standard is not expected to have concentrate export ban and staged payments of US$300 million relating asignificant impact on the Group, due to majority of our existing to historical tax matters.
In addition, the Directors have assumed that the contracts either relating to service agreements or the performance Group will not be required to settle its current outstanding borrowing obligations based on variable terms and thus not resulting in a right obligations and will repay these in accordance with the current terms of the ofuse asset.
After making appropriate enquiries and considering Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Sharethe uncertainties described above, the Directors consider that it is based Payment Transactions.
The amendments made to AASB 2 in appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated July 2016 clarify the measurement basis for cash-settled share-based financial statement however have concluded that the combination of the payments and the accounting for modifications that change an award above circumstances represents a material uncertainty that may cast from cash-settled to equity-settled.
The significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
The consolidated financial statement does not include any adjustments Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements and that would result if the Group was unable to continue as a going concern IAS28, Investments in associates and joint ventures on sale or should the assumptions referred to above prove not to be correct.
The IASB has issued this amendment to b New and amended standards adopted by the Group eliminate the inconsistency between IFRS 10 and IAS 28.
The IASB The following amendments to standards are applicable and were decided to defer the application date of this amendment, until such adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning time this is not applicable.
The amendment is however not expected 1January 2017: to have a significant impact on the Group.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 117 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Judgements around the prospect, timing and final terms of any comprehensive negotiated settlement that the Company might be able d Significant judgements in applying accounting policies to agree with the Government of Tanzania, including by reference to and key sources of estimation uncertainty the key terms of the framework announcements made in October 2017 Many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements by Barrick and the GoT and including judgements around the timing require management to make judgements and or estimates.
These and quantum of any cash outflows that might be made in respect of judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and are based historical tax matters.
on managements experience and best knowledge of the relevant facts Judgements around the timing of Bulyanhulus restart and production and circumstances, but actual results may differ from the amounts ramp up.
included in the consolidated financial statements.
The life of mine plans are central to a number of key estimates.
Information about e Basis of consolidation such judgements and estimations is included in the accounting policies The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial and or notes to the consolidated financial statements, and the key position as at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, and operating areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement and key sources results and cash flows for the years then ended.
The consolidated of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements include: of the Company and companies controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities to which the Company is exposed Estimates of the quantities of proven and probable gold and copper or has the rights to variable returns from its involvement and has the reserves Note 2h.
ability to affect those returns through its power.
Control exists when Estimates included within the life of mine planning such as the the Company has existing rights that give the ability to direct relevant timing and viability of processing of long-term stockpiles Note 2n.
activities, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement The capitalisation of production stripping costs Note 2i.
and the ability to use its power to affect the amount of returns.
The The capitalisation of exploration and evaluation expenditures consolidated financial statements include all of the assets, liabilities, Notes 2l and 8. revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating intercompany transactions as noted above.
Review of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets carrying value, the determination of whether a trigger for an impairment review Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary exists, whether these assets are impaired and the measurement of to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
impairment charges or reversals Notes 2o, 2p, 2q, 2r, 19 and 20.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements The estimated fair values of Cash Generating Units for impairment from the date on which control passed to the Group, and have tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and been excluded from the date on which control transferred out of probable reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates the Group.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and net and discount rates Notes 2r and 6. earnings attributable to non-controlling interests are presented as The estimated useful lives of tangible and long-lived assets and the Equity attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated measurement of depreciation expense Notes 2o and 19. balance sheet and Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases Notes 2o in the consolidated income statement, respectively.
and 19. f Business combinations Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the On acquiring a business, the acquisition method of accounting is used, estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable net Notes 2u and 27. assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Provisional Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the amount fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of any such provision Notes 2u, 27 and 33. of the acquisition date.
Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable, and in When purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the initial particular the indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian Government, cost of the acquisition recorded includes an estimate of the fair value a provision for obsolescence on consumables inventory and the impact of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The of discounting the non-current element of the indirect tax receivable cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, Notes 2n, 2z, 2w, 16, 17 and 22. with corresponding adjustments made to the income statement.
Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values of the identifiable uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which and indirect taxes Notes 2z, 12 and 21. is reviewed for impairment annually or when there is an indication Determination of the cost incurred in the productive process of of impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the ore stockpiles, gold in process, gold dor bullion and concentrate, identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference as well as the associated net realisable value and the split between the is recognised in the income statement.
long-term and short-term portions Notes 2n and 16. g Foreign currency translation Determination of fair value of derivative instruments Notes 2w and 30.
The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different Determination of fair value of share options and cash-settled sharecurrencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian shillings shillings, South based payments Notes 2v and 24.
African rands rands, UK pounds sterling pounds and Australian dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its main subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
118 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar are translated life of the mine or pit.
For production phase stripping costs that at the exchange rates as at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets generate a future economic benefit, the current period stripping costs and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the US dollar are are capitalised as open pit mine development costs.
translated to US dollars at year-end exchange rates.
All differences Capitalised open pit mine development costs are depreciated on a units that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets of production basis whereby the denominator is the estimated ounces measured at historical cost in a currency other than US dollars are of recoverable gold in proven and probable reserves and the portion translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
of resources considered probable of economic extraction based on the Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a currency current life of mine plan in the components of the ore body that have other than US dollars they are translated into US dollars using the been made more accessible through the stripping activity.
Capitalised exchange rates on the date when the fair value was determined.
open pit mine development costs are depreciated once the open pit has entered production and the future economic benefit is being derived.
The following exchange rates to the US dollar have been applied: j Revenue recognition Average As at Year ended Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence exists that all of the 31 December 31 December following criteria are met: 2017 2017 South African rand US$:ZAR 12.36 13.30 the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: Tanzanian shilling US$:TZS 2,230.07 2,229.00 Australian dollar US$:AUD 1.28 1.30 neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually UK pound US$:GBP 0.74 0.78 associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold has been retained: Average As at Year ended the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: 31 December 31 December it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale 2016 2016 will flow to the Group: and South African rand US$:ZAR 13.70 14.66 the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be Tanzanian shilling US$:TZS 2,172.62 2,177.24 measured reliably.
Australian dollar US$:AUD 1.38 1.34 UK pound US$:GBP 0.81 0.74 Gold dor sales Gold dor is unrefined gold bullion bars usually consisting of 90% h Determination of ore reserves gold that is refined to pure gold bullion prior to sale to our customers.
The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based Revenue from gold dor sales is recognised at the time of sale on information compiled by Qualified Persons as defined in accordance to a third party.
The sales price is based on the gold spot price with the Canadian Securities Administrators National Instrument at the time ofsale.
43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects requirements.
Concentrate sales Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year.
Proven and Concentrate is a processing product containing the valuable ore mineral probable 2P reserves, and for certain mines other mineral resources, gold, copper and silver from which most of the waste mineral has been determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, eliminated, that undergoes a smelting process to convert it into gold amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine bullion, copper and silver concentrate.
Under the terms of concentrate stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payments related sales contracts with independent smelting companies, gold, copper and to the environmental rehabilitation provision.
silver in concentrate is sold at trailing monthly average spot prices based In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral on contract quotational periods.
resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree Revenue is recorded at the shipped on board date, which is also when of confidence of economic extraction.
risks and rewards pass to the smelting companies, using market prices There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, on the expected date that final sales prices will be fixed.
Variations and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change between the price recorded at the shipment date and the actual final significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the price set under the smelting contracts are caused by changes in market forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or prices, and result in an embedded derivative in accounts receivable.
recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, The embedded derivative is recorded at fair value each period until final ultimately, result in the reserves being revised.
settlement occurs, with changes in fair value classified as provisional price adjustments and included as a component of revenue.
i Stripping costs In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden Co-products and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be Revenue from the sale of co-products, such as copper and silver, extracted economically.
The process of mining overburden and waste contained in dor or concentrates are recognised in revenue.
materials is referred to as stripping.
Stripping costs incurred in order k Cost of sales to provide initial access to the ore body referred to as pre-production Cost of sales consists of direct mining costs which include personnel stripping are capitalised as mine development costs.
costs, general and administrative costs, energy costs principally diesel Stripping costs incurred during the production stage of a pit are fuel and electricity, maintenance and repair costs, operating supplies, accounted for as the costs of the inventory produced during the period external services, third-party smelting, refining and transport fees, that the stripping costs were incurred, unless these costs provide a and depreciation related to sales as well as production taxes and royalty future economic benefit to an identifiable component of the ore body.
Cost of sales is based on average costing for Production phase stripping costs generate a future economic benefit contained or recoverable ounces sold as well as production taxes and when the related stripping activity: i improves access to a component royalty expense for the period.
All costs are net of any impairment to of the ore body to be mined in the future: ii increases the fair value reduce inventory to its net realisable value.
of the mine or pit as access to future mineral reserves becomes less costly: iii increases the productive capacity or extends the productive ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Evaluation expenditures incurred at greenfield and brownfield sites are expensed as incurred, unless it can be demonstrated that the related l Exploration and evaluation evaluation expenditures will generate a future economic benefit.
Exploration expenditures Exploration expenditures relate to the initial search for mineral Evaluation expenditures incurred at operating mines development deposits with economic potential as well as expenditures incurred projects are capitalised as a component of property, plant and for the purposes of obtaining more information about existing mineral equipment, Mining properties and development costs, respectively.
Exploration expenditures typically comprise costs that are Acquired exploration and evaluation properties directly attributable to: Exploration and evaluation stage properties acquired either as an researching and analysing existing exploration data: acquisition of individual assets or as part of a business combination are capitalised as an intangible asset, Acquired exploration and evaluation conducting geological studies: properties.
Exploration and evaluation stage properties represent exploratory drilling and sampling for the purposes of obtaining core interests in properties that do not have mineralised material classified samples and the related metallurgical assay of these cores: and within proven and probable reserves.
The value of such properties drilling to determine the volume and grade of deposits in an area known is primarily driven by the nature and amount of mineralised material to contain mineral resources or for the purposes of converting mineral contained in such properties, including value attributable to the rights resources into proven and probable reserves.
to explore or develop: i a property containing mineralised material classified as a measured, indicated or inferred resource: or ii a Exploration expenditures incurred at greenfield sites sites where prospective greenfield property with significant exploration potential.
the Group does not have any mineral deposits that are already being Exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred on such properties mined or developed are typically expensed as incurred, unless it can subsequent to their acquisition are expensed as incurred until the be demonstrated that the related evaluation expenditures will generate technical and commercial viability of developing the property has been a future economic benefit.
Exploration expenditures incurred at demonstrated under the same criteria described above for exploration brownfield sites sites that are adjacent to a mineral deposit that is and evaluation expenditures.
classified within proven and probable reserves and are already being mined or developed are capitalised if the following criteria are met: m Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net profit for the period the drilling is being done in an inferred or measured and indicated attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average resource: and number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings there is an existing proven and probable reserve that is contiguous per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if additional or adjacent to where the drilling is being done: and Ordinary Shares are assumed to be issued under securities that entitle it is probable that the resource will be converted to a proven and their holders to obtain Ordinary Shares in the future.
For share options, probable reserve.
the number of additional shares for inclusion in diluted earnings per share calculations is determined using the treasury share method.
The assessment of probability is based on the following factors: Under this method, share options, whose exercise price is less than results from previous drill programmes: results from a geological study: the average market price of our Ordinary Shares, are assumed to be results from a mine scoping study confirming economic viability of the exercised and the proceeds are used to repurchase Ordinary Shares resource: and preliminary estimates of the volume and grade of the at the average market price for the period.
The incremental number deposit, and the net cash flows expected to be generated from its of Ordinary Shares issued under share options and repurchased from development.
Costs incurred at brownfield sites that meet the above proceeds is included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
criteria are capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment mine development costs pursuant to IAS 16, Property, Plant and n Inventories Equipment.
All other drilling and related exploration costs incurred Material extracted from the Groups mines is classified as either at these sites are expensed as mine site exploration.
Ore represents material that, at the time of extraction, expenditures incurred for the purposes of determining additional is expected to be processed into a saleable form and sold at a profit.
information on a mineral deposit that is classified within proven and Waste represents material that is required to be removed to access probable reserves or for the purposes of extending an existing mineral ore bodies.
Ore stockpiles are classified within inventory as material deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves and is is extracted from the open pit or underground mine.
Ore is accumulated already being mined or developed are also capitalised as mine in stockpiles that are subsequently processed into gold in a saleable development costs.
form under a mine plan that takes into consideration optimal scheduling of production of our reserves, present plant capacity, and the market Evaluation expenditures price of gold and copper.
Work in process inventory represents gold, Evaluation expenditures arise from a detailed assessment of deposits copper and silver in the processing circuit that has not completed the or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential production process, and is not yet in a saleable form.
Finished goods in order to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability.
inventory represents gold in saleable form that has not yet been shipped.
They typically include costs directly attributable to: Mine operating supplies represent commodities and other raw materials detailed engineering studies: consumed in the production process, as well as spare parts and other examination and testing of extraction methods and metallurgical maintenance supplies that are not classified as capital items.
Inventories treatment processes: are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with cost being determined on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: are calculated by reference to the cost of inventory at the beginning permitting activities: and of the period together with the cost of inventory produced in a period.
detailed economic evaluations to determine whether development of the reserves is commercially justified, including the preparation of scoping, pre-feasibility and final feasibility studies.
120 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Gold, copper and silver ore contained in stockpiles is measured by Plant and equipment estimating the number of tonnes added and removed from the stockpile, Plant and equipment is recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation and the associated estimate of gold contained therein based on assay and applicable impairment losses.
Cost includes all expenditures data and applying estimated metallurgical recovery rates based on incurred to prepare an asset for its intended use including: the the expected processing method.
Stockpile ore tonnages are verified purchase price: brokers commissions: and installation costs including by periodic surveys.
Costs are allocated to ore stockpiles based on architectural, design and engineering fees, legal fees, survey costs, quantities of material stockpiled using current mining costs incurred site preparation costs, freight charges, transportation insurance costs, up to the point of stockpiling the ore and include: direct labour costs: duties and borrowing cost.
materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the Costs that extend the productive capacity or useful economic life of an extraction of ore, including an allocation of stripping costs attributable asset are capitalised.
Costs incurred that do not extend the productive to current period production: an allocation of mine site overhead costs: capacity or useful economic life of an asset are considered repairs and and depreciation of mining properties and property, plant and equipment maintenance and expensed as incurred.
used in the extraction of ore, reduced by an allocation of capitalised stripping costs.
As ore is processed, costs are removed based on The Group enters into leasing arrangements and arrangements that recoverable quantities of gold and the stockpiles average cost per unit.
are in substance leasing arrangements.
The determination of whether Ore that is not expected to be processed in the 12 months following an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance the balance sheet date is classified as non-current.
of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or Costs capitalised in process and finished goods inventory include: assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
the cost of stockpiles processed: the cost of commodities and raw A reassessment after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
materials consumed in the production process: direct labour: repair Leasing arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and and maintenance costs: energy costs: depreciation of property, plant rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group are classified as and equipment used in the production process: and an allocation financeleases.
of mine site overhead costs.
Costs are removed from finished goods inventory and recorded in cost of sales based on the average cost Finance leases are recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability per ounce of gold, copper and silver sold in the period.
at an amount equal to the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum Cost of mine operating supplies is the purchase cost, including allocated lease payments over the term of the lease.
Each lease payment is freight costs where applicable.
allocated between the liability and finance costs using the effective Provisions are recorded to reduce ore stockpiles, work in process and interest method, whereby a constant rate of interest expense is finished goods inventory to net realisable value where the net realisable recognised on the balance of the liability outstanding.
The interest value of the inventory is lower than its cost at each balance sheet date.
element of the lease is charged to the income statement as a finance Net realisable value is determined with reference to relevant market expense.
The property, plant and equipment assets acquired under prices less applicable variable selling expenses.
Provisions recorded also finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the reflect an estimate of the remaining costs of completion to bring the asset and the lease term.
All other leases are classified as operating inventory into its saleable form.
Provisions are recorded to reduce mine leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in operating supplies to net realisable value, which is generally calculated the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
by reference to its salvage or scrap value, when it is determined that the Assets under construction supplies are slow moving and or obsolete.
Provisions are reversed to Assets in the course of construction at both our development projects reflect subsequent recoveries in net realisable value where the inventory and operating mines are capitalised in the assets under construction is still on hand at the balance sheet date.
The cost of assets under construction comprises its purchase o Property, plant and equipment price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working Mineral properties and mine development costs condition for its intended use, at which point it is transferred to property, Mineral properties and mine development costs are stated at cost, plant and equipment and depreciation commences.
Development less accumulated depreciation and applicable accumulated impairment projects are recorded at cost, less applicable accumulated impairment losses.
The acquisition cost of a mineral property is the estimated losses.
Development projects represent interests in properties that fair value of proven and probable reserves and measured, indicated contain proven and probable reserves and where development activities and inferred resources acquired as a result of a business combination are on-going.
The cost of development projects is composed of: the or asset acquisition.
Where the asset is acquired separately, the estimated fair value of development stage assets acquired as a result cost is given the fair value of the consideration given.
Capitalised mine of a business combination or an asset acquisition: and costs associated development costs include: pre-production stripping costs: production with the construction of tangible assets, such as processing plants, stripping costs that result in a future economic benefit refer to Note 2i permanent housing facilities and other tangible infrastructure associated for capitalisation criteria for stripping costs : costs incurred to access with the project.
Assets under construction also contain deposits reserves at underground mining operations: and exploration and on long lead items.
The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation evaluation expenditures that result in a probable future economic activities is initially included in assets under construction and benefit refer to Note 2i for capitalisation criteria for exploration and subsequently transferred to Mineral Properties.
Development costs incurred at underground mines to build new shafts, drifts and ramps that provide physical access to the underground ore are capitalised as incurred.
These costs can be incurred throughout the life of the underground mine.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Goodwill is not amortised: rather it is tested annually for impairment in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
Goodwill impairments Depreciation are not reversible.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated, net of residual value, over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter, on a q Intangible assets straight-line basis.
For mineral properties and mine development costs, Intangible assets acquired by way of an asset acquisition or business the economic benefits of the assets are consumed in a pattern which combination are recognised if the asset is separable or arises from is linked to the production level.
Such assets are depreciated on a unit contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on of production basis.
Depreciation commences when assets are available initial recognition.
On acquisition of a mineral property in the exploration for their intended use.
In applying the units of production method, stage, we prepare an estimate of the fair value attributable to the depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of gold, copper exploration potential, including mineral resources, if any, of that property.
and silver extracted from the mine or pit in the period as a percentage The fair value of the exploration potential is recorded as an intangible of the total quantity of material expected to be extracted in current asset acquired exploration potential as at the date of acquisition.
and future periods based on estimates of recoverable proven and When an exploration stage property moves into development, any probable reserves and, for some mines, mineral resources.
Such acquired exploration intangible asset balance attributable to that non-reserve material may be included in the depreciation calculations property is transferred to non-depreciable mining interests within where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction property, plant and equipment.
and the production of the non-reserve material is reflected in the life Impairment testing and the reversal of impairments are conducted of mineplan.
in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an ore body and r Impairment of non-current assets which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves are depreciated Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or at any time during the over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of that discrete year if an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
Discrete sections include capitalised underground development and test the carrying amounts of intangible assets when events or costs or production stripping costs incurred for the purposes of providing changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may access to specific ore blocks or areas of the mine and which only provide not be recoverable.
an economic benefit over the period of mining that ore block or area.
Development costs incurred which benefit the entire ore body are Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if there is depreciated over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of the any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss shall be recognised for a CGU if, and only if, the The expected depreciation rates of the major categories of assets are recoverable amount of the unit is less than the carrying amount of the asfollows: unit.
The impairment loss shall first be allocated to goodwill and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount 1 of each asset in the unit.
Mineral properties and development costs UOP 4% 25% Plant and equipment An impairment loss recognised in prior years for non-financial assets Underground mobile equipment 14.3% 20% other than goodwill shall be reversed if, and only if, there has been Light vehicles and other mobile equipment 33.3% 50% change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable Furniture, computer and office equipment 33.3% 50% amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
This reversal is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is limited 1 U OP indicates assets which are depreciated on the basis of units of production to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of any UOP, in this case ounces of gold, copper and silver produced in a period divided by the total recoverable reserves and resources of gold, copper and silver expected to depreciation, had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
After be mined based on the current life of mine plans.
such a reversal, any depreciation charge is adjusted prospectively.
Each assets estimated residual value and useful life is reviewed, The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the and adjusted if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The estimate of higher of value in use VIU being the net present value NPV residual value and useful life is based on the physical condition and of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair life limitations of buildings, plant and equipment and the present value less costs to dispose FVLCD.
Impairment assessments are assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine for the conducted at the level of CGUs, which is the lowest level for which mining property and development cost asset.
Changes to the estimated identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
Each operating mine and development project represents a p Goodwill CGU for impairment testing purposes.
An impairment loss is recognised Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair for any excess of carrying amount of a CGU over its recoverable amount.
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities The FVLCD of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially determined based the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
Fair values are finalised within 12 months of There is no active market for the Groups CGUs.
Consequently, FVLCD the acquisition date.
For non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, non-controlling is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future interests are initially recorded based on the minorities proportion of the cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
Cost to sell is based on managements best estimates of future selling Goodwill that is acquired through business combinations is allocated costs at the time of calculating FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the sale to Cash Generating Units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected of a CGU are not considered significant.
to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
Each of the Groups CGUs that has an allocation of goodwill is also an operating segment as defined by IFRS 8.
Consequently, goodwill is tested for impairment at the individual CGU level.
122 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived s Other reserves from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of The Company did not exist until 12 January 2010, and did not become production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM the parent company for the Group until 22 February 2010 when plan for each CGU, which are updated on an annual basis.
The Groups the transfer of the members of the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves and convertible Reorganisation was completed.
As part of the IPO Reorganisation in resources and are based on detailed research, analysis and modelling 2010 a distributable reserve was created following a capital reduction.
to optimise the internal rate of return for each CGU.
As such, these plans t Share capital consider the optimal level of investment, overall production levels and Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly sequence of extraction taking into account all relevant characteristics attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity of the ore body, including waste-to-ore tonnes ratios, ore grades, as a deduction from the proceeds.
haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties impacting process recoveries and capacities of available extraction, haulage and processing u Provisions equipment.
Projected future revenues reflect the forecasted future Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation production levels at each CGU as detailed in the LOM plans.
Included legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that in these forecasts is the production of some mineral resources that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and do not currently qualify for inclusion in proven and probable ore reserves a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the where there is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined This is consistent with the approach that a market participant would by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that utilise in preparing a forecast of expected production levels.
Projected reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, future revenues also reflect the Groups estimate of long-term gold where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting prices, which is determined based on current prices, an analysis of is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is the expected total production costs of producers and forward pricing recognised as a finance cost.
curves and forecasts of expected long-term prices prepared by research Rehabilitation costs analysts.
These estimates often differ from current price levels, but The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group this methodology is consistent with how a market participant would normally give rise to obligations for environmental rehabilitation.
Rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning and dismantling, The estimates of future cash costs of production and capital removal or treatment of waste materials and site and land rehabilitation.
expenditures are derived from the LOM plans for each CGU.
Costs The extent of work required and the associated costs are based on legal incurred in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US and constructive requirements and dependent on the requirements of dollars using expected long-term exchange rates based on the relevant relevant authorities and the Groups .
forward pricing curve for that currency.
Oil prices are a significant Provisions for the cost of each rehabilitation programme are recognised component, both directly and indirectly, of the expected cash costs at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
When the extent of production.
Estimates for long-term oil prices used in the LOM plans of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, the provision are based on the spot price at the time, the forward pricing curve and is increased accordingly.
The major parts of the carrying amount of long-term oil price forecasts prepared by analysts.
provisions relate to tailings pond closure rehabilitation: demolition The discount rate applied to present value is based upon the real of buildings mine facilities: on-going water treatment: and on-going weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGU.
The discount care and maintenance of closed mines.
Costs included in the provision rate reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected to occur of the remaining economic life of the CGU and the risks associated progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure with the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGU in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk included in the determination of the provision reflect the risks and premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit default probabilities of alternative estimates of cash flows required to settle swap spreads for the period.
the obligation at each particular operation.
Routine operating costs that may impact the ultimate closure and rehabilitation activities, such as In determining FVLCD, a market multiple is applied to the NPV of each waste material handling conducted as an integral part of a mining or CGU.
Gold companies typically trade at a market capitalisation that production process, are not included in the provision.
Costs arising is based on a multiple of their underlying NPV.
Consequently, a market from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination caused by participant would generally apply an NPV multiple when estimating unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when the fair value of a gold property.
The NPV multiple utilised in the the event occurs that gives rise to an obligation and reliable estimates determination of the FVLCD of a CGU considers the NPV multiples of the required rehabilitation costs can be made.
These observed multiples are primarily derived from research analyst reports and take into The timing of the actual rehabilitation expenditure is dependent upon a consideration the following: i estimate of underlying NPV prepared by number of factors such as the life and nature of the asset, the operating the analyst: ii estimate of target market capitalisation prepared by the licence conditions and the environment in which the mine operates.
analyst: iii market capitalisation on the date of the analyst report: and Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for iv market capitalisation on the date of the impairment test.
The NPV an extended period of time depending on rehabilitation requirements.
multiple applied also takes into consideration the remaining economic The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid over periods life of the CGU.
For CGUs with a remaining economic life of five years or of up to 30 years with some payments into perpetuity.
Rehabilitation less, an NPV multiple on the lower end of the observed multiple range is provisions are measured at the expected value of future cash flows, utilised.
For other CGUs, the median observed NPV multiple is utilised.
discounted to their present value using a current, market-based estimate of the real risk-free pre-tax discount rates.
The unwinding of the discount The VIU of a CGU is generally lower than its FVLCD, due primarily to is included in finance expense and results in an increase in the amount the inclusion of future, as yet unapproved, capital expenditure when of the provision.
Provisions are updated each reporting period for the determining its FVLCD.
Consequently, the recoverable amount of a CGU effect of a change in the discount rate and the change in estimate is for impairment testing purposes is determined based on its FVLCD.
added or deducted from the related asset and depreciated prospectively over the assets useful life.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Long-term incentive plans Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming The Company has a cash-settled, Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for expectations of future activities and the amount and timing of the select employees.
Under the terms of the RSU plan, selected employees associated cash flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing are granted RSUs where each RSU has a value equal to one Ordinary environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, Group Share of the Company.
RSUs granted to Executive Directors and the environmental policies which give rise to a constructive obligation.
other members of the Executive Leadership Team vest based on the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance against the When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, market cap-weighted TSR of a comparator group of companies over the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part the vesting period referred to as Performance RSUs.
RSUs vest over of the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation.
a two-and-a-half or three-year period and are settled in cash.
Additional The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is recognised RSUs are credited to reflect dividends paid on Ordinary Shares of the in property, plant and equipment and depreciated accordingly.
Company during the vesting period with a corresponding charge to the It is possible that managements estimates of provisions could change compensation expense.
A liability for RSUs is measured at fair value on as a result of changes in regulations, the extent of rehabilitation required, the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting and the means of reclamation or cost estimates.
Rehabilitation period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
provisions are adjusted as a result of changes in estimates.
Those At the grant date the fair value of the awards is determined from the adjustments are accounted for as a change in the corresponding value market value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any of the related asset, except where a reduction in the provision is greater market based vesting conditions attached to the award e. g. relative than the remaining net book value of the related assets, in which case TSR performance.
Changes in the fair value of the RSU liability, due to the value is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment is recognised in changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded the income statement.
In the case of closed sites, changes to estimated each period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes Compensation expenses recognised for RSUs incorporate an estimate to the capitalised cost result in an adjustment to future depreciation for expected forfeiture rates.
The expected forfeiture is estimated based and finance expense.
On an annual basis, the Group reviews for changes on historical forfeiture rates of the Group and expectations of future in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
Adjustments to compensation expense are recognised v Employee benefits in periods where the actual forfeiture rate differs from the expected rate.
The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation LTIP deferred share units plan the Share Option Plan, a long-term incentive plan the LTIP, Under the Deferred Share Unit DSU plan, the Non-Executive Directors a legacy restricted share unit plan the Legacy RSU Plan and can elect to receive all or part of their annual director fees in DSUs.
Each a deferred share unit plan the DSU Plan.
DSU has the same value as one Acacia Ordinary Share.
DSUs must be Share-based payments retained until the Director leaves the Board, at which time the cash value Share options of the DSU is paid out.
Additional DSUs are credited to reflect dividends Share options can be granted under either the Company LTIP or the paid on Acacia Ordinary Shares.
A liability for DSUs is measured at Share Option Plan.
The Company receives services from employees fair value on the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair over the vesting period, with a corresponding charge to the Directors value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the compensation expense.
At the grant date the fair value of the awards options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined from the market value of the shares at the date of award.
is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: Changes in the fair value of the DSU liability, due to changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded each period, with including any market performance conditions: a corresponding charge to the Directors compensation expense.
excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance LTIP zero cost options vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and Members of the Executive Leadership Team are granted nil-cost options remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period : and where each option has a value equal to one Ordinary Share of the excluding the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
Nil-cost options granted vest subject to the assessment of the Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about Companys TSR performance against a comparator group of companies the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is over the vesting period.
Nil-cost options vest over a five year period and recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all when exercised the Company may issue new shares, procure the transfer of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At the end of each of existing shares to satisfy the exercise or settle the options in cash.
reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the number A liability for nil-cost options is measured at fair value on the grant date of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
At the grant date if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
the fair value of the awards is determined from the market value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for market based vesting When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares conditions attached to the award.
Changes in the fair value of the option or procure the transfer of existing shares to satisfy the exercise.
Where liability, due to changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, shares are issued, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable are recorded each period, with a corresponding charge to the transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share compensation expense.
premium when the options are exercised.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary Compensation expenses recognised for nil-cost options incorporate undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair an estimate for expected forfeiture rates.
The expected forfeiture value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant is estimated based on historical forfeiture rates of the Group and date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase expectations of future forfeiture rates.
Adjustments to compensation to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit expense are recognised in periods where the actual forfeiture rate toequity.
differs from the expected rate.
124 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Defined contribution plan Derivatives The Groups Tanzanian employees are members of either the National Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative Social Security Fund NSSF or the Parastatal Pension Fund PPF, contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair which are defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on a plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all derivatives as: employees the benefits relating to the employee service in the current a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm and prior periods.
The Group and employees both contribute 10% of commitment fair value hedge : or the employees gross salaries to the schemes.
The contributions are charged to the income statement when they are due.
b h edges of the income cost of a highly probable forecast transaction or commitment cash flow hedge : or Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee investmenthedge.
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group The Group documents at inception of the transaction the relationship recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk to either: terminating the employment of current employees according management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary inception and on an on-going basis, of whether the derivatives that are redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes sheet date are discounted to their present value.
in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Bonus plans The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where it is purposes are disclosed in Note 30.
Movements in the hedging reserve contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created are shown in other comprehensive income.
The full fair value of a hedging a constructive obligation.
derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the Other entitlements remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, The estimated monetary liability for employees accrued annual and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the leave entitlement at the balance sheet date is recognised as an hedged item is less than 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classified expenseaccrual.
as a current asset or liability.
w Financial instruments a Fair value hedge Cash and cash equivalents Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together value.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are include cash, and money market funds.
For the purposes of the cash flow attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash portion is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within other charges.
Changes in the fair value of Loans and receivables the hedge attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or statement within finance costs.
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the value through profit and loss or available for sale.
These are initially adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the recognised at fair value, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over using the effective interest method.
They are included in current assets, the period to maturity.
except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet b Cash flow hedge date.
These are classified as non-current assets, where the receivables The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are discounted and held at their net present value.
are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective assets and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within other charges.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss relating the expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The to the effective portion is recognised in the income statement.
However, carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition account.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the of a non-financial asset for example, inventory or fixed assets, the gains incomestatement.
and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in cost of goods sold in the case of inventory or in depreciation in the case of property, plant and equipment.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued z Taxes When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive in the incomestatement.
income or directly in equity, respectively.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the Current income tax cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods transferred to the income statement within other charges.
are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions c Net investment hedge taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where similarly to cash flow hedges.
appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in sheetdate.
Deferred income tax Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting Embedded derivatives purposes.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates enacted Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with apply when the related deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are differences can be utilised.
separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary Financial liabilities differences, except: Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability rate method.
in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time x Finance income and finance expense of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the profit or loss: and effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the investments in subsidiaries deferred income tax assets are recognised estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available interestincome.
against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Interest is recognised as a borrowing cost on a time proportion basis The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs that relate directly each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer to the construction of property, plant and equipment during the time that probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all it is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use are or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each y Other income charges balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become Other income charges comprises one-off credits or costs relating to probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to non-routine transactions included in profit and loss.
credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate, if of a similar type, are of a nature or size that requires explanation in order to provide additional insight into the underlying business performance.
126 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates bb Leases that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries basis over the period of the lease.
raised and additional tax assessments issued, have been measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets lease payments.
against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes Each finance lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, Indirect tax are included in other liabilities.
The interest element of the finance Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment taken in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions or useful life of the asset and the lease term.
receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be cc Dividend distribution paid to or received from the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which enacted by the balance sheet date.
If the receivable is expected the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
to be received in more than 12 months from year-end, the receivable is discounted and held at its present value.
Segment reporting be payable or receivable in more than 12 months are classified as The Group has only one primary product produced in a single geographic non-current assets or liabilities in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
location, being gold produced in Tanzania.
In addition, the Group produces copper and silver as a co-product.
Reportable operating aa Royalties segments are based on the internal reports provided to the Chief Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are in place at Operating Decision Maker CODM to evaluate segment performance, each operating mine.
The primary type of royalty is a net smelter return decide how to allocate resources and make other operating decisions.
Under this type of royalty the Group pays the holder an After applying the aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds amount calculated as the royalty percentage multiplied by the value of contained in IFRS 8, the Groups reportable operating segments were gold production at market gold prices less third-party smelting, refining determined to be: North Mara gold mine: Bulyanhulu gold mine: Buzwagi and transportation costs.
gold mine: and a separate Corporate and Exploration segment, which The North Mara mine is also subject to a land royalty land tenements primarily consists of costs related to other charges and corporate social LT based on the net revenue derived from the open pit mines.
Royalty expense is recorded when revenue from the sale of gold, copper Segment results and carrying values include items directly attributable and silver production is recognised.
to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment carrying values are disclosed and calculated as The following percentages apply: shareholders equity after adding back debt and inter-company liabilities, and subtracting cash and inter-company assets.
Segment liabilities are 1 Bulyanhulu 6% NSR not reported since they are not considered by the CODM as material 1 6% NSR, 1% LT North Mara Nyabirama and Nyabigena pits to segment performance.
Capital expenditures comprise additions to 1 North Mara Gokona pit and underground 6% NSR, 1.1% LT property, plant and equipment.
The Group has also included segment 1 2 Buzwagi 6% NSR, 30% NPI cash costs per ounce sold and all-in sustaining cost per ounce sold non-IFRS financial performance measures.
Segment information for 1 T he Group agreed to a voluntary 1% increase in the NSR royalty rate in 2012, and since early July 2017 satisfied the requirements imposed by new legislation as the reportable operating segments of the Group for the years ended regards the increased royalty rate applicable to metallic minerals such as gold, 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 is set out overleaf.
copper and silver of 6% 2016: 4%, in addition to a new 1% clearing fee on mineral exports.
These payments are being made under protest, without prejudice to our legal rights under our MDAs 2 T he NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine after all capital, exploration and development costs and interest incurred in relation to the Buzwagi mine have been recouped and all operating costs relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid.
No amount is currently payable.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Segment reporting continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 in thousands of United States dollars, except per ounce amounts North Mara Bulyanhulu Buzwagi Other Total Gold revenue 406,917 134,110 203,267 744,294 Co-product revenue 1,296 2,937 2,988 7,221 Total segment revenue 408,213 137,047 206,255 751,515 1 Segment cash operating cost 163,001 93,521 98,417 354,939 Realised losses on gold hedges 1,294 1,399 2,693 Corporate administration 8,313 6,314 5,694 6,592 26,913 Share-based payments 511 593 349 6,783 8,236 Exploration and evaluation costs 571 24,258 24,829 Other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses 13,243 52,916 13,605 18,819 98,583 2 EBITDA 225,461 15,682 90,287 42,886 257,180 Impairment charges 837,921 12,261 850,182 4 Depreciation and amortisation 54,826 46,531 4,288 556 106,201 2 EBIT 170,635 900,134 85,999 55,703 699,203 Finance income 1,944 Finance expense 12,407 Profit before taxation 709,666 Tax expense 2,272 Net profit for the year 707,394 Capital expenditure: Sustaining 20,927 9,033 4,338 1,259 35,557 Expansionary 10,270 1,190 113 11,573 Capitalised development 61,066 39,543 100,609 92,263 49,766 4,338 1,372 147,739 Non-cash capital expenditure adjustments Reclamation asset adjustment 2,951 4,158 1,978 9,087 Total capital expenditure 89,312 45,608 2,360 1,372 138,652 Segmental cash operating cost 163,001 93,521 98,417 354,939 Deduct: co-product revenue 1,296 2,937 2,988 7,221 Total cash costs 161,705 90,584 95,429 347,718 Sold ounces 324,455 107,855 160,552 592,861 2 Cash cost per ounce sold 498 840 594 587 Corporate administration charges 26 59 35 45 Share-based payments 2 6 2 14 Rehabilitation accretion and depreciation 11 20 5 11 Corporate social responsibility expenses 11 10 8 14 Capitalised stripping UG development 188 367 170 Sustaining capital expenditure 71 83 27 62 2 All-in sustaining cost per ounce sold 803 1,373 667 875 3 Segment carrying value 249,170 600,359 194,385 82,864 1,126,778 128 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2016 in thousands of United States dollars, except per ounce amounts North Mara Bulyanhulu Buzwagi Other Total Gold revenue 468,340 345,481 200,648 1,014,469 Co-product revenue 953 15,447 22,663 39,063 Total segment revenue 469,293 360,928 223,311 1,053,532 1 Segment cash operating cost 155,344 217,226 188,896 561,466 Realised losses on gold hedges 1,818 1,818 Corporate administration 7,954 5,975 4,176 3,790 21,895 Share-based payments 623 518 470 28,318 29,929 Exploration and evaluation costs 297 3,532 20,191 24,020 Other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses 2,295 3,442 723 7,444 984 2 EBITDA 302,780 130,235 27,228 44,855 415,388 Impairment charges 4 Depreciation and amortisation 67,472 82,022 12,668 1,634 163,796 2 EBIT 235,308 48,213 14,560 46,489 251,592 Finance income 1,512 Finance expense 11,047 Profit before taxation 242,057 Tax expense 147,113 Net profit for the year 94,944 Capital expenditure: Sustaining 23,558 20,231 3,582 1,416 48,787 Expansionary 2,399 1,262 3,661 Capitalised development 75,609 63,082 138,691 101,566 84,575 3,582 1,416 191,139 Non-cash capital expenditure adjustments Reclamation asset adjustment 6,703 10,728 4,524 21,955 Total capital expenditure 108,269 95,303 8,106 1,416 213,094 Segmental cash operating cost 155,344 217,226 188,896 561,466 Deduct: co-product revenue 953 15,447 22,663 39,063 Total cash costs 154,391 201,779 166,233 522,403 Sold ounces 376,255 279,286 161,202 816,743 2 Cash cost per ounce sold 410 722 1,031 640 Corporate administration charges 21 21 26 27 Share-based payments 2 2 3 37 Rehabilitation accretion and depreciation 9 7 3 7 Corporate social responsibility expenses 15 6 10 13 Capitalised stripping UG development 201 226 170 Sustaining capital expenditure 75 74 22 64 2 All-in sustaining cost per ounce sold 733 1,058 1,095 958 3 Segment carrying value 246,175 1,231,793 97,243 82,710 1,657,921 1 T he CODM reviews cash operating costs for the three operating mine sites separately from corporate administration costs and exploration costs.
Consequently, the Group has reported these costs in this manner.
2 These are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS.
Refer to Non IFRS measures on page 171 for definitions.
3 S egment carrying values are calculated as shareholders equity after adding back debt and inter-company liabilities, and subtracting cash and inter-company assets and include outside shareholders interest.
4 Depreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost of inventory sold.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 129 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
Revenue For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Gold dor sales 720,755 739,317 Gold concentrate sales 23,539 275,152 Copper concentrate sales 4,001 32,658 Silver sales 3,220 6,405 Total 751,515 1,053,532 1 C oncentrate sales includes negative provisional price adjustments to the accounts receivable balance due to changes in market gold, silver and copper prices prior to final settlement as follows: US$3.6 million for the year ended 31 December 2017 US$7.0 million for the year ended 31 December 2016.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 2 Revenue by location of customer Europe Switzerland 140,691 488,383 Germany 11,615 58,747 Asia India 582,943 253,881 China 437 176,143 Japan 15,829 76,378 Total revenue 751,515 1,053,532 2 Revenue by location of customer is determined based on the country to which the gold is delivered.
Included in revenues for the year ended 31 December 2017 are sales to six major customers.
Revenues of approximately US$739 million 2016: US$913 million arose from sales to four of the Groups largest customers.
Cost of sales For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Direct mining costs 299,591 479,022 Third-party smelting costs 9,675 25,588 1 Depreciation 106,201 163,796 Realised losses on economic hedges 743 9,619 Realised gains losses on gold hedges 2,693 1,818 Royalty expense 44,930 47,237 2 Total 458,447 727,080 1 Depreciation includes the depreciation component relating to the cost of inventory sold.
2 Cost of sales less depreciation equals cash operating costs.
Impairment In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 38 Intangible Assets a review for impairment of goodwill is undertaken annually, or at any time an indicator of impairment is considered to exist, and in accordance with IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment a review for impairment of long-lived assets is undertaken at any time an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
Acacia has identified triggers for impairment testing of the carrying value of its assets, including but not limited to the challenges experienced in the operating environment in Tanzania, the announcement of new legislation by the GoT in respect of the natural resources sector and Acacias decision to reduce operations at Bulyanhulu in light of the deterioration in operating environment.. As a result, the Group has undertaken a carrying value assessment of its affected Cash Generating Units CGUs and long life intangible assets.
The assessment compared the recoverable amount of CGU to the carrying value of the CGUs including goodwill.
The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use VIU, being the net present value NPV of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair value less costs to dispose FVLCD.
The FVLCD of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
There is no active market for the Groups CGUs.
Consequently, FVLCD is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
Cost to dispose is based on managements best estimates of future selling costs at the time of calculating FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the disposal of a CGU are not considered significant.
130 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the purpose of carrying value assessments in accordance with applicable accounting standards, Acacia has based its calculation of future cash flows of the affected CGUs by reference to key terms of the framework announcements by Barrick and by the GoT in October 2017.
Based on Barricks announcements and its discussions and exchanges with Acacia, it is Barricks belief that it will be able to agree with the GoT a detailed proposal for a comprehensive settlement of the situation, and that this will be in a form that Barrick could recommend to Acacia for review and approval.
Key assumptions applied in these calculations include a 50% economic share of future economic benefits for the GoT in the form of taxes, royalties and a 16% free carry interest in the CGUs, as well as a US$300 million payment in relation to historical tax claims paid in instalments as concentrate sales recommence.
In addition, the framework announcements provided for Acacia to contribute certain monies to fund specific projects in Tanzania.
For the purposes of the carrying value assessments, Acacia has assumed that concentrate sales will resume from 1 July 2018 and Bulyanhulu will return to full operation towards the end of 2019, VAT refunds will recommence and historic carried forward tax losses will continue to be available to offset against future taxable profits.
Barrick has previously announced that it is targeting H1 2018 for agreement of the detailed terms and documentation for a comprehensive settlement reflecting the key terms of the framework announcements.
Acacia continues to provide support to Barrick in its discussions with the GoT, Acacia has not yet received for review and approval a detailed proposal that has been agreed between Barrick and the GoT, and no conclusions can be made by Acacia as to whether any particular terms of settlement would be approved by Acacia.
In the meantime, Acacia continues to reserve its rights included under our Mine and Development Agreements, the disputes between Acacia and the GoT have not yet been resolved, and PML and BGML remain in international arbitration with the GoT.
Acacia continues to prefer a negotiated resolution, but believes that there remain a range of potential outcomes to the current situation.
Acacia considers that, in conducting the review of carrying values in accordance with applicable accounting standards as at 31 December 2017, the discount rate should be increased to a reflect the uncertainty around the final terms of any comprehensive settlement that might be agreed or whether settlement will be reached at all, and b to best reflect the potential reduction in value as a result of the proposed 16% free carry interest for the GoT which cannot otherwise be included in calculations of value at a CGU level conducted on a 100% basis.
Therefore, for the purposes of the carrying value review of the affected CGUs, we have used a discount rate of 11% compared to Acacias updated calculated weighted average cost of capital of 6.5% 2016: 5%.
The key economic assumptions used in the reviews during 2017 and 2016 were: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Gold price per ounce US$1,200 US$1,200 Copper price per pound US$2.75 US$2.25 British Pound US$:GBP 0.76 0.74 Tanzanian Shilling US$:TZS 2,250 2,150 Long-term oil price per barrel US$60 US$60 WACC 6.5% 5% Discount rate used in carrying value review 11% 5% NPV multiples 1 1 The carrying value assessment demonstrates a reduction in value at all three CGUs, however, based on these assumptions Buzwagi and North Mara have headroom above their current carrying values.
At Bulyanhulu, the impact of the changes was greater, due to the long life of the mine and the delay to a return to positive cash generation due to the move to reduced operations.
Acacia has recorded a net impairment of US$632.0 million for Bulyanhulu, which includes a pre-tax write-down of US$122 million for goodwill.
In addition we have recorded an impairment charge of US$12.3 million for the Nyanzaga Project to reflect the impact of the new Mining Laws on the carrying value of the project, which now stands at US$34 million.
The adjusted carrying value for the Group is now approximately US$1.1 billion, made up of US$0.6 billion for Bulyanhulu, US$0.2 billion for North Mara, US$0.2 billion for Buzwagi and US$0.1 billion for exploration and other.
The impairment charges recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December comprise the following: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Bulyanhulu 837,921 1 Nyanzaga exploration property 12,261 Gross impairment charge 850,182 Comprising: Impairment of goodwill 121,546 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 686,375 Impairment of supplies inventory 30,000 Impairment of intangible assets 12,261 Gross impairment charge, before tax 850,182 Deferred income tax 205,912 Total impairment charge 644,270 1 T he Nyanzaga exploration property is located in Tanzania.
Acquired mineral interests exploration and evaluation assets are classified as intangible assets and have indefinite useful lives.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
Impairment continued For purposes of testing for impairment of long-lived assets, we have assessed whether a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions used to estimate the recoverable value for CGUs would result in an impairment charge.
Managements view is that the recoverable values are most sensitive to changes in the assumptions around gold prices, discount rates and the timing of the resolution of the export ban.
As a result, sensitivity calculations were performed for these for each of the CGUs.
The sensitivity analysis is based on a decrease in the long-term gold price of US$100 per ounce, and an increase in the discount rate of 1%, and a delay of resolution by 12 months.
Under these scenarios, a reasonably possible decrease in the gold price assumption of US$100 per ounce would result in an additional impairment charge, net of tax, relating to Bulyanhulu of approximately US$172 million, while a similar increase in gold price would result in a reduction in the impairment charge of similar value.
In addition, given limited headroom, a similar decrease would result in an impairment charge of US$43 million at Buzwagi, whilst at North Mara headroom would be maintained.
Under the assumptions as set out above, a further delay in the resolution of the export ban will result in an additional impairment charge of US$56 million for Bulyanhulu, while headroom is maintained for North Mara and Buzwagi.
A reasonably possible increase in discount rate of 1% would result in an additional impairment relating to Bulyanhulu of US$63 million, with a reasonably possible decrease in discount rate of 1% resulting in a reduction in impairment charges of similar value.
Buzwagi and North Mara would not be affected.
A reasonably possible adverse change in any of the assumptions set out above will result in an additional impairment relating to Nyanzaga.
Should a negotiated resolution of the current situation not eventuate, the recoverable values of the identified CGUs may be further impacted, and these will be reviewed at such time.
Employee benefits For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Wages and salaries 67,400 68,335 Pension and social security costs 8,722 7,729 1 Other employee benefits 59,045 45,509 2 Share-based compensation charge 7,655 34,575 Total 127,512 156,148 1 Other employee benefits include bonuses, leave pay, pensions, medical expenses, severance costs 2017: US$22.0 million: 2016: US$4.5 million and other benefits.
2 S hare-based compensation charges include costs incorporated in corporate administration, cost of sales and other charges as applicable to the relevant employees.
Further details of the Groups share options and other share-based compensation plans are provided in note 24.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December Average number of employees per month 2017 2016 Operations 2,495 2,927 Exploration 43 38 Administration 210 140 Total average headcount 2,748 3,105 8.
Exploration and evaluation costs The following represents a summary of exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred at each mine site.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Expensed during the year: North Mara 297 Bulyanhulu 571 3,532 Kenya 12,208 10,582 West Africa 11,119 7,544 1 Other 931 2,065 Total expensed 24,829 24,020 Capitalised during the year: North Mara 10,270 2,399 Total 35,099 26,419 1 I ncluded in other are the exploration activities conducted through ABG Exploration Limited.
All primary greenfield exploration and evaluation activities are conducted in this company.
132 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9.
Other charges income For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Other expenses Restructuring costs 25,077 7,689 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 13,276 1 Bulyanhulu reduced operations costs 24,804 Foreign exchange losses 2,710 Legal costs 14,421 2,641 One off legal settlement 5,083 Project development costs 1,485 1,123 Inventory write-downs 1,500 Other 5,573 4,583 Total 93,929 16,036 Other income Bad debts recovered 54 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 9,719 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 289 Unrealised non-hedge derivative gains 200 13,031 Foreign exchange gains 1,137 Insurance proceeds 3,455 Other 3,359 Total 3,559 27,685 Total other income charges 90,370 11,649 1 I ncludes US$13.9 million of non-sustaining operating costs allocated, US$4.9 million of contract exit costs and US$6 million of inventory written down as a result of moving to reduced operational state.
Auditors remuneration During the year the Group including its subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditors: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Audit fees Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 447 460 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 437 382 Audit-related assurance services 227 235 Tax compliance services 66 106 Other taxation services 214 260 Other services 10 12 Total 1,401 1,455 11.
Finance income and finance expenses a Finance income For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Interest on time deposits 1,841 1,236 Other 103 276 Total 1,944 1,512 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 133 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11.
Finance income and finance expenses continued b Finance expense For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 1 Unwinding of discount 3,364 2,254 2 Revolving credit facility charges 2,341 2,279 Interest on CIL facility 2,911 3,956 Premium on gold put options 2,113 Interest on finance leases 204 Bank charges 583 701 Other 891 1,857 Total 12,407 11,047 1 The unwinding of discount is calculated on the environmental rehabilitation provision.
2 Included in credit facility charges are the amortisation of the fees related to the revolving credit facility as well as the monthly interest and facility fees.
Tax credit expense For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Current tax: Current tax on profits for the year 35,667 54,508 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 172,000 36,697 Total current tax 207,667 91,205 Deferred tax: 2 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 209,939 55,908 Total deferred tax 209,939 55,908 Income tax credit expense 2,272 147,113 1 I ncluded in 2017 is a provision for uncertain tax positions of US$68.5 million relating to North Mara and US$103.5 million relating to Bulyanhulu, for uncertain tax positions, based on an estimate of the impact of a comprehensive settlement reflecting the key terms of the framework announcements made by Barrick and the GoT in October 2017.
Included in 2016 is a provision for uncertain tax positions of US$30.4 million relating to North Mara, and US$4.4 million relating to Tulawaka, following an adverse tax ruling as reported in Q1 2016.
2 Included in 2016 is a provision for uncertain tax positions of US$35.0 million relating to Bulyanhulu following an adverse tax ruling, as reported in Q1 2016.
The tax on the Groups loss profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the profits of the consolidated entities as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Loss Profit before tax 709,666 242,057 Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries 209,074 73,373 Tax effects of: Difference in tax rates in different jurisdictions 3,826 756 3 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 49,142 247 Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 9,611 76,592 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 25,594 4 Increase in provision for uncertain tax positions 172,000 Other permanent differences 5.469 2,343 Tax credit charge 2,272 147,113 3 Relates mainly to impairment charges relating to goodwill, intangibles and supplies inventory not deductible for tax purposes.
Refer Note 7 for full details.
4 I ncluded in 2017 is a provision for uncertain tax positions of US$68.5 million relating to North Mara and US$103.5 million relating to Bulyanhulu, based on an estimate of the impact of a comprehensive settlement reflecting the key terms of the framework announcements made by Barrick and the GoT in October 2017.
In addition to the net impairment as set out in note 7, to meet applicable accounting standards, Acacia has also raised an additional tax provision of US$172 million relating to the estimated uncertain tax positions for its operating companies.
Acacia has based its calculation on an estimate of the impact of a comprehensive settlement reflecting the key terms of the framework announcements made by Barrick and the GoT in October 2017, including in respect of historical tax claims.
This brings total provisions for Acacias uncertain tax positions to US$300 million.
Acacia continues to reserve and protect all its legal rights, as noted above and including through the arbitrations commenced by BGML and PML, and no liability has been incurred by Acacia as a result of the framework announcements.
The additional provision is required, however, to meet applicable accounting standards requiring assessment of current obligations for accounting purposes based on an assessment of relevant cash outflows from the relevant operating companies in respect of uncertain tax positions.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
134 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of tax periods remain open to review by tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
Loss Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net loss profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has dilutive potential Ordinary Shares in the form of share options.
The weighted average number of shares is adjusted for the number of shares granted assuming the exercise of share options.
At 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Loss Earnings Net loss profit for the year 707,394 94,944 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 410,085,499 410,085,499 Adjusted for dilutive effect of share options 355,514 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 410,085,499 410,441,013 For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Loss Earnings per share Basic loss earnings per share cents 172.5 23.2 Dilutive loss earnings per share cents 172.5 23.1 14. Dividend The final dividend declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 of US$34.4 million US8.4 cents per share was paid during 2017 and recognised in the financial statements.
Acacia has a cash flow based dividend policy where we aim to pay a dividend of between 15-30% of our operational cash flow after sustaining capital and capitalised development but before expansion capital and financing costs.
As a result of the inability to export concentrates Acacia has experienced negative free cash flow in 2017 and therefore the Company did not pay an interim dividend and the Board of Directors has not recommended the payment of a final dividend.
Cash flow other items a Operating cash flows other items Adjustments for working capital items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Increase in indirect tax receivable 51,703 18,224 Prepaid corporate tax 20,000 Income tax paid Final 3,257 Income tax paid Provisional 34,600 20,876 1 Indirect and corporate taxes 89,560 59,100 2 Other current assets 10,774 695 Trade receivables 745 4,472 3 Inventories 172,180 8,312 4 Other liabilities 7,301 33,582 4 Share-based payments 1,780 35,966 5 Trade and other payables 31,170 15,931 6 Other working capital items 1,071 855 Total 313,091 58,497 1 D uring the year, we have made US$34.6 million 2016: US$20.0 million corporate tax provisional payments as well as US$3.3 million final corporate tax payments relating to North Maras 2016 tax assessment.
This has been funded through an offset against current indirect taxes that was due for refund.
2 O ther current assets include North Mara corporate tax deposits paid of US$9.5 million.
3 The inventory adjustment includes the movement in current as well as the non-current portion of inventory.
4 T he other liabilities adjustment mainly relates to the revaluation of future share-based payments.
During the year, share-based payments of US$1.8 million 2016: US$36.0 million were made.
5 The trade and other payables adjustment exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
6 Other working capital items include exchange losses associated with working capital.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 135 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
Cash flow other items continued Other non-cash items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Adjustments for non-cash income statement items: Foreign exchange losses gains 2,900 1,463 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 13,276 9,719 Provisions added 7,550 Provisions settled 8 Movement in derivatives 1,495 13,031 Share option expense 27 77 Other non-cash items 92 36 Exchange loss on revaluation of cash balances 190 258 Total 22,160 23,850 b Investing cash flows other items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment 6,713 Other long-term receivables 194 10 Rehabilitation expenditure 3,106 175 Total 2,912 6,528 c Financing cash flows Net cash reconciliation Cash and cash Borrowings due Borrowings due in thousands of United States dollars equivalents within 1 year after 1 year Total Net cash as at 1 January 2016 233,268 28,400 99,400 105,468 Cash flows 84,781 28,400 113,181 Net foreign exchange difference 258 258 Net cash as at 31 December 2016 317,791 28,400 71,000 218,391 Cash flows 237,468 28,400 209,068 Net foreign exchange difference 190 190 Net cash as at 31 December 2017 80,513 28,400 42,600 9,513 16.
Inventories As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Ore in stockpiles 22,253 8,269 1 Mine operating supplies 117,946 143,610 Gold in process 5,103 10,534 Finished products: Gold dor bullion 7,078 8,692 Gold, copper and silver concentrate 139,500 13,208 Total current portion of inventory 291,880 184,313 2 Non-current ore in stockpiles 133,550 98,936 Total 425,430 283,249 1 Mine operating supplies for 2017 includes the impairment of US$30.0 million relating to Bulyanhulu, Refer to Note 6 for further details.
2 G old, copper and silver concentrate on hand relate to finished products at Bulyanhulu US$88.5 million and Buzwagi US$51.0 million due to the inability to export concentrate since March 2017.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the cost of sales amounts to US$132.2 million relating to consumables, fuel and lubricants and credits of US$140.9 million relating to changes in gold inventory 2016: US$157.4 million and credit of US$17.9 million respectively.
136 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.
Trade and other receivables and other current assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Trade and other receivables: Amounts due from dor and concentrate sales 18 7,841 Amounts due from realised gains on gold put options 1,356 Amounts due from royalty income 1,453 Other receivables 16,156 12,023 Due from related parties 40 40 Less: Provision for doubtful debt on other receivables 938 1,074 Total 18,085 18,830 1 Other receivables relates to employee and supplier backcharge-related receivables and refundable deposits.
Trade receivables other than concentrate receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90-day terms.
Concentrate receivables are generally on 60-120-day terms depending on the terms per contract.
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
The carrying value of trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any provisions for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Other current assets: 2 Current portion of indirect tax receivables 38,285 128,423 3 Other receivables and advance payments 31,870 21,095 Total 70,155 149,518 2 T he current portion of indirect tax receivables includes an amount of US$31.4 million relating to North Mara as it is expected that the current portion will be recovered through offsets against corporate income tax, as agreed under the MOS entered into in 2012, within the next year.
3 O ther receivables and advance payments mainly relate to prepayments for insurance US$9.4 million 2016: US$6.5 million, corporate tax deposit paid at North Mara US$9.5 million and current amounts receivable from the NSSF of US$4.8 million 2016: US$5.0 million.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Cash at bank and on hand 65,246 123,041 Money market funds 15,267 194,750 Total 80,513 317,791 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 137 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19.
Property, plant and equipment Mineral properties and mine For the year ended 31 December 2017 Plant and development Assets under in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total At 1 January 2017, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment 553,993 842,019 47,164 1,443,176 Additions 147,739 147,739 Non-cash reclamation asset adjustments 9,087 9,087 Foreign currency translation adjustments 1,212 1,212 Disposals write-downs 123 123 2 Impairment 274,608 411,767 686,375 Depreciation 71,984 53,984 125,968 Transfers between categories 46,165 109,791 155,956 At 31 December 2017 245,568 486,059 38,947 770,574 At 1 January 2017 Cost 1,914,522 1,777,277 47,164 3,738,963 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,360,529 935,258 2,295,787 Net carrying amount 553,993 842,019 47,164 1,443,176 At 31 December 2017 Cost 1,943,643 1,887,068 38,947 3,869,658 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,698,075 1,401,009 3,099,084 Net carrying amount 245,568 486,059 38,947 770,574 Mineral properties and mine For the year ended 31 December 2016 Plant and development Assets under in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total At 1 January 2016, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment 572,877 761,592 56,244 1,390,713 Additions 191,139 191,139 Non-cash reclamation asset adjustments 21,955 21,955 Foreign currency translation adjustments 2,203 2,203 Disposals write-downs 6,533 6,533 Depreciation 95,864 60,437 156,301 Transfers between categories 59,355 140,864 200,219 At 31 December 2016 553,993 842,019 47,164 1,443,176 At 1 January 2016 Cost 1,845,234 1,636,413 56,244 3,537,891 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,272,357 874,821 2,147,178 Net carrying amount 572,877 761,592 56,244 1,390,713 At 31 December 2016 Cost 1,914,522 1,777,277 47,164 3,738,963 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,360,529 935,258 2,295,787 Net carrying amount 553,993 842,019 47,164 1,443,176 1 A ssets under construction represents a sustaining capital expenditures incurred constructing property, plant and equipment related to operating mines and advance deposits made towards the purchase of property, plant and equipment: and b expansionary expenditure allocated to a project on a business combination or asset acquisition, and the subsequent costs incurred to develop the mine.
Once these assets are ready for their intended use, the balance is transferred to plant and equipment, and or mineral properties and mine development costs.
2 The impairment in 2017 relates to property, plant and equipment at Bulyanhulu.
Refer to note 6 for further details.
138 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Leases Property, plant and equipment includes assets relating to the design and construction costs of power transmission lines and related infrastructure.
At completion, ownership was transferred to TANESCO in exchange for amortised repayment in the form of reduced electricity supply charges.
No future lease payment obligations are payable under these finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment also includes five drill rigs purchased under short-term finance leases.
The following amounts were included in property, plant and equipment where the Group was a lessee under a finance lease: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Cost capitalised finance leases 51,618 51,617 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 42,948 40,925 Net carrying amount 8,670 10,692 20.
Goodwill and intangible assets Acquired exploration and For the year ended 31 December 2017 evaluation 1 in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 127,898 88,292 216,190 2 Impairment 121,546 12,261 133,807 At 31 December 2017 6,352 76,031 82,383 At 31 December 2017 Cost 401,250 112,842 514,092 Accumulated impairment 394,898 36,811 431,709 Net carrying amount 6,352 76,031 82,383 Acquired exploration and For the year ended 31 December 2016 evaluation 1 in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 127,898 83,292 211,190 3 Additions 5,000 5,000 At 31 December 2016 127,898 88,292 216,190 At 31 December 2016 Cost 401,250 112,842 514,092 Accumulated impairment 273,352 24,550 297,902 Net carrying amount 127,898 88,292 216,190 1 Exploration and evaluation assets classified as intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
2 I mpairments recognised in 2017 relate to goodwill in Bulyanhulu US$121.5 million and the Nyanzaga exploration property located in Tanzania US$12.3 million.
Refer to Note 6 for further detail.
3 Additions for 2016 relate to the acquisition of the remaining interests in the West Kenya Project.
Goodwill and accumulated impairment losses by operating segments: For the year ended 31 December 2017 in thousands of United States dollars North Mara Bulyanhulu Other Total 121,546 6,352 127,898 At 1 January 2017 At 31 December 2017 6,352 6,352 Cost 237,524 121,546 42,180 401,250 Accumulated impairments 237,524 121,546 35,828 394,898 For the year ended 31 December 2016 in thousands of United States dollars North Mara Bulyanhulu Other Total 121,546 6,352 127,898 At 1 January 2016 At 31 December 2016 121,546 6,352 127,898 Cost 237,524 121,546 42,180 401,250 Accumulated impairments 237,524 35,828 273,352 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 139 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Tax losses 599,569 648,984 Total 599,569 648,984 The above tax losses, which translate into deferred tax assets of approximately US$165 million 2016: US$184 million, have not been recognised in respect of these items due to uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, or there being uncertainty regarding future taxable income against which these assets can be utilised.
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Balance sheet classification Assets Liabilities Net in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Property, plant and equipment 196,921 390,050 196,921 390,050 Provisions 8,293 4,456 8,293 4,456 Interest deferrals 59 479 542 483 479 Tusker acquisition 6,235 6,354 6,235 6,354 Tax loss carry-forwards 265,326 251,510 265,326 251,510 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 273,678 256,445 203,698 396,404 69,980 139,959 Legal entities Assets Liabilities Net in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 North Mara Gold Mine Ltd 91,321 77,529 91,321 77,529 Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd 160,600 64,539 160,600 64,539 Pangea Minerals Ltd 8,258 7,504 8,258 7,504 Other 655 927 8,212 6,322 7,557 5,395 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 169,513 8,431 99,533 148,390 69,980 139,959 Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued by the TRA, have been measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach resulting in the recognition of substantially all the related deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Alternative acceptable measurement policies e. g. on a weighted average expected outcome basis could result in a change to deferred tax assets and liabilities being recognised, and the deferred tax charge in the income statement.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences, and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to US$412 million 2016: US$411 million.
Other assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 1 Amounts due from Government 11,629 11,748 Operating lease prepayments TANESCO powerlines 374 809 2 Prepayments Acquisition of rights over leasehold land 35,948 42,250 3 Non-current portion of indirect tax receivable 132,405 7,945 Village housing 151 254 Deferred finance charges 201 291 Total 180,708 63,297 1 I ncluded in this amount are amounts receivable from the NSSF of US$6.7 million 2016: US$5.4 million as well as amounts due from TANESCO of US$1.0 million 2016: US$3.1 million.
2 Prepayments made to the landowners in respect of acquisition of the rights over the use of leasehold land.
3 T he non-current portion of indirect tax receivables was subject to discounting to its current value using a discount rate of 6.5% 2016: 5%.
This resulted in a discounting debit of US$13.3 million 2016: US$9.7 million credit to the income statement refer to Note 8.
140 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
No share movements have taken place in the current year.
Share-based compensation a Share options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees.
The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the Compensation Committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation of such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date ofgrant.
All options outstanding at the end of the year ending 31 December 2017 expire in November 2018.
137,701 of the options granted were exercisable at 31 December 2017.
The vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of seven years from the date of grant.
A new class of zero cost options were granted to the Executive Leadership in April 2017 however these are expected to be cash settled and have therefore been included as part of the Employee share-based liability.
Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are reflected in pence as follows: 2017 2016 Average Average exercise price exercise price in pence in pence For the year ended 31 December per share Options per share Options At 1 January 295 1,328,989 332 1,602,113 Forfeited 513 273,124 Expired 539 349,980 Exercised 160 841,308 At 31 December 497 137,701 295 1,328,989 No equity-settled share options were granted during the year.
b LTIP Restricted Share Units Included in other non-current liabilities are RSUs with a fair value of US$2.4 million as at 31 December 2017 2016: US$2.8 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of United States dollars RSUs US$000 At 1 January 2016 2,055,279 2,231 Settled for cash 849,958 4,149 Forfeited 444,430 556 Granted 720,291 609 Credits for dividends 20,777 35 Change in value 4,660 At 31 December 2016 1,501,959 2,830 Settled for cash 584,898 847 Forfeited 118,058 404 Granted 486,981 215 Credits for dividends 24,309 20 Change in value 627 At 31 December 2017 1,310,293 2,441 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 141 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24.
Share-based compensation continued c LTIP Performance Restricted Share Units PRSUs Included in other non-current liabilities are PRSUs with a fair value of US$0.6 million as at 31 December 2017 2016: US$8.4 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of United States dollars PRSUs US$000 At 1 January 2016 4,012,239 11,811 Settled for cash 2,455,499 28,291 Forfeited 525,007 234 Granted 3,053,622 4,725 Credits for dividends 51,111 200 Change in value 20,217 At 31 December 2016 4,136,466 8,428 Settled for cash 218,728 Forfeited 2,214,007 Granted 923,481 Credits for dividends 39,408 Change in value 7,801 At 31 December 2017 2,666,620 627 d LTIP Deferred Share Units Included in other non-current liabilities are DSUs with a fair value of US$0.2 million as at 31 December 2017 2016: US$1.1 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of United States dollars DSUs US$000 326,359 717 At 1 January 2016 Settled for cash 80,369 460 Credits for dividends 2,218 6 Change in value 854 At 31 December 2016 248,208 1,117 Settled for cash 167,964 810 Credits for dividends 3,723 10 Change in value 91 At 31 December 2017 83,967 226 e LTIP Zero Cost Options A new class of zero cost options was granted to the Executive Leadership in April 2017.
No zero cost options included in other non-current liabilities as at 31 December 2017 due to the fair value being nil.
Number Fair value in thousands of United States dollars of options US$000 At 31 December 2016 Granted 1,733,585 Forfeited 1,117,983 At 31 December 2017 615,602 25.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Trade payables 62,610 84,294 Income tax payable 11,442 13,632 Accrued expenses 40,958 54,344 Payroll-related payables 12,185 20,182 Royalty payable 988 1,114 1 Provision for uncertain tax positions 206,912 34,912 Trade payables to related parties 15,355 14,065 Total 350,450 222,543 1 I ncluded in the 2017 amount are provisions raised for uncertain tax positions of US$68.5 million relating to North Mara and US$103.5 million relating to Bulyanhulu, based on an estimate of the impact of a comprehensive settlement reflecting the key terms of the framework announcements made by Barrick and the GoT in October 2017.
Included in the amount for 2016 are accruals raised for uncertain tax positions in order to address the direct impact of the ruling on historic tax assessments and the potential impact this may have on the applicability of certain deductions for prior years at North Mara and Tulawaka US$34.8 million.
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
142 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Terms and conditions of the opposite payables liabilities: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-day of statement terms Accruals and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of 3060 days.
Borrowings During 2013, a US$142 million facility was put in place to fund the bulk of the costs of the construction of one of Acacias key growth projects, the Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion project Project.
The Facility is collateralised by the Project, has a term of seven years with a spread over LIBOR of 250 basis points.
In common with borrowing agreements of this nature the facility includes various covenants as well as material adverse effect clauses.
The interest rate has been fixed at 3.6% through the use of an interest rate swap.
The seven year Facility is repayable in equal bi-annual instalments over the term of the Facility, after a two year repayment holiday period.
The full facility of US$142 million was drawn at the end of 2013.
The first principal payment of US$14.2 million was paid in H2 2015 and during 2017 two payments of US$14.2 million were paid.
As at 31 December 2017 the balance owing was US$71.0 million 2016: US$99.4 million.
Interest accrued to the value of US$0.5 million 2016: US$0.6 million was included in accounts payable at year-end.
Interest incurred on the borrowings as well as hedging losses on the interest rate swap for the year ended 31 December 2017 was US$2.9 million 2016: US$4.0 million.
This expenditure arises at different times over the LOM for the different mine sites and is expected to be utilised in terms of cash outflows between years 2018 and 2041 and beyond, varying from mine site to mine site.
The change in estimate in the current year relates mainly to deferrals in estimated cash flows resulting in a lower net present value combined with slight changes in US risk free rates driving a change in discount rate.
2 O ther provisions relate to provisions for legal and tax-related liabilities where the outcome is not yet certain but it is expected that it will lead to a probable outflow of economic benefits in future US$3.9 million 2016: US$0.7 million as well as severance provisions mainly at Bulyanhulu as part of the reduced operations and redundancies at Buzwagi due to mining activities coming to an end US$4.4 million.
Rehabilitation obligations arise from the acquisition, development, construction and normal operation of mining property, plant and equipment, due to Government controls and regulations that protect the environment on the closure and reclamation of mining properties.
The major parts of the carrying amount of the obligation relate to tailings and waste rock dump closure rehabilitation: surface contouring: demolition of buildings mine facilities: on-going water treatment: and on-going care and maintenance of closed mines.
The fair values of rehabilitation provisions are measured by discounting the expected cash flows using a discount factor that reflects the credit-adjusted risk-free rate of interest.
Acacia prepares estimates of the timing and amount of expected cash flows when an obligation is incurred and updates expected cash flows to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.
The principal factors that can cause expected cash flows to change are: the construction of new processing facilities: changes in the quantities of material in reserves and a corresponding change in the life of mine plan: changing ore characteristics that impact required environmental protection measures and related costs: changes in water quality that impact the extent of water treatment required: and changes in laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.
Each year Acacia assesses cost estimates and other assumptions used in the valuation of the rehabilitation provision at each mineral property to reflect events, changes in circumstances and new information available.
Changes in these cost estimates and assumptions are recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the corresponding asset.
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted to reflect the passage of time accretion calculated by applying the discount factor implicit in the initial fair-value measurement to the beginning-of-period carrying amount of the provision.
Settlement gains losses will be recorded in other income expense.
Other environmental remediation costs that are not rehabilitation provisions are expensed as incurred.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 143 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
Other liabilities As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Employee benefit share-based liabilities 3,294 12,375 Other 3,459 3,472 Total 6,753 15,847 Current portion 1,715 148 Non-current portion 5,038 15,699 29.
Financial assets and liabilities a Financial assets Carrying value as at 31 December Fair value as at 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 80,513 317,791 80,513 317,791 Trade and other receivables 18,085 18,830 18,085 18,830 Derivative financial instruments 3,526 2,164 3,526 2,164 1 Total other assets excluding prepayments 204,576 160,942 204,576 160,942 Total financial assets 306,700 499,727 306,700 499,727 Less: Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 80,513 317,791 80,513 317,791 Trade and other receivables 18,085 18,830 18,085 18,830 Derivative financial instruments 2,619 1,343 2,619 1,343 Other current assets excluding prepayments 60,760 142,981 60,760 142,981 Total other non-current financial assets 144,723 18,782 144,723 18,782 1 Prepayments are excluded from other assets in the analysis as they are not a financial instrument.
The fair value of financial assets, excluding other assets, equals their carrying amount as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Included in other assets are indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority, which were subject to discounting: refer to note 22.
As at 31 December 2017 Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for in thousands of United States dollars receivables profit and loss hedging Total Assets as per balance sheet: Cash and cash equivalents 80,513 80,513 Trade and other receivables 18,085 18,085 Derivative financial instruments 2,328 1,198 3,526 Other assets excluding prepayments 204,576 204,576 Total financial assets 303,174 2,328 1,198 306,700 As at 31 December 2016 Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for in thousands of United States dollars receivables profit and loss hedging Total Assets as per balance sheet: Cash and cash equivalents 317,791 317,791 Trade and other receivables 18,830 18,830 Derivative financial instruments 1,876 288 2,164 Other assets excluding prepayments 160,942 160,942 Total financial assets 497,563 1,876 288 499,727 144 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b Financial liabilities Carrying value as at 31 December Fair value as at 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 2017 2016 Derivative financial instruments 481 614 481 614 Trade and other payables 350,450 222,543 350,450 222,543 Other liabilities 6,753 15,847 6,753 15,847 Borrowings 71,000 99,400 71,000 99,400 Total 428,684 338,404 428,684 338,404 Less: Current financial assets Derivative financial instruments 481 584 481 584 Trade and other payables 350,450 222,543 350,450 222,543 Other current liabilities 1,715 148 1,715 148 Borrowings 28,400 28,400 28,400 28,400 Total non-current portion of financial liabilities 47,638 86,729 47,638 86,729 Other liabilities relate to cash-settled share-based plans and their valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
Also included in other liabilities are the finance lease liabilities and their valuation is based on observable market data.
Derivative financial instruments are valued based upon inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2017 Liabilities at fair Derivatives Other financial value through used for liabilities at in thousands of United States dollars profit and loss hedging amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet: Derivative financial instruments 481 481 Trade and other payables 350,450 350,450 Other liabilities 6,753 6,753 Borrowings 71,000 71,000 Total financial liabilities 481 428,203 428,684 As at 31 December 2016 Liabilities at fair Derivatives Other financial value through used for liabilities at in thousands of United States dollars profit and loss hedging amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet: Derivative financial instruments 541 73 614 Trade and other payables 222,543 222,543 Other liabilities 15,847 15,847 Borrowings 99,400 99,400 Total financial liabilities 541 73 337,790 338,404 In common with borrowing agreements of this nature the facility includes various covenants as well as material adverse effect clauses.
Revolving credit facility The Group has a revolving credit facility in place for a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million, which was negotiated on 24 November 2010 with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank.
The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the Group and to fund potential acquisitions.
All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial and customary terms for such finance arrangements and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
During 2016, the term of the facility was successfully extended to 2019 at a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million.
At 31 December 2017, none of the funds were drawn under the facility.
The shares of all significant subsidiaries have been pledged as security for the loan.
Costs associated with the revolving credit facility have been included in finance expenses.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 145 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Derivative financial instruments The tables below analyse financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The Group has derivative financial instruments in the form of economic and cash flow hedging contracts which are all defined as level two instruments as they are valued using inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liabilities.
The following tables present the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
For the year ended 31 December 2017 Assets Liabilities in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Interest contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 531 667 481 Commodity contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 2,088 240 Total 2,619 907 481 For the year ended 31 December 2016 Assets Liabilities in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Interest contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 33 255 73 Commodity contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 1,310 566 511 30 Total 1,343 821 584 30 31.
Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: a market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks: b credit risk: and c liquidity risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Board of Directors has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
a Market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as commodity prices, foreign exchange rates or interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
Gold price The market price of gold is one of the most significant factors in determining the profitability of the Groups operations.
The price of gold is subject to volatile price movements over short periods of time, especially in the current market environment, and is affected by numerous industry and macro-economic factors that are beyond the Groups control.
In 2017 the price ranged from US$1,159 to US$1,346 per ounce, with an average market price of US$1,257 per ounce 2016: US$1,251 per ounce.
The Groups policy is to sell gold at prevailing market prices.
During 2017, the Group hedged 75% of North Mara and Buzwagi production for September December 2017 and 75% for January February 2018 to protect the downside price risk and mitigate cash outflows.
This accounted for approximately 18% of the Groups overall production in 2017.
The Group added 210,000 ounces of gold put contracts with an average strike price of US$1,300 per ounce for 2017 and 2018.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had 70,000 ounces of gold put contracts outstanding that will mature in 2018 at a strike price of US$1,300 per ounce.
These transactions are economic hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
146 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.
Financial risk management continued The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market price on gold.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups profit after tax for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by 10% with all other variables held constant.
The impact of a similar change in copper and silver is not material to the Groups loss after tax.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Gain associated with 10% increase from year-end price 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Gold 48,453 68,172 Co-product prices In 2017, the copper price ranged from US$2.48 to US$3.27 per pound, with an average market price of US$2.80 per pound 2016: US$2.21 per pound and closing at US$3.25 per pound.
In 2017, the silver price ranged from US$15 to US$19 per ounce, with an average market price of US$17 per ounce 2016: US$17 per ounce.
The Group did not add any further copper contracts for calendar year 2017 and did not have any contracts outstanding as at 31 December 2017.
During the year, the Group had 12.9 million pounds collar contracts with an average floor price of US$2.30 per pound and ceiling of US$2.78 per pound respectively that matured 2016: nil.
Oil price Diesel fuel is refined from crude oil and is therefore subject to the same price volatility affecting crude oil prices.
The Group enters into Brent oil option contracts to manage the impact of oil price fluctuations.
In 2017, oil prices traded between US$45 and US$67 per barrel with an average market price of US$55 2016: US$45 per barrel.
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market prices of crude oil.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by US$10 per barrel with all other variables held constant.
The effect on profit after tax before hedging is calculated based on actual consumption for the year and does not address the indirect impact of a change in the oil price on other costs.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Gain loss associated with US$10 decrease increase from year-end price 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Oil 2,571 3,313 The Group did not add any further Brent oil collar contracts for calendar year 2017.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had a total 206,000 barrels of Brent crude oil net purchase options outstanding.
These contracts mature in 2018 and 2019 consisting of sold put options with average strike prices of US$36 per barrel and US$40 per barrel respectively and bought call options with average strike prices of US$71 per barrel and US$66 per barrel respectively.
During the year, the Group added 79,000 barrels of Brent oil collar contracts for calendar years 2018 and 2019.
These contracts are treated as accounting hedges in accordance with IAS 39.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of forecasted consumption purchased in a future month.
Hedge effectiveness is assessed using linear regression utilising the concept of the hypothetical derivative method.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the commodity contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure impacts earnings.
These hedges did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment as a result of not meeting the hedge effectiveness criteria.
Changes in the fair value of these options were therefore recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
Risks relating to the use of derivatives By using derivatives, in addition to credit risk, we are affected by market risk.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of a derivative might be adversely affected by a change in commodity prices, interest rates, or currency exchange rates, and that this in turn affects our financial condition.
We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that may be undertaken.
Foreign currency risk The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian shillings shillings, South African rands rands, UK pounds sterling pounds and Australian dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
Therefore, transactions in currencies other than the US dollar give rise to foreign currency translation risk.
The Groups primary exposure to this risk arises from direct mine operating costs and corporate administration costs that are transacted in shillings and rands, respectively.
Consequently, fluctuations in the US dollar shilling rand exchange rates increase the volatility of cost of sales, corporate administration costs and overall net earnings, which are reported in US dollars.
The vast majority of all direct mining costs and corporate administration costs are denominated and settled in US dollars.
Consequently, the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations on the Groups reported direct mining and corporate administration costs is not significant.
The exchange rates at the end of each financial year are detailed in note 2g.
Historically, the relationship between the gold price and the value of the shilling and rand provide a natural hedge against fluctuations in the exchange rate of these currencies against the US dollar.
Generally, a strengthening of the shilling rand, which would cause an increase in reported US dollar operating costs, corresponds with an increase in the US dollar gold price, which results in an increase in reported US dollar revenues.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 147 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
Financial risk management continued The Group does have significant financial assets denominated in a currency other than US dollars.
These financial assets are as follow: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Indirect tax receivables denominated in Tanzanian shillings 170,690 136,368 Total 170,690 136,368 The following sensitivity analyses give the estimated effect of a reasonably possible change in the full year closing US dollar exchange rate on the value of the financial assets.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 US dollar strengthens by 10% to the Tanzanian shilling Increase in total indirect tax receivables 18,966 15,152 US dollar weakens by 10% to the Tanzanian shilling Decrease in total indirect tax receivables 15,517 12,397 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
At present, available funds are held with financial institutions at variable rates and primarily denominated in US dollars: interest income is not materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
During 2013, the Group entered into an Export Credit Insurance Company ECIC backed seven-year term loan facility of US$142 million to fund the construction of the CIL Process plant at Bulyanhulu.
Interest is payable on the loan at LIBOR plus 250 basis points.
The revolving credit facilitys spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
Group debt levels are impacted by the amount of operating cash flow generated by its operating mines, as well as capital expenditure requirements related to existing operations and development projects.
In 2013, the Group entered into interest rate swap contracts to hedge the interest on the ECIC backed loan for the Bulyanhulu CIL Process plant.
The terms of the interest rate swap contracts fix this at 3.59% versus the floating rate of LIBOR plus 2.50%.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of rand spent during the month.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the currency contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure occurs.
These gains or losses have been included as part of interest expense in the income statement.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
For cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet, net of any overdraft positions.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks, as well as trade and other receivables.
The Groups financial assets are held with counterparties who the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
Location of credit risk is determined by physical location of the bank branch, customer or counterparty.
The maximum allowable term to maturity for any individual security is three months.
Investment counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa1 or better by Moodys Investor Services or BBB by Standard and Poors.
No more than 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United States of America or the United Kingdom, or in any one industry group.
Investments are primarily held in United States dollars.
Cash and cash equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements.
As at 31 December 2017 the Group has money market and short-term investments of US$14.7 million 2016: US$194.7 million.
All of the funds have at least a BBB rating from Standard and Poors.
The Group also has US$65.7 million 2016: US$122.9 million of cash on hand with banks with credit ratings ranging from A-1 to A-2.
With respect to other receivables, the most significant debtor is the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA.
Following the abolishment of Government Notices regarding VAT relief and fuel duty exemption for mining companies in 2009, Acacia signed a Memorandum of Settlement during 2011 with the TRA to address the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies and VAT that allows Acacia to offset income tax payable against outstanding VAT and fuel levy refunds as it becomes payable.
Also, the Minister of Finance reinstated VAT relief and the fuel exemption followed by an agreement to allow for an escrow facility in respect of fuel and road levies.
Again through the Finance Act, 2012 issued on 19 October 2012, VAT relief was abolished.
Throughout the past three years, Acacia has been actively involved in discussions with the Tanzanian Government and the TRA to resolve the issue.
The amendments conflict with certain provisions contained in the Groups existing Mineral Development Agreements MDAs which guarantee the fiscal stability of its operations.
As part of a short-term solution, the Government during the third quarter of 2013, agreed to an escrow arrangement on VAT in relation to imported goods and services, whereby funds are restricted to the repayment of VAT refunds.
As at 31 December 2017, the discounted amounts due to the Group were approximately US$170.7 million 2016: US$136.4 million.
We received no direct refunds during 2017 2016: US$43 million.
Provisional and final corporate tax payments offset against indirect taxes receivable amounted to US$37.9 million 2016: US$20 million during the year under review.
148 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of a counterpartys failure to honour its obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with trade customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each of the counterparties.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties who the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
During the year, receivables to the value of approximately US$27 million 2016: US$135 million were advanced by a financial institution under two factoring agreements for two concentrate counterparties.
Three agreements reduce the risk of default of receivables.
Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets described in note 29.
The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
The Group does not grade the credit quality of receivables.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of loss from not having access to sufficient funds to meet both expected and unexpected cash demands.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by ensuring that its operating and strategic liquidity levels are well above minimum internal requirements.
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash balances, and the availability of funding from an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
At the end of both 2017 and 2016 the Group was in a positive net cash position, as disclosed in note 18.
Details of the undrawn revolving credit facility are given in note 29.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group receives cash proceeds from its operations and is required to fund working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
The cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested to maximise returns while ensuring that capital is safeguarded to the maximum extent possible by investing only with financial institutions with a strong credit rating.
Insignificant uncommitted overdraft facilities are maintained with several banking counterparties to meet the Groups normal funding requirements.
The Groups primary source of liquidity is operating cash flow, and over the past three years the Group has generated an average of about US$150 million per year.
The principal risk factor affecting operating cash flow is market gold prices.
The principal uses of liquidity are sustaining capital expenditures at existing operating mines, construction activities at development projects, and interest payments.
Sustaining capital expenditures, including capitalised development costs, have averaged about US$172 million per year over the past two years.
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial assets into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
For the year ended 31 December 2017 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 80,513 80,513 Accounts receivable 18,085 18,085 Derivative financial instruments 2,619 907 3,526 1 Other assets excluding prepayments 60,760 157,092 217,852 Total 161,977 157,999 319,976 For the year ended 31 December 2016 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 317,791 317,791 Accounts receivable 18,830 18,830 Derivative financial instruments 1,343 821 2,164 1 Other assets excluding prepayments 142,981 17,961 160,942 Total 480,945 18,782 499,727 1 Prepayments are excluded from other assets in the analysis as they are not a financial instrument.
Included in the balance for years 1 to 3 is the discounting impact of indirect taxes receivable amountingamounting to US$13.3 million.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 149 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
Financial risk management continued The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
For the year ended 31 December 2017 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative financial instruments 481 481 Other liabilities 1,715 1,566 3,472 6,753 1 Trade and other payables 132,096 132,096 Borrowings 28,400 42,600 71,000 Total 162,692 44,166 3,472 210,330 For the year ended 31 December 2016 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative financial instruments 584 30 614 Other liabilities 148 12,227 3,472 15,847 1 Trade and other payables 172,215 172,215 Borrowings 28,400 71,000 99,400 Total 201,347 83,257 3,472 288,076 1 Trade and other payables exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable including provisions made for uncertain tax positions.
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to support its business and provide financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value.
In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions, which are approved by the Executive Leadership Team before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
Operating lease arrangements For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year 8,494 7,989 Total 8,494 7,989 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Within one year 4,520 7,188 In the second to fifth years inclusive 3,488 1,072 After five years Total 8,008 8,260 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of office space by regional business units of the Group and rental of Gensets at Buzwagi.
150 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33.
Commitments and contingencies The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group has the following commitments and or contingencies: a Legal contingencies As at 31 December 2017, the Group was a defendant in a number of lawsuits.
The plaintiffs are claiming damages and interest thereon in respect of claims due to one or more of the following: unlawful eviction, termination of services and or non-payment for services, defamation, negligence by act or omission in failing to provide a safe working environment, unpaid overtime, public holiday compensation and various other commercial project disputes.
The Groups Legal Counsel is defending the Groups current position.
At present, Acacia considers these cases to be without merit and therefore the likelihood of any material unfavourable outcome is remote, as a result no provision is required.
b Tax-related contingencies The TRA has issued a number of tax assessments to the Group related to past taxation years from 2002-onwards.
The Group believes that the majority of these assessments are incorrect and has filed objections and appeals accordingly in an attempt to resolve these matters by means of discussions with the TRA or through the Tanzanian appeals process.
Overall, it is the current assessment that the relevant assessments and claims by the TRA are without merit.
The claims include a TRA assessment to the value of US$41.3 million for withholding tax on certain historic offshore dividend payments paid by Acacia Mining plc to its shareholders in 2010 to 2013.
Acacia is appealing this assessment on the substantive grounds that, as an English incorporated company, it is not resident in Tanzania for taxation purposes.
The appeal is currently pending at the Court of Appeal.
In addition, the Company has raised certain tax provisions amounting to US$300 million in aggregate, based on the potential impact of a comprehensive settlement of all outstanding tax disputes, including, according to Barrick, historic tax claims, reflecting the key terms of the framework announcements by Barrick and the GoT in October 2017.
Please refer to Note 10 for further information.
c Purchase commitments At 31 December 2017, the Group had purchase obligations for supplies and consumables of approximately US$32.5 million 2016: US$47.0 million.
d Capital commitments In addition to entering into various operational commitments in the normal course of business, the Group entered into contracts for capital expenditure of approximately US$10.2 million in 2017 2016: US$13.0 million.
Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by BGC, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
Transactions with related parties are as follows: a Transactions For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Provision of goods and services 97 55 Purchase of goods and services 1,373 532 Dividend payments 21,972 12,545 Total 23,248 13,022 Provision and purchase of goods and services to from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Provision of services relates to cost incurred by the Group and recharged to related parties.
Purchase of goods and services relates to cost incurred by related parties and recharged to the Group.
Services purchased relate mainly to insurance, software licences and professional services including legal, audit and consulting charges.
Goods purchased relate mainly to consumables and capital equipment.
b Balances due from related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Placer Dome Technical Services 37 37 Other 3 3 Total 40 40 The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no interest.
There are no provisions held against receivables from BGC.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 151 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
Related party balances and transactions continued c Balances due to related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Due to holding company: Barrick Gold Corporation 14,558 13,197 Due to fellow subsidiaries: BIBC 5 3 Barrick Gold North America 777 771 Minera Barrick Misquichilca S. A.
86 Other 15 8 Total 15,355 14,065 The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions noted above.
The payables are unsecured and bear no interest.
d Remuneration of key management personnel Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team who receive remuneration.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2017 2016 Short-term employee benefits 6,756 6,077 Post-employment benefits 477 540 Share-based payments 1,057 32,435 1 Total 8,290 39,052 1 Also refer to the Remuneration Report on page 85 for total remuneration received by each Director for the year ending 31 December 2017.
Prospecting licences The Group holds exploration mineral rights in the United Republic of Tanzania.
These rights are held in the form of prospecting licences issued by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and are held either directly by the Group or indirectly pursuant to third-party agreements.
The licences held by the Group as at 31 December 2017 are summarised in the following table.
The total commitment to exploration expenditure on these licences for 2018 is US$0.6 million.
Licences directly held by Acacia Active prospecting licences Active prospecting licences managed by Acacia not managed by Acacia Number of Area in square Number of Area in square in thousands of United States dollars licences kilometres licences kilometres ABG Exploration Limited 26 130 2 3 North Mara Gold Mine Limited 13 85 Nyanzaga Mining Company Limited 23 208 Pangea Mineral Limited 8 58 4 50 Prime Gold Exploration Limited 34 Sub-Sahara Resources TZ Limited Vulcan Resources Tanzania Limited 3 21 Total 47 307 32 282 Licences indirectly held by Acacia Number of Area in square in thousands of United States dollars licences kilometres Managed by Acacia Not managed by Acacia 5 24 36.
Post-balance sheet events a Sale of non-core mineral royalty As previously announced, Acacia has agreed to divest a non-core royalty over the Hound Mine in Burkina Faso for total consideration of US$45 million.
The 2% net smelter royalty has been owned by Acacia and its predecessor companies since 2010.
Following a competitive process the royalty has been purchased by Sandstorm Gold Ltd, a TSXand NYSE-listed company.
The transaction has closed following all conditions being met and monies were received by Acacia in January 2018. b Entry into further gold price protection measures As previously announced, Acacia has bought additional put options covering 120,000 ounces of gold at a strike price of US$1,320 per ounce for a cost of US$2.0 million.
The options will expire in equal instalments of 30,000 ounces per month between March and June.
These options, in addition to those bought in September 2017 at a strike price of US$1,300 per ounce, provide a minimum price for the majority of the Groups expected production for the first half of 2018 above our budgeted gold price of US$1,200 per ounce, with full upside exposure should the gold price continue to trade above the respective strike prices.
152 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017
