170 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Shareholder and general information Announcement of trading results Corporate website American Depository Receipts The trading results for the Group for the first half The IMI plc website provides a wealth of useful IMI plc has an American Depositary Receipt ADR of 2018 will be announced on 31 July 2018.
The information for shareholders and should be your programme that trades on the Over-The-Counter trading results for the full year ending 31 December first port of call for general queries relating to the market in the USA, using the symbol IMIAY.
2018 will be announced in early 2019.
Interim Company and your shares.
As well as providing ADR enquiries should be directed to Citibank management statements will be issued in May share price data and financial history, the site Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, Providence, and November 2018. also provides background information about RI 02940- 3077, USA.
Toll-free number in the the Company.
You can also Shareholders are also encouraged to sign up to Dividend payments in 2018 email citibank@shareholders-online.
receive news alerts by email in the Investors section Final: 18 May 2018 of the website.
These include all of the financial Interim: September 2018 news releases from throughout the year that are Headquarters and registered office not sent to shareholders by post.
You can access Lakeside the corporate website at www.
Share prices and capital gains tax Solihull Parkway Birmingham Business Park The closing price of the Companys ordinary shares Annual General Meeting 2018 Birmingham on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December B37 7XZ 2017 was 1,333.00p 2016: 1,040.00p.
The market This years AGM will be held at the Hilton value of the Companys ordinary shares on 31 March Birmingham Metropole, National Exhibition Centre, Telephone: 44 121 717 3700 1982, as calculated for capital gains tax purposes, Birmingham B40 1PP on Thursday 3 May 2018 at IMI plc is registered in England No.
For further information, please refer to the Notice of Meeting which is on the corporate website.
The Companys SEAQ number is 514433.
Registrars Equiniti Individual Savings Account ISA Enquiries about shareholdings Aspect House IMIs ordinary shares can be held in an ISA.
For enquiries concerning shareholders personal Spencer Road For information about the ISA operated by our holdings, please contact the Companys Registrar: Lancing Registrar, Equiniti, please call the Equiniti ISA Equiniti contact details appear to the right.
Lines are open from BN99 6DA Please remember to tell Equiniti if you move house, 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding change bank details or if there is any other change Telephone: 0371 384 2916 or from overseas public holidays in England and Wales.
44 121 415 7047 Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday Share dealing service excluding public holidays in England and Wales Managing your shares on-line Managed by Equiniti, the Companys registrar, the Shareholders can manage their holdings on-line IMI plc Share dealing service provides shareholders by registering with Shareview, the internet based Stockbrokers with a simple way of buying and selling IMI ordinary platform provided by Equiniti.
Registration is a JPMorgan Cazenove shares.
Full written straightforward process and allows shareholders to: Bank of America Merrill Lynch details can be obtained from Equiniti contact help us to reduce print, paper and postage details appear to the right.
costs and the associated environmental Auditor impact of these: Share fraud Ernst & Young LLP cast your AGM vote electronically: Share fraud includes scams where investors are receive an email alert when important shareholder called out of the blue and offered shares that often documents are available on-line such as Annual Cautionary statement turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an Reports and Notices of General Meetings: inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come This Annual Report may contain forward-looking access details of your individual shareholding from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are statements that may or may not prove accurate.
For quickly and securely: mostly based abroad.
Further information on how example, statements regarding expected revenue set up a dividend mandate on-line: and to spot share fraud or report a scam can be found growth and operating margins, market trends and on our corporate website.
our product pipeline are forward-looking statements.
change your registered postal address or It is believed that the expectations reflected in these your dividend mandate details.
statements are reasonable but they may be affected To find out more information about the services by a number of risks and uncertainties that are offered by Shareview and to register, please visit inherent in any forward-looking statement which www.
could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
Any forward-looking statement is made in good faith and based on information available to IMI plc as of the date of the preparation of this Annual Report.
All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to IMI plc are qualified by this caution.
IMI plc does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forwardlooking statement to reflect any change in circumstances or in IMI plcs expectations.
Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Colour Ltd IMI plc Lakeside Solihull Parkway Birmingham Business Park Birmingham B37 7XZ United Kingdom www.
