GLOSSARY OF TERMS The following definitions and terms are used throughout this Annual Report.
In addition, specific terms and definitions relating to mineral reserves and resources can be found on page 98.
Acacia or the Company Acacia Mining plc, a company incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 and registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187 Acacia Group or the Group means the Acacia corporate group of companies, including Acacia Mining plc, the UK holding and parent company of the group: Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited, the owner and operator of the Bulyanhulu mine: North Mara Gold Mine Limited, the owner and operator of the North Mara mine: and Pangea Minerals Limited, the owner and operator of the Buzwagi mine.
Further information as to the status and role of each member of the Acacia corporate group is provided in Note 1 to the financial statements.
In addition to the term Acacia, in this Report we, us and our are also used to refer to the Company and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them.
These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities.
The companies in which Acacia Mining plc has a direct or indirect interest are separate entities.
AGM annual general meeting AISC has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 171 Articles the articles of association of the Company Assay a chemical test performed on a sample of ores or minerals to determine the amount of valuable metals contained Au gold Average head grade average ore grade fed into the mill, expressed in grams per metric tonne Average realised gold price per ounce sold has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 171 Barrick Barrick Gold Corporation, a company existing under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada Barrick Group Barrick and its subsidiary undertakings Board or Board of Directors the Board of Directors of Acacia Cash cost per ounce sold has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 171 Cash cost per tonne milled has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 171 CIL carbon in leach, a method of recovering gold and silver, in which a slurry of gold silver bearing ore, carbon and cyanide are mixed together.
The cyanide dissolves the gold, which is subsequently absorbed by the activated carbon whose base is usually ground coconut shells CIM the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum Code of Conduct Acacias Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales, as amended Concentrate a fine, powdery product of the milling process containing an economic percentage of gold, silver and copper Contained ounces represents total ounces in a mineral reserve before reduction to account for ounces not able to be recovered by the applicable metallurgical process Co-product a secondary metal or mineral product recovered in the milling process such as copper and silver CREST the computerised settlement system operated by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited to facilitate the transfer of title to shares in uncertificated form Crushing breaking of ore from the size delivered from the mine into smaller and more uniform fragments to be then fed to grinding mills or to a leach pad CSR corporate social responsibility Cu copper Development work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit.
In an underground mine this includes shaft sinking, crosscutting, drifting and raising.
In an open pit mine, development includes the removal of overburden Directors the Directors of Acacia for the reporting period, details of whom are set out on pages 64 to 65 of this Annual Report Disclosure Guidance the disclosure guidance and transparency rules made by the FCA under Part VI of FSMA and Transparency Rules Dollar or US$ or $ United States dollars 168 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Dor dor bullion is an impure alloy of gold and silver and is generally the final product of mining and processing: the dor bullion will be transported to be refined to high purity metal Drift a horizontal underground opening that follows along the length of a vein or rock formation as opposed to a crosscut which crosses the rock formation Drilling: core a drilling method that uses a rotating barrel and an annular-shaped, diamond-impregnated rock-cutting bit to produce cylindrical rock cores and lift such cores to the surface, where they may be collected, examined and assayed Drilling: in-fill any method of drilling intervals between existing holes, used to provide greater geological detail and to help establish reserve estimates Drilling: reverse circulation drilling method that uses a rotating cutting bit circulation within a double-walled drill pipe and produces rock chips rather than core.
Air or water is circulated down to the bit between the inner and outer wall of the drill pipe.
The chips are forced to the surface through the centre of the drill pipe and are collected, examined and assayed EBITDA has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 171 ELT or Executive Leadership Team the individuals listed on page 66 or Senior Management Executive Director the executive director of the Company, being as at year-end Peter Geleta Exploration prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond drilling and other work involved in searching for ore Financial Conduct Authority or FCA the Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom Flotation a milling process in which valuable mineral particles are induced to become attached to bubbles and float as others sink Free cash flow has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 171 FSMA the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended Grade the amount of metal in each tonne of ore, expressed as troy ounces per tonne or grams per tonne for precious metals and as a percentage for most other metals g t gram per metric tonne IAS International Accounting Standards IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union IPO Acacias initial public offering on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange ISO International Organization for Standardisation koz thousand ounces KPIs key performance indicators Kt thousand metric tonnes LIBOR The British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate for the relevant currency and period displayed on the appropriate page of the Reuters screen Listing Rules the rules relating to admission to the Official List made in accordance with section 73A 2 of FSMA London Stock Exchange or LSE London Stock Exchange plc Long-hole stoping a method of underground mining involving the drilling of holes up to 30 metres or longer into an ore bearing zone and then blasting a slice of rock which falls into an open space.
The broken rock is extracted and the resulting open chamber may or may not be filled with supporting material Majority shareholder Barrick MDA a mineral development agreement Mill a plant in which ore is treated and metals are recovered or prepared for smelting: also a revolving drum used for the grinding of ores in preparation for treatment Moz million ounces Mt million metric tonnes NGOs non-governmental organisations NI 43-101 Canadian National Instrument 43-101 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 169 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED Non-Executive Directors the non-executive directors of the Company, being as at year-end Kelvin Dushnisky, Andre Falzon, Michael Kenyon, Steve Lucas, Rachel English and Stephen Galbraith Official List the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority Open pit a mine where the minerals are mined entirely from the surface.
Also referred to as open-cut or open-cast mine Operating cash flow per share has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 171 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company Ore rock, generally containing metallic or non-metallic minerals, which can be mined and processed at a profit Ore body a sufficiently large amount of ore that can be mined economically Overburden is the material that lies above the area of economic interest, such as soil and ancillary material, that is removed during surface mining Oxide ore mineralised rock in which some of the original minerals have been oxidised.
Oxidation tends to make the ore more amenable to cyanide solutions so that minute particles of gold will be readily dissolved oz troy ounce 31.1035g Reclamation the process by which lands disturbed as a result of mining activity are modified to support beneficial land use.
Reclamation activity may include the removal of buildings, equipment, machinery and other physical remnants of mining, closure of tailings storage facilities, leach pads and other mine features, and contouring, covering and re-vegetation of waste rock and other disturbed areas Recovery rate a term used in process metallurgy to indicate the proportion of valuable material physically recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated as a percentage of the material recovered compared to the total material originally present Refining the final stage of metal production in which impurities are removed from the molten metal Relationship Agreement the relationship agreement between Barrick and Acacia ROM run-of-mine, a term used loosely to describe ore of average grade SC Sustainable Communities Services Agreement the services agreement between Barrick and Acacia Shaft a vertical or inclined excavation in rock for the purpose of providing access to an ore body.
Usually equipped with a hoist at the top, which lowers and raises a conveyance for handling workers and materials Shareholders holders of Ordinary Shares Spot or spot price the purchase price of a commodity at the current price, normally at a discount to the long-term contract price Stripping removal of overburden or waste rock overlying an ore body in preparation for mining by open pit methods Tailings the material that remains after all economically and technically recoverable precious metals have been removed from the ore during processing Tailings storage facility a natural or man-made confined area suitable for depositing the material that remains after the treatment of ore TANESCO Tanzanian Electric Supply Company Limited TRA Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRIFR Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate TZS or TSH Tanzanian shilling United Kingdom or UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council United States or US the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any state of the United States of America and the District of Columbia VAT value-added tax VBAs village benefit agreements VBIAs village benefit implementation agreements Voluntary Principles means the United Nations Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 170 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Non-IFRS Measures All-in sustaining cost AISC is a non-IFRS financial measure.
The Acacia has identified certain measures in this report that are not measure is in accordance with the World Gold Councils guidance measures defined under IFRS.
Non-IFRS financial measures disclosed issued in June 2013.
It is calculated by taking cash cost per ounce by management are provided as additional information to investors in sold and adding corporate administration costs, share-based payments, order to provide them with an alternative method for assessing Acacias reclamation and remediation costs for operating mines, corporate financial condition and operating results, and reflects more relevant social responsibility expenses, mine exploration and study costs, measures for the industry in which Acacia operates.
These measures realised gains and or losses on operating hedges, capitalised stripping are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, IFRS, and may be different and underground development costs and sustaining capital expenditure.
from or inconsistent with non-IFRS financial measures used by other This is then divided by the total ounces sold.
These measures are explained further below.
cash cost per ounce sold and AISC for the key business segments is presented below: Net average realised gold price per ounce sold is a non-IFRS financial US$ oz sold Year ended 31 December 2017 measure which excludes from gold revenue: Bulyanhulu North Mara Buzwagi Group Unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative contracts: and Cash cost per ounce sold 840 498 594 587 Export duties Corporate administration 59 26 35 45 Share-based payments 6 2 2 14 It also includes realised gains and losses on gold hedge contracts Rehabilitation 20 11 5 11 reported as part of cost of sales.
CSR expenses 10 11 8 14 Net average realised gold price per ounce sold have been calculated Capitalised development 367 188 170 as follows: Sustaining capital 83 71 27 62 Year ended Total AISC 1,373 803 667 875 US$000 31 December 2017 2016 US$ oz sold Year ended 31 December 2016 1 Bulyanhulu North Mara Buzwagi Group Gold revenue 744,294 1,014,468 Realised gold hedge gains losses 2,693 1,818 Cash cost per ounce sold 722 410 1,031 640 Net gold revenue 746,987 1,012,651 Corporate administration 21 21 26 27 Gold sold ounces 592,861 816,743 Share-based payments 2 2 3 37 Net average realised gold price US$ ounce 1,260 1,240 Rehabilitation 7 9 3 7 CSR expenses 6 15 10 13 Cash cost per ounce sold is a non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs Capitalised development 226 201 170 include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, and Sustaining capital 74 75 22 64 production taxes, and exclude capitalised production stripping costs, Total AISC 1,058 733 1,095 958 inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised gains losses from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, depreciation and 1 T he Group total includes a credit of US$5 oz of unallocated corporate related costs in 2017, and a cost of US$43 oz in 2016. amortisation and corporate social responsibility charges.
Cash cost is calculated net of co-product revenue.
Cash cost per ounce sold is AISC is intended to provide additional information on the total sustaining calculated by dividing the aggregate of these costs by total ounces sold.
cost for each ounce sold, taking into account expenditure incurred in addition to direct mining costs and selling costs.
The presentation of these statistics in this manner allows Acacia to monitor and manage those factors that impact production costs on a Cash cost per tonne milled is a non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs and cash cost per ounce sold are calculated include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, co-product on a consistent basis for the periods presented.
credits, and production taxes, and exclude capitalised production stripping costs, inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised The table below provides a reconciliation between cost of sales and total gains losses from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, cash cost to calculate the cash cost per ounce sold.
depreciation and amortisation and corporate social responsibility Year ended charges.
Cash cost US$000 31 December per tonne milled is calculated by dividing the aggregate of these costs 2017 2016 by total tonnes milled.
Total cost of sales 458,447 727,080 1 Deduct: depreciation and amortisation 106,201 163,796 EBITDA is a non-IFRS financial measure.
Acacia calculates EBITDA as net Deduct: realised losses on gold hedges 2,693 1,818 profit or loss for the period excluding: Deduct: Co-product revenue 7,221 39,063 Income tax expense: Total cash cost 347,718 522,403 Finance expense: Total ounces sold 592,861 816,743 Total cash cost per ounce sold 587 640 Finance income: Depreciation and amortisation: and 1 D epreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost of inventory sold Impairment charges of goodwill and other long-lived assets.
EBITDA is intended to provide additional information to investors and analysts.
It does not have any standardised meaning prescribed by IFRS and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
EBITDA excludes the impact of cash costs of financing activities and taxes, and the effects of changes in operating working capital balances, and therefore is not necessarily indicative of operating profit or cash flow from operations as determined under IFRS.
Other companies may calculate EBITDA differently.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 171 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED A reconciliation between net profit for the period and EBITDA is Adjusted net earnings per share is a non-IFRS financial measure and presented below: is calculated by dividing adjusted net earnings by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Year ended US$000 31 December Free cash flow is a non-IFRS measure and represents the change in cash 2017 2016 and cash equivalents in a given period.
Net loss profit for the period 707,394 94,944 Net cash is a non-IFRS measure.
It is calculated by deducting total Plus income tax credit expense 2,272 147,113 borrowings from cash and cash equivalents.
Plus depreciation and amortisation 106,201 163,796 1 Plus: impairment charges 850,182 Mining statistical information Plus finance expense 12,407 11,047 The following describes certain line items used in the Acacia Groups Less finance income 1,944 1,512 discussion of key performance indicators: EBITDA 257,180 415,388 Open pit material mined measures in tonnes the total amount of open 1 Refer to Note 7 in the financial statements.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-IFRS financial measure.
It is calculated by Underground ore tonnes hoisted measures in tonnes the total amount excluding one-off costs or credits relating to non-routine transactions of underground ore mined and hoisted.
It excludes other credits and charges that, individually Underground ore tonnes trammed measures in tonnes the total or in aggregate, if of a similar type, are of a nature or size that requires amount of underground ore mined and trammed.
explanation in order to provide additional insight into the underlying Total tonnes mined includes open pit material plus underground business performance.
EBITDA is adjusted for items a to e as ore tonnes hoisted.
contained in the reconciliation to adjusted net earnings below.
Strip ratio measures the ratio of waste to ore for open pit EBIT is a non-IFRS financial measure and reflects EBITDA adjusted material mined.
for depreciation and amortisation and goodwill impairment charges.
Ore milled measures in tonnes the amount of ore material processed Adjusted net earnings is a non-IFRS financial measure.
It is calculated through the mill.
by excluding certain costs or credits relating to non-routine transactions Head grade measures the metal content of mined ore going into from net profit attributed to owners of the parent.
It includes other credit a mill for processing.
and charges that, individually or in aggregate, if of a similar type, are of Milled recovery measures the proportion of valuable metal physically a nature or size that requires explanation in order to provide additional recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated as a insight into the underlying business performance.
percentage of the metal recovered compared to the total metal Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share have been originally present.
calculated as follows: Year ended US$000 31 December 2017 2016 Net loss earnings 707,394 94,944 Adjusted for: 2 Restructuring cost a 23,577 7,689 Discounting of indirect taxes b 13,276 9,719 One-off legal settlements c 5,083 1 Prior year tax positions recognised 69,916 3 Reduced operational cost d 11,411 Insurance settlements e 3,455 4 Impairment charges write-offs f 850,182 1 Provision for uncertain tax positions g 172,000 Tax impact of the above 221,917 1,646 Adjusted net earnings 146,218 161,021 1 I ncludes a tax provision raised of US$172.0 million for uncertain tax positions, based on an estimate of the impact of a comprehensive settlement reflecting the key terms of the framework announcements made by Barrick and the GoT in October 2017.
For the 12 months ended 31 December 2016, US$69.9 million represents a provision raised for the implied impact of an adverse tax ruling made by the Tanzanian Court of Appeal with respect to historical tax assessments of Bulyanhulu.
As reported in Q1 2016, the impact of the ruling was calculated for Bulyanhulu and extrapolated to North Mara and Tulawaka as well and covers results up to the end of 2015.
On a site basis, US$35.1 million was raised for Bulyanhulu, US$30.4 million for North Mara and US$4.4 million for Tulawaka.
2 R estructuring costs mainly relate to Bulyanhulu US$16.9 million as a result of the transition to reduced operations and other sites US$8.2 million.
3 R educed operations costs not part of Bulyanhulus AISC cost and includes stock obsolescence costs for 2017 US$6 million and contractor exit costs US$4.9 million.
4 Refer to Note 7 in the financial statements 172 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Basis of preparation for the reporting of tax data Indirect taxes This basis of preparation supports the reporting of tax data contained on These comprise VAT and other fuel levies that arise on the purchase page 52 of this Annual Report.
Generally, the references to Tax in this of goods and services and are paid to third parties, to be refunded context mean any amount of money required to be paid to, or repaid by, by Governments.
Typically, these taxes would form part of a sales tax a Government.
Refunds received are included in the taxes refunded category.
In overview, the key information presented as regards Tax is as follows: Stamp duty Taxes borne This comprises taxes that arise on transfers of assets or capital.
These are taxes that the Acacia Group is obliged to pay to a Government Typically, these taxes would be reflected in stamp duty returns made on its own behalf, or taxes that it is obliged to pay to a third party and to Governments and tend to become payable, and are paid, to that can cannot be recovered from a Government.
The main taxes that Governments shortly after capital or assets are transferred.
we have included in this category are: Taxes collected Government royalties These are taxes that a company is obliged to collect from others These comprise payments made to Governments in the form of royalties.
The main taxes that we have included in Typically these tend to become payable, and are paid, in the year this category are: to which they relate.
These taxes form part of our operating costs.
Employee payroll taxes Corporate income tax These comprise payroll and employee taxes withheld from employee This comprises any tax on the business calculated on the basis of its remuneration and paid to Governments, i. e. taxes collected by profits, income or capital gains.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected Acacia and remitted to Governments on behalf of employees under in corporate income tax returns made to Governments.
arrangements such as PAYE schemes.
Typically, these taxes would Customs duties be reflected in payroll tax returns made to Governments and tend These comprise all customs excise import and export duties.
Typically, to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly these taxes tend to become payable and are paid to Governments throughout the year, shortly after submission of the return.
at the point where goods are imported and exported from territories.
Withholding taxes collected from suppliers These taxes form part of our operating and capital incurred costs.
These comprise taxes that are required to be withheld in advance on Employer payroll taxes payments made to suppliers.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected These comprise payroll and employer taxes payable as a result of a in income tax returns made to Governments and tend to be payable, companys capacity as an employer.
Typically, these taxes would be and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year reflected in payroll tax returns made to Governments and tend to be shortly after the submission of the return.
payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout Taxes refunded the year shortly after the submission of the return.
These taxes form These are taxes that are refunded by Governments to Acacia, and mostly part of our operating costs.
comprise the following: Environmental taxes Indirect taxes mainly VAT and fuel levies These comprise levies or other payments to Governments relating to Typically, indirect taxes would tend to become repayable and are repaid environmental policy.
Typically, these taxes tend to be payable on an by Governments regularly often quarterly throughout the year, shortly annual basis.
These taxes are also included in our operating costs.
after the submission of relevant sales tax returns.
Also included are other refunds received.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 173
