SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES All enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification of change Forward-looking statements of address or dividend payments should be made to Acacias registrars, This report includes forward-looking statements that express or imply Computershare Investor Services PLC, whose contact details are as expectations of future events or results.
Forward-looking statements follows: are statements that are not historical facts.
These statements include, without limitation, financial projections and estimates and their underlying Computershare Investor Services PLC assumptions, statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations The Pavilions with respect to future production, operations, costs, projects, and Bridgwater Road statements regarding future performance.
Forward-looking statements Bristol BS99 6ZZ are generally identified by the words plans, expects, anticipates, United Kingdom believes, intends, estimates and other similar expressions.
Helpline number: 44 0 370 707 1895 All forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties Computershare online enquiry service and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Acacia, which Computershare provides a range of services through its online could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from portal, Investor Centre, which can be accessed free of charge at those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements www.
co. uk contained in this report.
Factors that could cause or contribute to This service enables shareholders to check details of their shareholdings differences between the actual results, performance and achievements or dividends, download forms to notify changes in personal details and of Acacia include, but are not limited to, changes or developments in access other relevant information.
political, economic or business conditions or national or local legislation or regulation in countries in which Acacia conducts or may in the future Payment of dividends conduct business, industry trends, competition, fluctuations in the spot As a result of negative cash flow arising from the ban of exporting and forward price of gold or certain other commodity prices such as concentrate from Tanzania, no interim dividend was paid during 2017, copper and diesel, currency fluctuations including the US dollar, South in line with Acacias cash flow based dividend policy.
The Board has African rand, Kenyan shilling and Tanzanian shilling exchange rates, not recommended the payment of any final dividend for the year ended Acacias ability to successfully integrate acquisitions, Acacias ability 31 December 2017. to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, including its ability to Electronic communications convert its resources into reserves and its mineral potential into Acacia has obtained shareholders consent to send and supply resources or reserves, and to process its mineral reserves successfully documents and information to shareholders in electronic form and via and in a timely manner, Acacias ability to complete land acquisitions Acacias website, in accordance with provisions contained in Acacias required to support its mining activities, operational or technical Articles of Association.
difficulties which may occur in the context of mining activities, delays and technical challenges associated with the completion of projects, risk of Increased use of electronic communications will deliver additional trespass, theft and vandalism, changes in Acacias business strategy savings to Acacia in terms of administration, printing and postage costs, including, the on-going implementation of operational reviews, as well as as well as speeding up the provision of information to shareholders.
risks and hazards associated with the business of mineral exploration, The reduced use of paper will also have environmental benefits.
development, mining and production and risks and factors affecting the Shareholder security gold mining industry in general.
Although Acacias management believes Shareholders should be cautious of any unsolicited financial advice, that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are offers to buy shares at a discount or any other unsolicited advice reasonable, Acacia cannot give assurances that such statements will regarding investment matters.
More detailed information is provided prove to be correct.
Accordingly, investors should not place reliance on at www.
uk consumers forward-looking statements contained in this report.
Financial calendar Any forward-looking statements in this report only reflect information Financial year-end 31 December 2017 available at the time of preparation.
Save as required under the Market 12 February 2018 Preliminary results for 2017 Abuse Regulation or otherwise under applicable law, Acacia explicitly Annual General Meeting 19 April 2018 disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to update or revise any Quarterly results Q1 2018 19 April 2018 forward-looking statements in this report, whether as a result of new July 2018 information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this report should Half year report 2018 be construed as a profit forecast or estimate and no statement made Quarterly results Q3 2018 October 2018 should be interpreted to mean that Acacias profits or earnings per share Production results Q4 2018 January 2019 for any future period will necessarily match or exceed the historical published profits or earnings per share of Acacia.
174 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 175 NOTES 176 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 This report is printed on Magno Satin paper.
Manufactured at a mill that is FSCaccredited.
Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSCChain of Custody certified.
Designed and produced by SampsonMay Telephone: 020 7403 4099 www.
com ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Acacia Mining plc Corporate Brokers 5th Floor J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. No.
1 Cavendish Place 25 Bank Street London W1G 0QF Canary Wharf United Kingdom London E14 5JP United Kingdom Registered number: 7123187 RBC Capital Markets Investor Relations Thames Court Giles Blackham 1 Queenhithe Head of Investor Relations and London EC4V 3DQ Corporate Development United Kingdom Phone: 44 0 20 7129 7150 E-mail: gblackham@acaciamining.
com Auditors  LLP Registrars 1 Embankment Place Computershare Investor Services PLC London WC2N 6RH The Pavilions United Kingdom Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom Additional information regarding Acacia can be found on our website: www.
