O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE F FIINAN NANC CIIA AL L & & O OT TH HER ER I IN NF FO OR RM MA AT TION ION 6 We have nothing to report on the other Irregularities ability to detect matters on which we are required to report We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the byexception financial statements from our sector experience, through Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report discussion with the directors and other management toyou if, in our opinion: asrequired by auditing standards.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have affect the financial statements including financial reporting notbeen received from branches not visited by us: or including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
the parent Company financial statements and the part of We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and theRemuneration Committee Report to be audited are not regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or statements items.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations law are not made: or in the specific areas of anti-bribery recognising the nature of the Groups activities.
With the exception of any known we have not received all the information and explanations or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing we require for our audit.
standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of We have nothing to report in these respects.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part 7 Respective responsibilities of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
Directors responsibilities We communicated identified laws and regulations As explained more fully in their statement set out on throughout our team and remained alert to any indications page103, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included the financial statements including being satisfied that they give communication from the Group to component audit teams a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level, with isnecessary to enable the preparation of financial statements a request to report on any indications of potential existence that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters bythe component team.
related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and alternative but to do so.
regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the Auditors responsibilities override of internal controls.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free 8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other we owe our responsibilities irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when might state to the Companys members those matters we it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no or error and are considered material if, individually or in other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our statements.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation not just those directly affecting the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on theFRCs website at www.
John Luke Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 319 St Vincent Street Glasgow G2 5AS 6 March 2018 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 109
