O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Going concern and viability statements Human rights The going concern statement is included on page 116 of the As we continue to grow our business in developing countries, financial statements.
we recognise that human rights are a concern in many regions in which we operate.
We have a responsibility to The viability statement is included on page 55 of the all ofour stakeholders, to ensure that all of our interactions Strategic Report.
with them meet or exceed the standards of compliance set out in our ethics policies, approach to equal opportunities, Change of control health and safety policies, environmental policies and The Company has in place a number of agreements with grievance mechanisms, all of which are explained in detail advisers, financial institutions and customers which contain throughout this report.
We have also identified safety and certain termination rights which would have an effect on a talent management as matters to be considered as part of change of control.
The Directors believe these agreements the principal risks facing the business.
Whilst all these matters to be commercially sensitive and that their disclosure would are linked, to a greater or lesser extent, to human rights, we be seriously prejudicial to the Company: accordingly, they do prefer to address them as part of our operations, rather than not intend disclosing specific details of these.
In addition, all as a separate issue.
We continue to evaluate all potential risks of the Companys share schemes contain provisions which in and do not think that human rights present material issues the event of a change of control, would result in outstanding forour business.
options and awards becoming exercisable, subject to the rules of the relevant schemes.
Pensions The assets of the UK defined-benefit pension fund are There are no agreements between the Company and its controlled by the Directors of Aggreko Pension Scheme Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss Trustee Limited: they are held separately from the assets of ofoffice or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
the Company and invested by independent fund managers.
These segregated funds cannot be invested directly in the Disclosure of information totheCompanys auditor Company.
Four trustees have been appointed by the Company In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and, in addition, two member-nominated trustees have been the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this appointed.
This fundwas closed to new employees joining Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, theGroup after 1 April 2002: new UK employees are now there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section offered membership ofa Group Personal Pension Plan.
418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps Carbon dioxide emissions that they ought to have taken as a Director to make them In line with the Companys Act 2006, we are reporting aware of any relevant audit information and to establish onourgreenhouse gas GHG emissions.
We have used the thatthe Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
method outlined in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, using the Indemnity of officers location-based scope 2 calculation method, together with Under Article 154 of the Articles, the Company may indemnify the latest emission factors from recognised public sources any Director or other officer against any liability, subject to the including BEIS, the International Energy Agency, the US Energy provisions of the Companies Acts, and the Articles grant an Information Administration, the US Environmental Protection indemnity to the Directors against any liability for the costs Agency and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
oflegal proceedings where judgement is given in their favour.
Scope 1 emissions are from those activities owned or operated Under the authority conferred by Article 154, the Company has by Aggreko, and include fuel combusted in the Aggreko granted indemnities to Directors and officers of the Company generator fleet by far the greatest proportion of emissions : and its subsidiaries.
The indemnities do not apply to any claim fuel combusted in Aggreko premises boilers: fuel combusted which arises out of fraud, default, negligence or breach of in Aggreko owned vehicles: refrigerant gas lost from Aggreko fiduciary duty or trust by the indemnified person.
A C units or vehicles: and emissions of SF6.
Scope 1 emissions In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain for are considered to be those which the Company has the most any Director or other officer, insurance against any liability.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover against Scope 2 emissions are from electricity consumed in Aggreko legal action brought against its Directors and officers and the owned premises.
Although the consumption of the electricity Directors and officers of its subsidiaries.
occurs at Aggreko premises, the electricity itself is generated Equal opportunities by a third party i. e. the power station and actual emissions Aggreko is committed to promoting equal opportunities from the production of the electricity occur without Aggrekos for all, irrespective of disability, ethnic origin, gender or any control, hence why this is a separate scope.
other considerations that do not affect a persons ability to Scope 3 emissions are everything else, and consist primarily of perform their job.
Our policies for recruitment, training, career the upstream emissions from fuel combusted in the Aggreko development and promotion of employees are based on the fleet upstream emissions are from all activities associated suitability of the individual and give those who are disabled with the fuel before it is actually combusted, so its extraction, equal treatment with the able bodied where appropriate.
: other scope 3 emissions include Employees disabled after joining the Group are given suitable transport of the fleet by third-party vehicles: business travel: training for alternative employment with Aggreko or elsewhere.
and waste and water supply treatment.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 101 STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED The tables below present the principal findings from GHG As can be seen from the chart below relative emissions have analyses of the previous two years: decreased slightly, with a 14% decrease in the emissions per thousand GBP revenue from 2016.
Total GHGemissions by GHG protocol scope Revenue intensity ratio tCO e thousand 2 tCO e year 2017 2016 2 2017 10.22 Scope 1 14,716,676 15,183,091 2016 11.89 Scope 2 21,414 17,209 Scope 3 2,954,104 2,810,623 2015 11.76 Total 17,692,195 18,010,923 2014 11.84 2013 12.30 Total GHG emissions by fleet non-fleet tCO e year 2017 2016 2 In 2015 we undertook an Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme ESOS assessment in line with the UKEnvironment Agency Fleet 17,556,543 17,746,040 requirements and can confirm that we are compliant with Non-fleet 135,652 264,883 theregulations.
Our next assessment is scheduled for 2019.
Total 17,692,195 18,010,923 In addition, Aggreko's Northern Europe business achieved In line with previous years, the results show that 99% of CEMARS Carbon and Energy Management Reduction GHGemissions arise from the operation of our fleet when it Certification in 2017.
CEMARS allows large organisations is out on rent.
There are three main factors driving our annual or high emissions industries to measure their greenhouse GHG emissions: the fuel type our customers use: the pattern gas emissions, put in place plans to reduce them and have oftheir usage: and the fuel efficiency of the fleet.
both of these steps independently certified.
It is the first global greenhouse gas certification scheme to be accredited In 2017 we emitted 17,692,195 tonnes of CO e, a decrease of 2 to theinternationally recognised ISO 14065 standard.
In line with best practice, our GHG accounting Aggreko isthe first rental company to meet this standard.
systems include an estimate of the upstream GHG emissions associated with fuel supply chains: in 2017 this contributed Branches 16.5% of fleet combustion emissions, accounting for 97.8% Subsidiaries of the Company have established branches ofscope 3 emissions.
inanumber of different countries in which they operate.
As a result of a 2.7% decrease in running hours, a recorded Auditor decrease of 1.1% in GHG emissions is reported for the Resolutions re-appointing KPMG as the Companys and Aggrekofleet in 2017.
This slight disparity is due to a Groups auditor and authorising the Audit Committee to publishedincrease in the 2017 emission factors used determine their remuneration will be proposed at the to calculate upstream emissions.
In terms of the non-fleet activities, emissions from activities associated with third-party freight logistics and company Important events since 31 December 2017 owned vehicles have decreased.
Conversely, emissions There have been no important events affecting the Company from premises activities and business travel have increased, orany subsidiary since 31 December 2017. with an 11% increase in business travel emissions being the most significant.
Political donations No political donations were made during the financial year The intensity ratio expresses the GHG impact per unit 2016:nil.
ofphysical activity or economic output, with a declining intensityratio reflecting a positive performance improvement.
Approval of the Strategic Report and Directors Report In 2013 we chose Revenue Intensity as the most suitable The Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 55 and Directors metricfor our business for then and future years.
Report set out on pages 56 to 103 were approved by the Board on 6 March 2018 and have been signed by the CompanySecretary on behalf of the Board.
Peter Kennerley Group Legal Director & Company Secretary 6 March 2018 102 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
