O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION 31.
A5 Pensions continued Risks to which the Pension Scheme exposes the Group There is a risk of asset volatility leading to a deficit in the Scheme.
Working with the Company, the Trustee has agreed a phased implementation of an investment strategy which will reduce the Schemes exposure to adverse movements in interest rates and inflation.
The reduction in interest rate and inflation risk will be achieved by investing in Liability Driven Investment LDI funds whichbetter match the liabilities of the Scheme and reduce the risk of funding level volatility.
Once the phased implementation ofthe LDI funds is completed expected to be achieved by September 2018 the Scheme will have removed 50% of interest rate andinflation risk as measured on a gilts flat basis.
Through the Scheme, the Group is exposed to a number of other risks: Changes in bond yields a decrease in corporate bond yields will increase Scheme liabilities.
Inflation risk pension obligations are linked to inflation and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
Life expectancy an increase in life expectancy will result in an increase in the Scheme liabilities.
The measurement of the defined benefit obligation is particularly sensitive to changes in key assumptions as described below: The discount rate has been selected following actuarial advice and taking into account the duration of the liabilities.
A decrease inthe discount rate of 0.5%per annum would result in a 21 million increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation liabilities is around 30 years.
The inflation assumption adopted is consistent with the discount rate used.
It is used to set the assumptions for pension increases, salary increases and deferred revaluations.
An increase in the inflation rate of 0.5% per annum would result in a 20 million increase inthe present value ofthe defined benefit obligation.
The longevity assumptions adopted are based on those recommended by the Scheme Actuary advising the Trustee of the Scheme and reflect the most recent mortality information available at the time of the Trustee actuarial valuation.
The increase inthe present value of the defined benefit obligation due to members living one year longer would be 5 million.
There is a risk that changes in the above assumptions could increase the deficit in the Scheme.
Other assumptions used to value thedefined benefit obligation are also uncertain, although their effect is less material.
2017 2016 million million Defined benefit obligation by participant status Actives 59 57 Deferreds 47 51 Pensioners 28 27 134 135 The duration of the liabilities is approximately 29 years.
Expected cash flows in future years Expected employer contributions for the year ended 31 December 2018 are 3 million.
Expected total benefit payments: approximately 7million per year for the next 10 years.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 153
