Glossary of terms Active Customers those Customers that have placed Disclosure and Transparency Rules the Disclosure and atleast one order within the last 12 months.
Transparency Rules made under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
Adjusted earnings per share profit attributable to the equity shareholders, before long-term employee incentive EBITDA earnings before finance income and costs, costs, exceptional items, other gains and losses, foreign taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
exchange gains and losses, amortisation of acquired EBTs the Employee Benefit Trusts, which are administered intangible assets, share of results from associates below by Estera Trust Jersey Limited formerly known as uEBITDA, and the tax impact of these adjusting items: Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, Ocorian Limited and divided by the weighted average number of shares Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited.
ECAC El Cocinero a Cuerda SL.
Admission the admission of the Ordinary Shares to the High Growth Segment of the Main Market of the London Stock EMI Scheme the Just Eat Enterprise Management Exchange which occurred on 8 April 2014.
the Group transitioned to the Premium Listing Segment EPS earnings per share.
ofthe Official List of the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
Established Markets includes the Groups operations in AGM the Annual General Meeting of the Company, which Canada, Denmark, France, Ireland, Norway, Switzerland will be held on 26 April 2018 at 9.30am at The Lincoln Centre, and Benelux sold August 2016.
ANZ the Groups operations in Australia & New Zealand.
Executive Directors Peter Plumb appointed 18 September APA advanced pricing agreement.
2017, Paul Harrison, David Buttress resigned 31 March 2017 Articles the Articles of Association of the Company.
and John Hughes as Executive Chairman between 1 April and 28 April 2017.
Average revenue per order ARPO calculated as order driven revenue divided by the number of orders.
Exceptional items items that, by virtue of their nature and incidence, have been disclosed separately in order Benelux the Groups former operations in Belgium and todraw them to the attention of the reader of the Netherlands sold in August 2016. financialstatements.
BEPS base erosion and profit shifting.
Executive Team The Executive Directors, Adrian Blair Board the Board of Directors of Just Eat plc.
Chief Operating Officer, Graham Corfield UK Managing Director, Barnaby Dawe Chief Marketing Officer, Jerome Cash conversion net cash flow generated from operating Gavin International Managing Director, Fernando Fanton activities, excluding those amounts held for Restaurant Chief Product and Technology Officer and Lisa Hillier Partners, as a percentage of uEBITDA.
FRC the Financial Reporting Council.
FTSE The Financial Times Stock Exchange Index.
CMA the UK Competition and Markets Authority.
FTSE ex IT FTSE excluding investment trusts.
CODM the chief operating decision maker.
Full-time equivalent FTE the number of employees Companies Act the Companies Act 2006 as amended.
after factoring in reduced hours worked by part time staff.
Company Just Eat plc, a company incorporated in FVLCD fair value less costs of disposal.
Englandand Wales with registered number 06947854, FVTPL fair value through profit or loss.
whose registered office is at Masters House, 107Hammersmith Road, London W14 0QH.
GAAP generally accepted accounting principles.
Constant currency applying the foreign exchange rates GDPR General Data Protection Regulation, as defined used in the current period to the results of the prior period.
CSOP the Just Eat Company Share Option Plan.
Group Just Eat plc and its subsidiary undertakings asdefined by the Companies Act 2006.
Customer end users of the Just Eat websites and apps, who use them to place orders online.
hellofood Brazil Hellofood Intermediacal fide Negocios Ltd, which was acquired in February 2016 and immediately sold DCF discounted cash flow.
to IF-JE, an associated undertaking of the Group.
Developing Markets includes the Groups operations in hellofood Mexico Inversiones Hellofood S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Italy, Mexico and Spain.
which was acquired in February 2016.
Directors the Directors of the Company whose names are HMRC Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 146 Financial statements Hungryhouse Hungryhouse Holdings Limited, acquired Other gains and losses the profits or losses arising on the by the Group on 31 January 2018. disposal and deemed disposal of operations, gains and losses on financial assets classified as fair value through IAS International Accounting Standard s. profit or loss, gains and losses on derivative financial IF-JE iFood IF-JE Participaes S. A. the Groups Latin instruments, and movements on provisions for deferred American associated undertaking.
consideration or obligations to acquire minority interests.
IF-JE NL IF-JE Holdings B. V. the Groups associated Partner centre the global support portal for Just Eats undertaking that holds a 49% stake in our Mexican Restaurant Partners, featuring restaurant and menu business.
This associate is 67% owned by Movile.
management tools, reviews and ratings, order history and invoicing.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard s asadopted for use in the European Union.
People all 2,900 of our Just Eaters who live and breathe our values of Make Happy, Razor Sharp and Big Hearted.
PizzaBo Webs S. r. l, which was acquired in February 2016 IPO initial public offering of the Companys Ordinary and subsequently merged with Just Eat Italy S. r. l. Shares immediately post-admission on 8 April 2014.
PSP the Just Eat plc Performance Share Plan Just Connect Terminal JCT mobile network technology provided to Restaurant Partners, which QSR Quick Service Restaurant chains are restaurants enables them to receive orders from Just Eat.
that offer standardised, mostly counter-service hand held food at a mass-market price point.
The ambiance is mostly Just Eat the Group or Just Eat plc and its subsidiary functional for a high turnover environment fixed seating undertakings as defined by the Companies Act 2006. and table tops, fluorescent lighting and the chains JSOP the Just Eat Joint Share Ownership Plan.
The segment is dominated by global branded chains e. g. McDonalds, KFC, Subway, Burger King.
La Nevera Roja Grupo Yamm Comida a Domicilio S. L. which was acquired in April 2016 and subsequently merged Restaurant Partner any restaurant signed up to Just Eat, with Just Eat Spain SLU.
offering either delivery or collection services via the Just Eat websites or apps.
Restaurant Services a programme that provides MAP mutual agreement procedure.
exclusive deals and discounts on key supplies to our Marketplace models A two-sided marketplace is the Restaurant Partners.
traditional marketplace model, consisting of the Customer Shareholder a holder, for the time being, of Ordinary and the Restaurant Partner, who manages all food related shares of the Company.
logistics, with Just Eat managing the payment processing.
In a three-sided marketplace, a delivery partner is SinDelantal SinDelantal Mexico S. A. fide C. V. the Groups introduced into the above market to manage the delivery Mexican subsidiary.
of food from the Restaurant Partner to the Customer.
SkipTheDishes SkipTheDishes Restaurant Services Inc. Payment by the Customer must be made online.
Menulog Menulog Group Limited and its subsidiary SIP the Just Eat Share Incentive Plan.
undertakings, which include the Groups operations in Australia & New Zealand.
The Code UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
TSR total shareholder return, being the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that Mobile device smartphones, tablets and any other dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares.
uEBITDA the main measure of profitability used by Movile Movile Internet Movel S. A. management to assess the performance of the Groups NCI non-controlling interest.
It is defined as earnings before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation NIC national insurance contribution.
and amortisation EBITDA, and additionally excludes Non-executive Directors the Non-executive Directors long-term employee incentive costs, exceptional items, ofthe Company designated as such on pages 46 and 47. foreign exchange gains and losses, other gains and losses, and the share of results from associates falling outside of OECD the Organisation for Economic Co-operation.
Orderpad internet connected Android tablet provided to VAT UK value added taxation.
Restaurant Partners, which enables them to receive orders and provide order tracking to Customers.
Ordinary Shares the Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of 0.01 each in the share capital of the Company.
