O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended 31 December 2017 Profit for the year 64 125 Other comprehensive income loss Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of retirement benefits 5 29 Taxation on remeasurement of retirement benefits 1 5 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Cash flow hedges 2 1 Taxation on cash flow hedges 1 Other comprehensive income loss for the year net of tax 5 23 Total comprehensive income for the year 69 102 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 155 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2017 As at 31 December 2017 Attributable to equity holders of the Company Ordinary Share Capital Share premium Treasury redemption Hedging Retained Total capital account shares reserve reserve earnings equity million million million million million million million Balance at 1 January 2017 42 20 14 13 3 428 486 Profit for the year 64 64 Other comprehensive income loss : Fair value gains on interest rate swaps net of tax 1 1 Remeasurement of retirement benefits net of tax 4 4 Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31December 2017 1 68 69 Transactions with owners: Employee share awards 8 8 Issue of Ordinary Shares to employees under share option schemes 7 7 Dividends paid during 2017 69 69 7 68 61 Balance at 31 December 2017 42 20 7 13 2 428 494 As at 31 December 2016 Attributable to equity holders of the Company Ordinary Share Capital Share premium Treasury redemption Hedging Retained Total capital account shares reserve reserve earnings equity million million million million million million million Balance at 1 January 2016 42 20 9 13 4 391 453 Profit for the year 125 125 Other comprehensive income loss : Fair value gains on interest rate swaps 1 1 Remeasurement of retirement benefits net of tax 24 24 Total comprehensive income for the year ended 31December 2016 1 101 102 Transactions with owners: Purchase of Treasury Shares 8 8 Employee share awards 8 8 Issue of Ordinary Shares to employees under share option schemes 3 3 Dividends paid during 2016 69 69 5 64 69 Balance at 31 December 2016 42 20 14 13 3 428 486 156 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2017 lAS 7, Statement of cash flows.
32 Company accounting policies Paragraph 30 and 31 of lAS 8, Accounting policies, changes 32.1 Basis of preparation in accounting estimates and errors requirements for the disclosure ofinformation when an entity has not applied These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective.
The financial statements have been Paragraph 17 of lAS 24, Related party disclosures prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified keymanagement compensation.
bythe revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair values in accordance The requirements in lAS 24, Related party disclosures with the Companies Act 2006. todisclose related party transactions entered into betweentwoormore members of a group.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
1 Going concern It also requires management to exercise its judgement in theprocess of applying the Companys accounting policies.
Given the going concern disclosures in the Group Accounts on page116, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, financial statements.
inaccordance with FRS 101: Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based 32.1.
2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures payment details of the number and weighted-average New and amended standards adopted by the Company exercise prices of share options, and how the fair value There are no new standards that are effective for the first time ofgoods or services received was determined.
thisyear that have a material impact on the Company.
Property, plant and equipment Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes fairvalue measurement of assets and liabilities.
purchase price, and directly attributable costs of bringing the Paragraph 38 of lAS 1, Presentation of financial statements assets into the location and condition where it is capable for use.
comparative information requirements in respect of: Borrowings costs are not capitalised.
Paragraph 79 a iv of lAS 1: Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis at annual rates estimated to write off the cost of each Paragraph 73 e of lAS 16 Property, plant and equipment: asset over its useful life from the date it is available for use.
Paragraph 188 e of lAS 38 Intangible assets reconciliations The principal period ofdepreciation used is as follows: between the carrying amount at the beginning and end Vehicles, plant and equipment 4 to 8 years.
The following paragraphs of lAS 1, Presentation of Impairment of property, plant and equipment financial statements: Property, plant and equipment is depreciated and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 10 d statement of cash flows : indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
10 f a statement of financial position as at the beginning An impairment lossis recognised for the amount by which of the preceding period : the assets carrying amountexceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is calculated 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, using estimated cash flows.
These are discounted using an appropriate long-term pre-tax interest rate.
For the purposes including cash flow statements : ofassessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest 38B-D additional comparative information : levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows income-generating units.
40A-D requirements for a third statement offinancial position : 111 cash flow statement information : and 134-136 capital management disclosures.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 157 NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent 32 Company accounting policies continued that itis probable that future taxable profit will be available Foreign currencies against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
At individual Company level, transactions denominated in Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange on the there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets day the transaction occurs.
At the year end, monetary assets and against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or assets are translated at the historical rate.
In order to hedge different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Company the balances on a net basis.
enters into forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Companys financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Employee benefits Companys functional currency.
The Company operates both a defined benefit pension scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme.
The accounting Derivative financial instruments policy is identical tothat applied by the consolidated Group The accounting policy is identical to that applied by the assetout on page 120. consolidated Group as set out on page 143.
Investments Borrowings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction sheet of the Company at cost, or nominal value of the shares costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised issued as consideration where applicable, less provision for cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction any impairment in value.
Share-based payments recharged costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the income tosubsidiary undertakings are treated as capital contributions statement over theperiod ofthe borrowings using the effective andare added to investments.
Leases Taxation Leases where substantially all of the risks and rewards of The tax expense for the period comprises current and ownership are not transferred to the Company are classified deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, asoperating leases.
Rentals under operating leases are except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in charged against operating profit ona straight-line basis other comprehensive income or directly in Shareholders overthe term of the lease.
In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly inShareholders funds, Share-based payments respectively.
The accounting policy is identical to that applied by the The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of consolidated Group as set out on page 143 with the exception the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance thatshares issued by the Company to employees of its sheet date in the countries where the Company operates subsidiaries for which no consideration is received are treated and generates taxable income.
Management periodically asan increase in the Companys investment in those subsidiaries.
evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to Dividend distribution interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate Dividend distribution to the Companys Shareholders is on the basis of amounts expected to be paid tothe recognised as a liability in the Companys financial statements tax authorities.
in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences Companys Shareholders.
arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities andtheir carrying amounts in the financial statements.
33 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: or arise from Taxation initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction This is explained in Note 1 to the Group Accounts on page 121. other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit 34 Dividends orloss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates Refer to Note 11 of the Group Accounts.
and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply whenthe related deferred income tax asset is realised orthedeferred income tax liability is settled.
158 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
