Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 196 Other Financial Information Other Financial Information Further information on the tax position of the Group can be found Foreign exchange as follows: Foreign exchange rate movements influence the reported income Audit Committee report page 99 The group tax director gave statement, the cash flow and closing net funds balance.
The average a presentation to the Audit Committee during the year which and spot rates for the principal trading currencies of the Group are covered various matters including tax risks and how they are shown in the table below: managed: 2017 2016 Change Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 125 and USD per GBP Year end spot rate 1.35 1.23 10% 127 Details of key areas of uncertainty and accounting policies Average spot rate 1.29 1.36 -5% for tax: and EUR per GBP Year end spot rate 1.13 1.17 -3% Average spot rate 1.14 1.22 -7% Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 138 to 140 Details of the tax balances in the Consolidated Financial Statements together with a tax reconciliation.
This explains the main drivers of the tax rate.
The Groups global corporate income tax contribution At this stage we expect these items to continue to influence the underlying tax rate.
The reported tax rate is more difficult to forecast Around 95% of the Groups underlying profit before tax excluding due to the impact of significant adjustments to reported profits, joint ventures and associates is generated in the UK, the US, in particular the net unrealised fair value changes to derivative Germany, Norway, Finland and Singapore.
The remaining profits contracts and the recognition of advance corporation tax.
are generated across more than 40 other countries.
This reflects the fact that the majority of the Groups business is undertaken, Information on the Groups approach to managing its tax affairs and employees are based, in the above countries.
In common with most multinational groups, the total of all profits in respect of which corporate income tax is paid is not the same Investments and capital expenditure as the consolidated profit before tax reported on page 116.
The Group subjects all major investments and capital expenditure The main reasons for this are: to a rigorous examination of risks and future cash flows to ensure i th e Consolidated Income Statement is prepared under Adopted that they create shareholder value.
All major investments, including IFRS whereas tax is paid on the profits of each Group company, the launch of major programmes, require Board approval.
which are determined by local accounting rules: The Group has a portfolio of projects at different stages of their ii accounting rules require certain income and costs relating to lifecycles.
Discounted cash flow analysis of the remaining life our commercial activities to be eliminated from, or added to, ofprojects is performed on a regular basis.
the aggregate of all the profits of the Group companies when Sales of engines in production are assessed against criteria in preparing the Consolidated Income Statement consolidation theoriginal development programme to ensure that overall value adjustments : and isenhanced.
iii specific tax rules including exemptions or incentives as determined by the tax laws in each country.
Financial risk management The Groups total corporation tax payments in 2017 were 180m.
The level of tax paid in each country is impacted by the above.
The Board has established a structured approach to financial risk In most cases, i and ii are only a matter of timing and therefore management.
The Financial risk committee Frc is accountable for tax will be paid in an earlier or later year.
As a result, they only managing, reporting and mitigating the Groups financial risks and have a negligible impact on the Groups underlying tax rate, exposures.
These risks include the Groups principal counterparty, which excluding joint ventures and associates would be 34.9% currency, interest rate, commodity price, liquidity and credit rating 2016: 37.5%.
The underlying tax rate including joint ventures and risks outlined in more depth in note 17.
The Frc is chaired by the associates can be found on pages 19 and 50.
This is due to deferred Chief Financial Officer.
The Group has a comprehensive financial tax accounting, details of which can be found in note 5 to the risk policy that advocates the use of financial instruments to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The impact of iii will often manage and hedge business operations risks that arise from be permanent depending on the relevant tax law.
movements in financial, commodities, credit or money markets.
TheGroups policy is not to engage in speculative financial transactions.
The Frc sits quarterly to review and assess the key risksand agree any mitigating actions required.
OTHER INFORMATION Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 197 Other Financial Information Capital structure Credit rating m 2017 2016 Rating Outlook Grade Total equity 5,849 1,864 Moodys Investors Service A3 Negative Investment Cash flow hedges 112 107 Standard & Poors BBB Stable Investment Group capital 5,961 1,971 The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investors Service and Net funds 305 225 Standard & Poors for independent long-term credit ratings.
Atthe date of this report, the Group maintained investment grade ratings Operations are funded through various shareholders funds, bank from both agencies.
The capital structure of the Group reflects the judgement of the Board as to the appropriate balance As a capital-intensive business making long-term commitments of funding required.
Funding is secured by the Groups continued toits customers, the Group attaches significant importance access to the global debt markets.
Borrowings are funded in various tomaintaining or improving the current investment grade currencies using derivatives where appropriate to achieve a required creditratings.
currency and interest rate profile.
The Boards objective is to retain sufficient financial investments and undrawn facilities to ensure that the Group can both meet its medium-term operational commitments Accounting and cope with unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in The Group holds cash and short-term investments which, together accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, with the undrawn committed facilities, enable it to manage its as adopted by the EU.
No new accounting standards had a material impact in 2017.
During the year, the Group extended the maturity of the 1,500m Theimpacts of changes to IFRS, in particular IFRS 15 Revenue from committed bank borrowing facility from 2021 to 2022 and extended Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which the maturity of the 500m committed bank borrowing facility from are effective from 1 January 2018 areincluded within the 2019 to 2020.
Both of these facilities were undrawn at the period accounting policies in note 1. end.
Also during 2017, the Group drew a committed loan of 280m, maturing in 2024.
At the year end, the Group retained aggregate liquidity of 5.1bn, including cash and cash equivalents of 3.0bn Share price and undrawn borrowing facilities of 2.1bn.
Circa 80m of During the year, the share price increased by 27% from 668p to847p, borrowings mature in 2018 and 745m in 2019. compared to a 5% increase in the FTSE aerospace and defence The maturity profile of the borrowing facilities is regularly reviewed sector and a 8% increase in the FTSE 100.
The Companys share price to ensure that refinancing levels are manageable in the context ranged from 640p in January 2017 to 981p inNovember 2016. of the business and market conditions.
There are no rating triggers in any borrowing facility that would require the facility to be accelerated or repaid due to an adverse movement in the Groups credit rating.
The Group conducts some of its business through a number of joint ventures.
A major proportion of the debt of these joint ventures is secured on the assets of the respective companies and is non-recourse to the Group.
This debt is further outlined in note 11.
