STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 4.14.2.
Service charges, insurances and other expenses recoverable fromtenants Income arising from expenses recharged to tenants is recognised in the year in which the compensation becomes receivable.
Service and insurance charges and other such receipts are included in net rental income gross of the related costs, as the Directors consider that the Group acts as principal in thisrespect.
Financeincome Finance income is recognised as interest accrues on cash balances held by the Group.
Interest charged to a tenant on any overdue rental income is also recognised within financeincome.
Financecosts Finance costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with bank and other borrowings.
Any finance costs that are separately identifiable and directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that takes a period of time to complete are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
Finance costs also consist of the amortisation charge of arrangement or other costs associated with the set-up of borrowings, these are amortised over the period of the loan.
All other finance costs are expensed to the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period in which theyoccur.
Taxation Taxation on the profit or loss for the period not exempt under UK REIT regulations comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is expected tax payable on any non-REIT taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the period end date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previousyears.
STANDARDS ISSUED AND EFFECTIVE FROM 1JANUARY2017 There were no new standards for the first time beginning on or after 1 January 2017 that had a significant effect on the Groups financial statements, other than Disclosure initiatives amendment IAS7, which has resulted in a reconciliation of liabilities disclosed for the first time in note 31.
5.1 Standards issued but not yeteffective The following are new standards, interpretations and amendments, which are not yet effective and have not been early adopted in this financial information, that will or may have an effect on the Groups future financialstatements: IFRS9: Financial Instruments effective 1 January2018 : The Group will need to apply an expected credit loss model when calculating impairment losses on its trade and other receivables.
This may result in increased impairment provisions and greater judgement due to the need to factor in forward looking information.
It will need to consider the probability of default occurring over the contractual life of its trade receivables and contracts.
As the Company has tenants with strong covenants and generally tenant receipts are received in advance or on the due date, the Directors do not consider there to be a material impact on the Group financial statements.
IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 January 2018 : The standard is applicable to service charge income but excludes rent receivable, which is within the scope of IFRS 16.
The Group does not believe that the standard will have a material impact on the financial statements as service change income is not material.
The adoption of the standard may result in changes to presentation and disclosure.
The Directors are currently assessing the impact on the financial statements of this standard: however, at present they do not anticipate that the adoption of this will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements as the Group does not hold any material operating leases as lessee.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2017 129
