STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financialinstruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of theinstrument.
Trade and otherreceivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost or their recoverable amount.
Impairment provisions are recognised when there is objective evidence such as significant financial difficulties on the part of the counterparty or default or significant delay in payment that the Company will be unable to collect all of the amounts due under the terms receivable.
The amount of such a provision is the difference between the net carrying amount and the present value of the future expected cash flows associated with the impaired receivable.
For trade debtors, which are reportednet, such provisions are recorded in a separate allowance account with the loss being recognised within administrative expenses.
On confirmation that the trade debtor will not be collectable the gross carrying value of the asset is expensed to the profit and loss against the associatedprovision.
Financialliabilities Financial liabilities including trade payables, other payables, accruals and amounts due to Group undertakings are originally recorded at fair value and subsequently stated at amortised cost under the effective interestmethod.
Investments insubsidiaries The investments in subsidiary companies are included in the Companys Balance Sheet at cost less provision forimpairment.
Share basedpayments The expense relating to share based payments is accrued over the year in which the service is received and is measured at the fair value of those services received.
The extent to which the expense is not settled at the reporting period end is recognised as a liability as any shares outstanding remain contingently issuable.
Contingently issuable shares are treated as dilutive to the extent that, based on market factors prevalent at the reporting year end date, the shares would beissuable.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates andassumptions The preparation of the Companys financial information requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the reporting date.
However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in future years.
There were no significant accounting judgements, estimates or assumptions in preparing these financialstatements.
TAXATION Year ended Year ended 31December 31December 2017 2016 m m UK corporation tax Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2017 155
