Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATEDACCOUNTS 1.
CORPORATEINFORMATION The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31December2017 comprise the results of Tritax Big Box REIT plc the Company and its subsidiaries and were approved by the Board for issue on 7March2018.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys Ordinary Shares are admitted to the official list of the UK Listing Authority, a division of the Financial Conduct Authority, and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The registered address of the Company is disclosed in the Company Information.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report.
BASIS OFPREPARATION The consolidated financial information has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European Union and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IASRegulations.
The comparative information disclosed relates to the year ended 31December2016.
The Groups financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis, as modified for the Groups investment properties and interest rate derivatives, which have been measured at fair value through the Group Statement of ComprehensiveIncome.
The consolidated financial information is presented in Sterling, which is also the Groups functional currency, and all values are rounded to the nearest million m, except where otherwiseindicated.
The Group has chosen to adopt EPRA best practice guidelines for calculating key metrics such as net asset value and earnings pershare.
Goingconcern The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as explained within Accountability.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS,  The preparation of the Groups financial information requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the reporting date.
However, uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability affected in futureperiods.
Judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financialinformation: Company Information, page 170 Strategic Report, pages 1-77 Accountability, pages 93-95 124 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2017
