STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Businesscombinations The Group acquires subsidiaries that own investment properties.
At the time of acquisition, the Group considers whether each acquisition represents the acquisition of a business or the acquisition of an asset.
The Group accounts for an acquisition as a business combination where an integrated set of activities is acquired in addition to theproperty.
Where such acquisitions are not judged to be the acquisition of a business, they are not treated as business combinations.
Rather, the cost to acquire the corporate entity is allocated between the identifiable assets and liabilities of the entity based upon their relative fair values at the acquisition date.
Accordingly, no goodwill or additional deferred taxarises.
Operating lease contracts the Group aslessor The Group has acquired investment properties that are subject to commercial property leases with tenants.
The Group has determined, based on an evaluation of the terms and conditions of the arrangements, particularly the duration of the lease terms and minimum lease payments, that it retains all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these properties and so accounts for the leases as operatingleases.
Estimates Fair valuation of investmentproperty The fair value of investment property is determined, by independent property valuation experts, to be the estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of the valuation in an arms length transaction.
Properties have been valued on an individual basis.
The valuation experts use recognised valuation techniques, applying the principles of both IAS40 and IFRS13.
The valuations have been prepared in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Global StandardsJanuary2017 the Red Book.
Factors reflected include current market conditions, annual rentals, lease lengths and location.
The significant methods and assumptions used by valuers in estimating the fair value of investment property are set out innote15.
Fair valuation of interest ratederivatives In accordance with IAS39, the Group values its interest rate derivatives at fair value.
The fair values are estimated by the loan counterparty with revaluation occurring on a quarterly basis.
The counterparties will use a number of assumptions in determining the fair values including estimations over future interest rates and therefore future cash flows.
The fair value represents the net present value of the difference between the cash flows produced by the contracted rate and the valuationrate.
Basis ofconsolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, as at the year-enddate.
Subsidiaries Where the Company has control over an investee, it is classified as a subsidiary.
The Company controls an investee if all three of the following elements are present: power over the investee, exposure to variable returns from the investee and the ability of the investor to use its power to affect those variable returns.
Control is reassessed wherever facts and circumstances indicate that theremaybe a change in any of these elements ofcontrol.
Segmentalinformation The Directors are of the opinion that the Group is engaged in a single segment business, being the investment in the United Kingdom in Big Boxassets.
The Directors consider that these properties have similar economic characteristics and as a result these individual properties have been aggregated into a single reportable operating element.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2017 125 Financial Statements: Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 4.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 4.4.
Investment property and investment property underconstruction Investment property comprises completed property that is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both.
Property held under a lease is classified as investment property when it is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both, rather than for sale in the ordinary course of business or for use in production or .
The corresponding entry upon recognising lease incentives or fixed minimum rental uplifts is made to investment property.
For further details please see Accounting Policy note4.14.1.
Investment property is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred and is measured initially at cost including transaction costs.
Transaction costs include transfer taxes, professional fees for legal services and other costs incurred in order to bring the property to the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investment property is stated at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values are included in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which they arise under IAS40 InvestmentProperty.
Investment properties under construction are financed by the Group where the Group enters into contracts for the development of a pre-let property under a funding agreement.
All such contracts specify a fixed amount of consideration.
The Group does not expose itself to any speculative development risk as the proposed building is pre-let to a tenant under an agreement for lease and the Group enters into a fixed price development agreement with the developer.
It does, however, undertake certain works including demolition, remediation and other site preparatory works to bring a site to the condition ready for construction of an asset.
Investment properties under construction are initially recognised at cost including any associated costs, which reflect the Groups investment in the assets.
Subsequently, the assets are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of investment properties under construction is estimated as the fair value of the completed asset less any costs still payable in order to complete, which include an appropriate developersmargin.
Additions to properties include costs of a capital nature only.
Expenditure is classified as capital when it results in identifiable future economic benefits, which are expected to accrue to the Group.
All other property expenditure is expensed in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income asincurred.
Investment properties cease to be recognised when they have been disposed of or withdrawn permanently from use and no future economic benefit is expected from disposal.
The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset would result in either gains or losses at the retirement or disposal of investment property.
Any gains or losses are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year of retirement ordisposal.
Derivative financialinstruments Derivative financial instruments, comprising interest rate caps and swaps for hedging purposes, are initially recognised at cost and are subsequently measured at fair value, being the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the agreement at the period end date, taking into account current interest rate expectations and the current credit rating of the Company and its counterparties.
The gain or loss at each fair value remeasurement date is recognised in the Group Statementof Comprehensive Income.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs significant to the fair value measurement as awhole.
126 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 4.6.
Fair valuehierarchy Level 1: Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets orliabilities.
Level 2: Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectlyobservable.
Level 3: Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement isunobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation at the end of each reportingperiod.
Trade and otherreceivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverableamount.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Balances are written off to the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income when the probability of recovery is assessed as beingremote.
Forward funded preletinvestments The Group enters into forward funding development agreements for pre-letinvestments.
The Group will enter into a forward funding agreement with a developer and simultaneously enter into an agreement for lease with a prospective tenant willing to occupy the building once complete.
Licence feesreceivable During the period between initial investment in a forward funded agreement and the rent commencement date under the lease, the Group receives licence fee income.
This is payable by the developer to the Group throughout this period and typically reflects the approximate level of rental income that is expected to be payable under the lease, as and when practical completion is reached.
IAS40.20 states that investment property should be recognised initially at cost, being the consideration paid to acquire the asset, therefore such licence fees are deducted from the cost of the investment and are shown as a receivable.
Any economic benefit of the licence fee is reflected within the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income as a movement in the fair value of investment property and not within gross rental income.
In addition, IAS16.21 indicates that income and expenses from operations that are not to bring an asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended, should be recognised in profitorloss.
Cash held atbank Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash held at bank also includes amounts held in restricted or ring fenced accounts to cover future rent-free periods and certain other capital commitments.
Tradepayables Trade payables are initially recognised at their fair value, being at their invoiced value inclusive of any VAT thatmaybe applicable.
Payables are subsequently measured atcost.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2017 127 Financial Statements: Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 4.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 4.11 Borrowings All borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, all borrowings are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
The effective interest rate is calculated to include all associated transactioncosts.
Any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value will be recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the period of the borrowings.
Share basedpayments The expense relating to share based payments is accrued over the year in which the service is received and is measured at the fair value of those services received.
The extent to which the expense is not settled at the reporting period end is transferred to a liability with a view that there is an expectation that the payment will be settled in cash.
Contingently issuable shares are treated as dilutive to the extent that based on market factors prevalent at the reporting period date, the shares would beissuable.
Dividends payable toShareholders Equity dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
Interim equity dividends are recognised when paid.
Final equity dividends are recognised when approved by the Shareholders at an Annual GeneralMeeting.
Rentalincome Rental income arising from operating leases on investment property is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term and is included in gross rental income in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
A rental adjustment is recognised from the rent review date in relation to unsettled rent reviews, where the Directors are reasonably certain that the rental uplift will be agreed.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are recognised as an expense over the lease term on the same basis as the lease income.
Rental income is invoiced, either monthly or quarterly in advance and for all rental income that relates to a future period: this is deferred and appears within current liabilities on the Group Statement of FinancialPosition.
For leases, which contain fixed or minimum uplifts, the rental income arising from such uplifts is recognised on a straight-line basis over the leaseterm.
Tenant lease incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease together with any further term for which the tenant has the option to continue the lease where, at the inception of the lease, the Directors are reasonably certain that the tenant will exercise thatoption.
Amounts received from tenants to terminate leases or to compensate for dilapidations are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income when the right to receive themarises.
When the Group enters into a forward funded transaction, the future tenant signs an agreement for lease.
No rental income is recognised under the agreement for lease, but once practical completion has taken place the formal lease is signed at which point rental income commences to be recognised in the Group Statement of ComprehensiveIncome.
128 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2017
