Financial Statements NOTES TO THE COMPANYACCOUNTS 1.
ACCOUNTINGPOLICIES Basis ofpreparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements FRS 100 and Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS101.
Disclosure exemptionsadopted In preparing these financial statements the Company has taken advantage of all disclosure exemptions conferred by FRS 101.
Therefore these financial statements do notinclude: Certain comparative information as otherwise required by EU endorsedIFRS: Certain disclosures regarding the Companyscapital: A statement of cashflows: The effect of future accounting standards not yetadopted: The disclosure of the remuneration of key management personnel:and Disclosure of related party transactions with other wholly owned members of Tritax Big Box REITplc.
In addition, and in accordance with FRS 101 further disclosure exemptions have been adopted because equivalent disclosures are included in the Companys consolidated financial statements.
These financial statements do not include certain disclosures in respectof: Share basedpayments: Financialinstruments: Fair value measurement other than certain disclosures required as a result of recording financial instruments at fairvalue.
Principal accountingpolicies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are set out below.
The policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwisestated.
Basis ofaccounting These financial statements have been presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards and policies in the United Kingdom UKGAAP.
Currency The Company financial information is presented in Sterling which is also the Companys functional currency and all values are rounded to the nearest million m, except where otherwiseindicated.
Otherincome Other income represents dividend income which has been declared by its subsidiaries and is recognised when it isreceived.
Dividends payable forshareholders Equity dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
Interim equity dividends are recognised when paid.
Final equity dividends are recognised when approved by the shareholders at an annual generalmeeting.
154 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2017
