SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Going Concern Equiniti Group plc the Company is a public limited company which is The Group meets its day-to-day working capital and financing listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in requirements through its cash generated from operations and its bank the United Kingdom.
The Company and its subsidiaries collectively, the facilities.
The Directors, after making enquiries and on the basis of current Group provide complex administration and payment services, supported financial projections and the facilities available at the reporting date, by technology platforms, to a wide range of organisations.
The registered believe that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue office is Sutherland House, Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, RH10 1UH.
in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the historical financial its subsidiaries.
Investments in subsidiaries 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION Investments in subsidiaries are carried at historical cost less any 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES provisions for impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Basis of preparation Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the depreciation and impairment losses.
For items acquired as part of a consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have business combination, cost comprises the deemed fair value of those been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise items at the date of acquisition.
Depreciation on those items is charged stated.
over their estimated remaining useful lives from that date.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases.
Where the European Union EU, IFRS Interpretation Committee IFRS IC land and buildings are held under leases, the accounting treatment of interpretations as adopted by the EU and the Companies Act 2006 the land is considered separately from that of the buildings.
Leased applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and under to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of financial lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair and impairment losses.
Lease payments are accounted for as described value through profit or loss.
The Groups presentational currency is the below.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income on The 2016 income statement has been re-presented to reflect the Groups a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an revised approach to the presentation of non-statutory accounting item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as measures within the financial statements.
Under this revised approach follows: items previously classified as exceptional items amounting to 5.0m have been represented to be included within administrative expenses.
Freehold improvements 50 years Additionally, non-statutory measures such as EBITDA and EBIT have been Leasehold improvements 2 - 50 years removed from the income statement.
Office equipment 2 - 10 years Earnings per share for 2016 has been restated to reflect the bonus issue Fixtures and fittings 3 - 20 years of shares following the Groups rights issue associated with the WFSS acquisition.
The average number of shares in issued has been restated Goodwill and Intangible assets to 320,391m previously 300,002m.
This has had the impact of reducing basic earnings per share from 10.2p to 9.5p and diluted earnings per Goodwill share from 10.1p to 9.5p.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonBasis of consolidation controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is identifiable net assets acquired.
If the total of consideration transferred, exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power measured at fair value is less than the fair value of the net assets of the over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which subsidiary acquired, in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the recognised directly in the income statement.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the combination is allocated to each of the cash generating units CGU acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued unit to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a purposes.
Goodwill is monitored at the operating segment level.
business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or The carrying value of the CGU containing the goodwill is compared to at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related value less costs of disposal.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as costs are expensed as incurred.
an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
145 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group CONTINUED The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available for sale.
Software The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired and management will determine the classification of its Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes financial assets on initial recognition.
are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design, development and testing of Other financial assets include loans and receivables and derivatives.
identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are Derivatives are explained below.
Loans and receivables are nonrecognised as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments, that are it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will not quoted in an active market.
They are recognised initially at fair value be available for use: and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment, and are included in non-current management intends to complete the software product and use or sell assets as their maturity is greater than 12 months after the end of the it: reporting period.
there is an ability to use or sell the software product: The Group classifies debt and equity instruments as either financial it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate liabilities or as equity, in accordance with the substance of the contractual probable future economic benefits: arrangement.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the residual interest in the assets of the Group, after deducting all of its development and to use or sell the software product are available: and liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recognised at the the expenditure attributable to the software product during its proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
development can be reliably measured.
Under IAS 32, financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: product include the software development employee costs and a they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Other development cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognised as an liabilities with another party, under conditions that are potentially expense as incurred.
Development costs previously recognised as an unfavourable to the Group: and expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Groups own equity Other intangible assets instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to Other intangible assets consist of intangible assets identified as part of a deliver a variable number of the Groups own equity instruments or is a business combination.
They are stated at fair value at date of acquisition derivative that will be settled by the Groups exchanging a fixed amount less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
Customer relationships are valued based on the net present value of the excess earnings generated by the revenue streams over their estimated To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are useful lives.
Order books are valued based on expected revenue classified as a financial liability.
Brand valuation is based on net present value of estimated Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as royalty returns.
Finance payments associated with financial Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income on instruments that are classified in equity are treated as distributions and a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
are recorded directly in equity.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Software development 3 - 5 years Derivative financial instruments Other intangible assets 1 - 20 years Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in Impairment of non-financial assets profit or loss.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill or recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the intangible assets not ready for use, are not subject to amortisation item being hedged see cash flow hedges below.
and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in the Group would receive or pay to terminate the instruments at the circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
statement of financial position date, taking into account current interest An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in Third party valuations are used to fair value the Group derivatives.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the The valuation techniques use inputs such as interest rate yield curves lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cashand currency prices yields, volatilities of underlying instruments and generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered correlations between inputs.
an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and a current liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
146 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Employee benefits CONTINUED Defined contribution plans Cash flow hedges A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a separately administered fund.
The Group The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective in the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
Prepaid portion is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive contributions are recognised as an asset, to the extent that a cash refund income within finance costs.
or reduction in future payments is available.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when Defined benefit plans the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable a defined contribution plan.
The Groups net obligation in respect of rate borrowings is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income defined benefit pension plans is calculated by estimating the amount within finance costs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets at bid price are until the hedged item occurs.
The liability discount rate is the yield at the statement of financial position date on AA credit rated bonds denominated in the Trade receivables currency of, and having maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Trade receivables are stated initially at fair value and subsequently Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less using the projected unit credit method.
Provisions for impairment are recognised when When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all asset is limited to the present value of benefits available in the form of amounts due, according to the original terms of the receivables.
any future refunds from the plan, reductions in future contributions to The impairment recorded is the difference between the carrying value the plan or on settlement of the plan and takes into account the adverse of the receivable and the estimated future cash flows, discounted effect of any minimum funding requirements.
Any impairment is recognised in the statement of Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and comprehensive income within operating costs.
changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in Agency broker balances other comprehensive income, in the period in which they arise.
Where the Group acts as an agency broker for retail investors, balances Current service costs reflect the increase in the defined benefit obligation owed by or to the retail investor and the market maker are recognised resulting from employee service in the current year, benefit curtailments within other receivables and other payables until the settlement date, and settlements.
Payments are recognised as employee benefit expense when these balances are eliminated.
in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past-service costs, which arise as a result of current changes to plan Cash and cash equivalents arrangements affecting the obligation for prior periods, are recognised Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
immediately as employee benefit expense in the statement of Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral comprehensive income.
part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of financial net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of the position and the statement of cash flows, where the Group has a legally plan assets.
The net cost is included within finance costs in the statement enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle on a net of comprehensive income.
Equity settled share-based payment transactions External loans and borrowings The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share based Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestemployees as consideration for equity instruments options of the bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost, with any difference Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for between cost and redemption value being recognised in the statement the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings on an be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options effective interest basis.
On borrowings extinguished, any difference granted: between the cash paid and the carrying value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
including any market performance conditions for example, an entitys share price : Trade payables excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance Trade payables represent liabilities for goods and services received vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and by the Group prior to the end of the financial year which are unpaid.
remaining an employee over a specified period of time : and The amounts within trade payables are unsecured.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, the cost using the effective interest method.
requirement for employees to save or hold shares for a specific period of time.
147 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates CONTINUED of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
At the end of each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest, based on the non-market Revenue vesting conditions and service conditions.
It recognises the impact of the Revenue, which excludes sales taxes, represents the invoiced value revisions to original estimates, if any, in the statement of comprehensive of services provided and software supplied to customers in the UK income, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
and Europe, and also includes interest received on funds under Provisions administration of the Group.
A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Revenue is recognised when the performance obligations have Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past been performed or the significant risks and rewards of ownership are event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be transferred to the customer and it is probable that the economic benefits required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are resulting from this performance will flow to the Group and the revenue determined by discounting the expected, risk adjusted, future cash flows can be reliably measured.
Costs incurred prior to the Group being awarded a contract or achieving Dilapidations provisions relate to estimated costs to revert leased preferred bidder status and mobilisation costs are expensed to the premises back to a required condition expected under the terms of the income statement, as they do not meet the definition of an asset.
These include provisions for wear and tear, along with provisions Amounts recognised as revenue but not yet billed are reflected in the where leasehold improvements have been made that would require statement of financial position as accrued income.
Amounts billed in reinstatement back to original status on exit.
These are uncertain in advance of work being performed are deferred in the statement of timing, as leases may be terminated early or extended.
To the extent that financial position as deferred income.
exits of premises are expected within 12 months of the end of the year, they are shown as current.
Revenue recognition Provisions for onerous leases have been made for unused property space The Groups principle revenue recognition policies are as follows: on operating leases for the period up until the space is estimated to become used or the break clause in the lease, whichever comes earlier.
Professional Services Contingent consideration is provided on the acquisition of a business, The Group is one of the largest providers of outsourced financial services where the monetary amount is dependant on the future performance of in the UK, covering pensions administration, pensions payroll, annuity the acquired business.
Contingent consideration is measured at fair value services, complaints handling, resourcing services, employee share plan through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: administration and share registration services.
A provision is initially recognised as Revenue from fixed-price contracts, which may span a number of years, is the discounted expected liability and unwound over the period until recognised over the period the services are delivered to the client.
Where the legal date of settlement.
The liability is regularly reviewed and the the Group provides staff to customers at hourly or daily rates, revenue is subsequent fair value is calculated by comparing the latest performance recognised on the basis of time worked.
and available budgets and forecasts of the acquired company to the earn-out arrangement in the share purchase agreement, to determine the Software and support most likely outcome.
Software and support is provided by the Pensions Solutions and Share capital Intelligent Solutions businesses for software such as Compendia, Charter and KYC.
Hardware sales and software licences are recognised Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly when goods and perpetual licences are delivered.
Technical support attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a revenues and term licences are recognised rateably over the term of the deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Foreign currency translation Revenue is recognised and deferred on multiple element contracts, for The results and financial position of all Group entities having a different example the sale of a perpetual licence with an annual maintenance and functional currency from the presentational currency are translated into support contract, when an element of the contracted work has not been the presentational currency as follows: completed.
When products are bundled together for the purpose of sale, the associated revenue, net of all applicable discounts, is allocated assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at between the constituent parts of the bundle on a relative fair value basis.
the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: The Group has a systematic basis for allocating relative fair values in income and expenses for each income statement are translated at these situations, based upon published list prices.
average exchange rates: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other Transactional fees comprehensive income within the translation reserve.
Transactional fees are earned in the Investment Solutions business Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a through commission earned on the purchase and sale of shares and on foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity foreign exchange transactions.
and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising from Transactional based fee revenue is recognised at the time of processing retranslation at the closing rate are recognised in other comprehensive the related transactions.
income within the translation reserve.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of 148 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES items such as trade receivables, accrued and deferred income to CONTINUED recognise in the period, management is required to make a number of key judgements and assumptions.
These judgements and assumptions are subjective and may cover future events such as the achievement of Out of pocket expenses contractual milestones and performance KPIs.
In addition, for certain Out of pocket expenses recharged to customers are recognised in contracts, key assumptions are made concerning contract extensions and revenue when they are recoverable from the client, net of the related amendments, as well as opportunities to use the contract-developed expense.
systems and technologies on other similar projects.
Long-term contracts Revenue, profits and contract assets are sensitive to changes in the following accounting estimates and judgements: Revenue with respect to long-term contracts, where delivery of a service spans more than one accounting period, is recognised using the Costs to complete and contract profitability of long-term contracts percentage of completion method.
This occurs within the Investment in determining how much revenue to recognise, management is Solutions division for the supply of corporate actions and within the required to make an assessment of the expected costs to complete Intelligent Solutions division for software solutions.
Forecasting contract costs involves judgements around typically take less than one year to perform but, where the service the number of hours to complete a task, cost savings to be achieved falls into two or more accounting periods, there is a key management over time, anticipated profitability of the contract, as well as contractjudgement around how much revenue to recognise in each period.
Where a contract is anticipated to make The stage of completion is measured by reference to the contract a loss, these judgements are also relevant in determining whether or costs incurred up to the end of the reporting period, as a percentage not an onerous contract provision is required and how this is to be of the total estimated cost for the contract.
Total costs incurred under measured.
contracts in progress, net of amounts transferred to the statement of Recoverability of contract-related assets management is required to comprehensive income, are stated less foreseeable losses and payments determine the recoverability of contract-related assets within property, on account.
plant and equipment, software and contract set-up costs.
Where the relevant contracts are demonstrating marginal profitability, judgement Contract revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration is required in ascertaining whether or not the future economic benefits receivable.
The fair value of consideration might vary due to variations from these contracts are sufficient to recover these assets.
A variation is only included in the contract revenue when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and that the Allocation of revenue with multiple component contracts where amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
An increase in scope of a contracts have multiple components to be delivered, such as software contract will increase both the total revenue and the costs to complete of delivery, implementation and support services, which have to be the contract.
undertaken over the course of the contract, there is judgement in determining the fair value of revenue to be applied to each individual Costs to date and costs to complete for each project are continually component and whether each component is a separable performance monitored through a monthly review process.
If it becomes apparent that obligation.
contract costs will exceed contract revenue, then the loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
It is not practicable to provide a range of reasonably possible outcomes or alternatives, given the complexity and volume of the contracts within Intermediary income the Group, and management believes that the range would not have a material impact on the Group results or year end balances.
Revenue includes interest income earned on funds under administration of the Group.
Further, in Investment Solutions, SAYE income includes Operating segments set up fees, ongoing administration fees, share dealing income and Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the fees derived from interest earned on the scheme balances.
Revenue is internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
recognised as it is earned.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating The following table illustrates revenue recognition policies predominantly resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has used in each reporting segment: been identified as the Board of Directors.
Out of Software Professional  Intermediary Government grants Segment pocket and services al fees complete income expenses support Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised Investment in profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive income in the solutions same periods in which the expenses are recognised.
Grants relating Intelligent to operating expenditure are recognised in profit and loss in the solutions statement of comprehensive income as they are earned.
Grants relating Pensions to intangible assets are netted against the related expenditure, prior to solutions capitalisation, and amortised over the useful life of the asset.
Interest Operating lease payments Accounting estimates and judgements in relation to revenue and related assets and liabilities Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership The Group enters into a wide range of contractual arrangements that are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments govern the delivery of services to our customers, across many different made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of sectors.
The contracts can be complex, given the wide range of services comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the delivered and the various performance targets set, and terms and lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the statement of conditions can be unique to each customer.
comprehensive income as an integral part of the total lease expense.
In determining the amount of revenue, and related balance sheet 149 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2.1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Step 2: Identify the performance obligations what goods or services CONTINUED have we promised to deliver under the contract and are those promises distinct from one another?
Net finance costs Step 3: Determine the transaction price what amount of consideration do we expect to receive in return for delivering the promises under the Net finance costs comprise interest payable, interest receivable on own contract?
funds, foreign exchange gains and losses and the interest cost of defined pension scheme liabilities, net of the expected return on plan assets.
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price how do we allocate the transaction price to each of the identified performance obligations?
Interest income and interest payable is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Step 5: Recognise revenue have we transferred control of the promised Taxation goods or services at a point in time or over time?
As a practical expedient, and as allowed under the standard, we will Tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is apply the 5 step approach under IFRS 15 to portfolios of contracts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, except to the which have similar characteristics and where we expect that the financial extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case statements would not differ materially had the standard been applied to it is recognised in equity.
the individual contracts within the portfolio.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the In terms of change from current accounting, the Group will adopt a fully year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of retrospective approach from 1 January 2018 with restatement of 2017 financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of results, and we anticipate that the most significant impact will be the previous years.
following areas: Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and Software licences the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary Under previous accounting, revenue in relation to the provision of differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the non-perpetual software licences was recognised over the term of that initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting licence.
Under IFRS 15, the Group has determined that the term licences nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and differences provided to the Groups customers result in these customers having the relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will right to use the licence and the performance obligation is delivered in full probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred on the delivery of the licence.
tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates Therefore revenue for the provision of the licence, where the licence is enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position a distinct performance obligation, are now recognised at a point in time date.
on delivery of the licence, rather than over time per step 5 of the 5 step model.
Revenues which were previously spread over 2017 and future A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable years, but where the licence had been delivered prior to 2017 must that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be be recognised prior to 2017 under IFRS 15, resulting in a reduction to utilised.
Conversely, revenue from new licences delivered in 2017 2.2 NEW STANDARDS AND AMENDMENTS would be recognised in full in 2017 rather than over future years, resulting in an increase to revenue in 2017.
The following amended standards have been adopted by the Group in Management have assessed the most significant software licence all periods of the consolidated financial statements: contracts for the Group, and the impact on the year ended 31 December IAS 12 Income Taxes amendment - Recognition of deferred tax assets 2017 would be a net reduction to revenue of 0.4m and an increase to for unrealised losses retained earnings as at 31 December 2017 of 2.3m.
IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows amendment - Disclosure initiative Revenue from transitional services and contract fulfilment costs 2.3 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET ADOPTED Under previous accounting, where a multi-period pensions administration contract was taken on, some contracts with customers had a transition The following new standards are effective for annual periods beginning stage where additional cost was incurred as members records were after 1 January 2018 and have not yet been adopted by the Group: transitioned from a previous supplier to EQ Paymaster.
Revenue would IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers be recognised in line with the cost and effort to provide these transitional services.
IFRS 15, effective for the year beginning 1 January 2018, provides a single, principles-based 5 step model to be applied to all sales contracts, Under IFRS 15, all elements of the contract, including transition activity, based on the transfer of control of goods and services to customers.
are combined under step 2 of the 5 step model.
Transition activity It replaces the separate models for goods, services and construction does not meet the definition of a distinct performance obligation, contracts currently included in IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IAS 18 as it is highly dependent on the underlying administration services Revenue.
Therefore the revenue previously recognised over the transition stage will now be recognised over the expected life The Group has undertaken significant analysis of how IFRS 15 should be of the contract, rather than in-line with the cost profile.
Similarly, costs implemented and we are finalising our review of each large scale contract associated with the transition activity will also be deferred as an asset on which is quantitatively or qualitatively material to the Group, through the balance sheet and released over the expected life of the contract.
adopting a first principles approach according to the 5 step model which IFRS 15 introduces.
Our approach can be summarised as follows: Step 1: Identify the contract is there an enforceable contract, with commercial substance, which has been approved by the parties to that contract?
150 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2.3 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET ADOPTED different to that currently prepared under IAS 39.
The standard is CONTINUED effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group has assessed that there will be no material change to the Therefore, revenue and costs recognised in 2017 relating to contracts accounting or disclosure of financial assets or financial liabilities for the completing in future years will be deferred, and revenues and costs Group when the standard is adopted.
recognised prior to 2017 on contracts completing in 2017 will be There are no other new IFRSs or IFRS IC interpretations not yet adopted recognised in full in 2017 under IFRS 15.
This change in accounting which would be expected to have a material impact on the financial treatment would result in a net increase in revenue for the year ended 31 statements of the Group.
December 2017 of 0.3m and an increase in cost of 0.2m.
It would result in a reduction to retained earnings as at 31 December 2017 of 3.0m 2.4 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Although it is expected that the standard will have an impact on the The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future, the timing and amount of revenue and costs being recognised, there will be results of which may affect the carrying values of amounts in the financial no impact on cash flows, with collection remaining in line with contractual statements.
Estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated terms.
and are based on historical experience and other factors, including IFRS 16 Leases expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, The estimates and judgements that have a significant risk of causing a presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract, i. e. material adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities within the customer lessee and the supplier lessor.
The standard provides a the next financial year are described below.
single lease accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the Accounting estimates and assumptions underlying asset value is low.
The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases and related interpretations and is effective for accounting periods beginning Pension assumptions on or after 1 January 2019.
Early adoption is permitted, subject to EU endorsement and if IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers has The present value of the net defined benefit pension obligation is also been applied.
The Group will adopt IFRS 16 on a retrospective basis dependant on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial from 1 January 2019. basis, using a number of assumptions.
These assumptions, which are set out in note 9.3 Post-employment benefits, include salary rate increases, The Group has assessed the impact of applying the new standard interest rates, inflation rates, the discount rate and mortality assumptions.
on the most significant leases from 1 January 2019 and there would Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying value of the be an increase to non-current assets of approximately 25.2m and a pension obligation and a sensitivity analysis is disclosed in note 9.3. corresponding increase in current and non-current lease liabilities at the start of the year.
In the year ending 31 December 2019, operating costs The discount rate used for calculating the present value of future pension would reduce by approximately 4.2m, depreciation would increase liability cash flows is based on interest rates of high-quality corporate by 3.6m and finance costs would increase by 0.9m.
Overall, EBITDA bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the will be higher as the current operating lease costs will be replaced with related pension obligation.
Also operating cash flows will be Contingent consideration higher, as the lease payments will be reflected within financing activities in the statement of cash flows.
There are various criteria that must be met in order for a payment of contingent consideration to be made.
Provisions for contingent IFRS 9 Financial Instruments consideration are recognised at fair value and generally calculated by IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of comparing the latest performance and available budgets and forecasts of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The complete version of IFRS 9 the acquired company to the earn-out arrangement in the share purchase was issued in July 2014.
It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to agreement.
the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 retains Budgets and forecasts require managements best estimate of the future but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three performance of the company and other key inputs, such as discount rates primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair and growth rates.
The range of possible outcomes is detailed in note 5.3. value through other comprehensive income and fair value through profit and loss.
The basis of classification depends on the entitys business Judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair Revenue on multiple element contracts value through profit or loss, with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income not Where contracts have multiple components to be delivered such as recycling.
There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces software delivery, implementation and support services, which have to the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39, and whilst this would be undertaken over the course of the contract, there is judgement in change the Groups impairment calculation of overdue receivables, it determining whether the various components are separable performance would not materially affect the Group numbers.
For financial liabilities obligations and what is the fair value of revenue to be applied to each there were no changes to classification and measurement except for the individual component.
recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, This impacts the revenue profile of contacts as revenue on the delivery of for liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 9 relaxes a perpetual licence, as a separate performance obligation, is recognised the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line at a point in time whereas revenue on implementation and support is hedge effectiveness tests.
It requires an economic relationship between recognised over time.
Revenue in respect of the provision of perpetual the hedged item and hedging instrument and for the hedged ratio to licences in the year was 5.3m.
be the same as the one management actually uses for risk management purposes.
Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is 151 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 3 OPERATING PROFIT 3.1 REVENUE 2017 2016 Revenue from continuing operations: m m Rendering of services 396.0 371.4 Interest income 10.1 11.2 Total revenue 406.1 382.6 3.2 ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS 2017 2016 Expenses by nature: m m Employee benefit expense note 3.4 174.6 163.2 Direct costs 75.3 69.4 Bought-in services 18.1 18.5 Premises costs 7.2 6.6 Operating lease costs 6.6 7.2 Government grants for research and development 1.6 1.9 Other general business costs 37.9 32.2 Total administrative costs 318.1 295.2 3.3 OPERATING SEGMENTS In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, an operating segment is defined as a business activity whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker CODM and for which discrete information is available.
The Groups CODM is the Board of Directors.
The Groups operating segments have been identified as Investment Solutions, Intelligent Solutions, Pension Solutions and Interest, in line with how the Group runs and structures its business.
Revenue, EBITDA and underlying EBITDA are key measures of the Groups performance.
EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The EBITDA of each segment is reported after charging relevant corporate costs based on the business segments usage of corporate facilities and services.
Underlying EBITDA is adjusted for one-off items which obscure the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group and its respective divisions.
These items primarily represent material restructuring, integration and acquisition related expenses.
Total InterReported revenue segment revenue Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m Investment Solutions 135.1 2.8 132.3 Intelligent Solutions 139.7 15.0 124.7 Pension Solutions 149.5 10.5 139.0 Interest 10.1 - 10.1 Total revenue 434.4 28.3 406.1 Total InterReported revenue segment revenue Year ended 31 December 2016 m m m Investment Solutions 127.0 3.0 124.0 Intelligent Solutions 118.3 9.0 109.3 Pension Solutions 149.8 11.7 138.1 Interest 11.2 - 11.2 Total revenue 406.3 23.7 382.6 152 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 3.3 OPERATING SEGMENTS CONTINUED EBITDA Underlying EBITDA 2017 2016 2017 2016 EBITDA and underlying EBITDA m m m m Investment Solutions 43.5 37.3 43.5 37.5 Intelligent Solutions 33.0 27.3 33.0 28.3 Pension Solutions 24.0 25.9 24.6 27.7 Interest 10.1 11.2 10.1 11.2 Total segments 110.6 101.7 111.2 104.7 Central costs 22.6 14.3 12.7 12.3 Total 88.0 87.4 98.5 92.4 Central costs principally include corporate overheads which cannot be allocated to a specific segment or segments.
2017 2016 Depreciation and amortisation m m Investment Solutions 21.5 22.9 Intelligent Solutions 10.8 8.1 Pension Solutions 8.5 7.2 Total segments 40.8 38.2 Central 9.9 8.5 Total 50.7 46.7 2017 2016 Reconciliation of EBITDA to profit before tax m m EBITDA 88.0 87.4 Depreciation and amortisation 50.7 46.7 Net finance costs 11.7 12.2 Profit before tax 25.6 28.5 Assets and liabilities per segment is not an item which is reviewed by the Board of Directors and is therefore not disclosed within the segmental reporting.
However, capital expenditure is a key measure and is disclosed below.
Capital expenditure consists of additions to property, plant, equipment and software.
2017 2016 Capital expenditure m m Investment Solutions 12.3 9.6 Intelligent Solutions 6.8 4.8 Pension Solutions 8.3 4.1 Total segments 27.4 18.5 Central 5.1 12.2 Total 32.5 30.7 153 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 3.4 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year was as follows: 2017 2016 Number of employees by function: Number Number Operations 4,036 3,839 Support functions 429 386 Sales and marketing 113 110 Total employees 4,578 4,335 2017 2016 Number of employees by operating segment: Number Number Investment Solutions 1,150 1,244 Intelligent Solutions 631 515 Pensions Solutions 1,553 1,651 Central 1,244 925 Total employees 4,578 4,335 2017 2016 Number of employees by geography: Number Number United Kingdom 3754 3,752 Rest of Europe 50 4 Asia 774 579 Total employees 4,578 4,335 The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 2017 2016 m m Wages and salaries 147.5 139.7 Social security costs 16.0 13.6 Other pension costs 7.6 8.2 Share-based payment expense 3.5 1.7 Total employee benefit expense 174.6 163.2 154 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 4 INVESTMENTS 4.1 ACQUISITIONS OF BUSINESSES Gateway2Finance On 6 January 2017, the Group purchased the entire issued share capital of Gateway 2 Finance Limited and Refresh Personal Finance Ltd Gateway2Finance for 0.2m plus contingent consideration of up to 1.0m, discounted to 0.9m, payable in 2020.
Gateway2Finance is an FCA authorised entity acting as a consumer finance intermediary, securing loans for clients referred by financial services companies and price comparison websites.
The Group took control of Gateway2Finance on 6 January 2017.
On this date the business had net assets of 0.2m.
The results of the business have been consolidated since the date of control and Gateway2Finance contributed 0.4m of revenue and a 0.2m net loss to the Group results in 2017.
On acquisition, intangible assets relating to customer contracts and related relationships were re-evaluated, resulting in a combined upward adjustment of 0.3m to the book value.
The amounts relating to the intangible assets and goodwill are provisional and subject to further evaluation and adjustment, in accordance with accounting standards.
The value of goodwill reflects amounts in relation to the expected benefit of the ability to generate new streams of revenue and the expected synergies of combining the operations of Gateway2Finance and the Group.
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed m Customer intangibles 0.3 Deferred income tax liabilities 0.1 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 0.2 Goodwill on acquisition 0.9 Total consideration 1.1 Deferred consideration 0.1 Contingent consideration 0.9 Net cash outflow in the period 0.1 As at 31 December 2017, the minimum amount of contingent consideration payable was nil and the maximum amount was 1.0m.
The final amount to be paid will be determined based on the acquirees financial performance over the qualifying period and is only payable if the business grows in line with its business plan.
Nostrum On 3 July 2017, the Group purchased the entire issued share capital of The Nostrum Group Limited Nostrum for 12.5m.
Nostrum is a provider of end-to-end loan management technology that assists banks, finance companies and retail brands to provide credit solutions to their customers, delivering services that support the whole lifecycle of lenders operations from front-end lead generation and application processing through to customer servicing.
The purchase consideration of 12.5m consists of up to 7.0m contingent consideration, discounted to 2.0m payable in September 2018 and 4.5m payable in September 2020, cash on legal completion of 3.9m and 2.1m payable in monthly instalments to December 2018.
The Group took control of Nostrum on 26 May 2017.
On this date the business had provisional net assets of 2.4m, including a cash balance of 0.8m.
The results of the business have been consolidated since the date of control and Nostrum contributed 5.7m of revenue and a 2.3m net profit to the Group results in 2017.
If the business had been acquired on 1 January 2017, it would have contributed an additional 2.8m of revenue and a 0.3m net loss to the Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2017.
155 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 4.1 ACQUISITIONS OF BUSINESSES CONTINUED On acquisition, intangible assets relating to software and to customer contracts and related relationships were re-evaluated, resulting in a combined upward adjustment of 3.8m to the book value.
The value of goodwill reflects amounts in relation to the expected benefit of the ability to generate new streams of revenue and the expected synergies of combining the operations of Nostrum and the Group.
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed m Software 2.1 Customer intangibles 2.6 Trade and other receivables 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 Trade and other payables 3.8 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 0.1 Deferred income tax liabilities 0.6 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 2.4 Goodwill on acquisition 10.1 Total consideration 12.5 Cash acquired 0.8 Accrued consideration 2.1 Contingent consideration 6.5 Net cash outflow in the period 3.1 As at 31 December 2017, the minimum amount of contingent consideration payable was nil and the maximum amount was 7.0m.
Costs of acquiring the above businesses amounted to 0.2m in the year.
156 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 4.2 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Leasehold Freehold Office Fixtures & improvements improvements equipment fittings Total m m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2016 7.2 - 24.1 4.9 36.2 Acquisition of business 0.8 - 0.3 0.1 1.2 Additions 2.7 - 6.7 0.3 9.7 Disposals - - 1.9 0.1 2.0 Translation adjustment 0.1 - 0.2 - 0.3 Balance at 31 December 2016 10.8 - 29.4 5.2 45.4 Balance at 1 January 2017 10.8 - 29.4 5.2 45.4 Additions 1.1 - 5.4 0.1 6.6 Disposals 0.8 - 1.0 0.7 2.5 Reclassification 0.8 0.8 - - - Balance at 31 December 2017 10.3 0.8 33.8 4.6 49.5 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2016 4.7 - 17.0 3.1 24.8 Depreciation charge for the year 0.8 - 3.7 0.9 5.4 Disposals - - 1.9 0.1 2.0 Translation adjustment - - 0.1 - 0.1 Balance at 31 December 2016 5.5 - 18.9 3.9 28.3 Balance at 1 January 2017 5.5 - 18.9 3.9 28.3 Depreciation charge for the year 1.1 - 4.0 0.6 5.7 Disposals 0.8 - 1.0 0.7 2.5 Balance at 31 December 2017 5.8 - 21.9 3.8 31.5 Net book value Balance at 31 December 2016 5.3 - 10.5 1.3 17.1 Balance at 31 December 2017 4.5 0.8 11.9 0.8 18.0 Included within office equipment are assets held under finance leases with a cost of 2.6m as of 31 December 2017 2016: 2.2m.
These assets had a net book value as at 31 December 2017 of 1.6m 2016: 1.9m.
At the start of the year, freehold improvements relating to an acquisition in the prior year were reclassified from leasehold improvements.
157 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 4.3 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquisitionrelated Software intangible Goodwill development assets Total m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2016 407.6 193.3 311.3 912.2 Acquisition of business 33.6 5.0 12.7 51.3 Additions - 21.0 - 21.0 Disposals - - 0.8 0.8 Translation adjustment 1.9 0.3 0.5 2.7 Balance at 31 December 2016 443.1 219.6 323.7 986.4 Balance at 1 January 2017 443.1 219.6 323.7 986.4 Acquisition of business 11.0 2.1 2.9 16.0 Additions - 25.9 - 25.9 Translation adjustment 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 Balance at 31 December 2017 453.8 247.8 326.8 1,028.4 Accumulated amortisation Balance at 1 January 2016 - 139.1 135.9 275.0 Amortisation for the year - 16.0 25.3 41.3 Balance at 31 December 2016 - 155.1 161.2 316.3 Balance at 1 January 2017 - 155.1 161.2 316.3 Amortisation for the year - 18.3 26.7 45.0 Translation adjustment - - 0.1 0.1 Balance at 31 December 2017 - 173.4 188.0 361.4 Net book value Balance at 31 December 2016 443.1 64.5 162.5 670.1 Balance at 31 December 2017 453.8 74.4 138.8 667.0 Software development predominately relates to investment in the functionality of the Groups main operating platforms.
Acquisition-related intangible assets consist primarily of customer lists arising from business combinations.
Goodwill is the only intangible asset with an indefinite life.
158 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 4.3 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Goodwill Goodwill arose initially on the acquisition of the Lloyds TSB Registrars business and subsequently through equity and trade and asset acquisitions.
For goodwill on current year acquisitions see note 4.1.
Goodwill is monitored by management in line with the Groups operating segments: Investment Solutions, Intelligent Solutions, Pensions Solutions and Interest.
Opening Translation Closing balance Acquisitions Disposals adjustment balance Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m Investment Solutions 289.4 - - - 289.4 Intelligent Solutions 66.5 11.0 - 0.3 77.2 Pensions Solutions 87.2 - - - 87.2 Total goodwill 443.1 11.0 - 0.3 453.8 Opening Translation Closing balance Acquisitions Disposals adjustment balance Year ended 31 December 2016 m m m m m Investment Solutions 288.9 0.5 - - 289.4 Intelligent Solutions 31.5 33.1 - 1.9 66.5 Pensions Solutions 87.2 - - - 87.2 Total goodwill 407.6 33.6 - 1.9 443.1 Impairment testing Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
The recoverable amount of cash-generating units CGUs for the above periods has been determined in accordance with IAS 36 Intangible Assets.
This is determined by assessing the present value of net cash flows generated by the business over the period for which management expects to benefit from the acquired business.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are those regarding discount rates and revenue growth rates.
The Group derives cash flows from its most recent business plans over a three-year period.
The projected cash flows are discounted using a weighted average cost of capital, reflecting current market assessments on debt equity ratios of similar businesses and risks specific to the CGUs.
The outcome of the impairment assessment has been that the Directors do not consider that the goodwill has been impaired, given that the value in use is greater than the carrying value of goodwill.
2017 2016 Period on which management approved forecasts are based 3 years 3 years Revenue growth rate applied beyond approved forecast period 2.4% 2.4% Discount rate pre-tax 10.2% 10.2% The revenue growth rate applied beyond the approved forecast period is in line with underlying UK macro-economic forecasts.
Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis was carried out using a 1% increase in the pre-tax discount rate and a 1% reduction in the growth rate.
In the opinion of the Directors, there are no reasonably possible changes to these key assumptions which would cause the carrying value of any CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
159 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 4.4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES The Directors consider the value of the investments to be supported by their underlying assets.
The Group has the following investments in subsidiaries: Ownership % on 31 December Name of controlled entity Registered office address Principal activities 2017 Direct Investments Equiniti Holdings Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Holding company 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Indirect Investments Charter.
Net Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Non trading 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Charter Systems Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Software service provider 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Charter UK Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Software service provider 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Circle of Insight Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Non trading 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Claybrook Computing Limited Sutherland House, Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, Computer software consultancy 100 RH10 1UH, United Kingdom Connaught Secretaries Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Dormant 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Custodian Nominees Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Holding company 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom David Venus & Company LLP 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Dormant 50 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom David Venus Health & Safety Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Dormant 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti 360 Clinical Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Business process outsourcing 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Non trading 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti David Venus Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Company secretarial 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti Employee Services PTY Limited 102B Newlands Plaza, CNR Lois & Dely, Newlands, Computer software development 100 00181, South Africa Equiniti Finance Holdings Ltd 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Holding company 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti Financial Services Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Financial services 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Equiniti Gateway Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Technology enabled services 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti India Private Limited DLF IT Park, 1 124, Mt Poonamalle High Road, Technology enabled services 100 Ramapuram, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600 089, India Equiniti ICS Limited 205 Airport Road West, Belfast, Business process outsourcing 100 BT3 9ED, United Kingdom Equiniti Ireland Finance Ltd 52-55 Sir John Rogersons Quay, Dublin 2, D02 NA07, Non trading 100 Republic of Ireland Equiniti ISA Nominees Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Non trading 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti Jersey Limited 26 New Street, St Helier, JE2 3RA, Registrars 100 Jersey Equiniti KYC Solutions B. V. Donker Curtiusstraat 7, Unit 117-118, 1051 JL Software service provider 100 Amsterdam, The Netherlands 160 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 4.4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED Ownership % on 31 December Name of controlled entity Registered office address Principal activities 2017 Equiniti KYC Systems B. V. Donker Curtiusstraat 7, Unit 117-118, 1051 JL Software service provider 100 Amsterdam, The Netherlands Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Registrars 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Equiniti Nominees Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Non trading 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti Registrars Nominees Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Non trading 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti Savings Nominees Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Non trading 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti Services Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Holding company 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Trustee company 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Equiniti Shareview Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Non trading 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti Solutions Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Pensions administration 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti Trust Company 25th Floor, 90 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016, Limited purpose trust company 100 United States Equiniti UK Finance Ltd 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Non trading 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Equiniti US Holdings Limited 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, County Holding company 100 of New Castle 19801, United States Equiniti US LLC 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, County Non trading 100 of New Castle 19801, United States Equiniti US Services LLC 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, County Non trading 100 of New Castle 19801, United States Information Software Solutions Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Holding company 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom icenet Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Dormant 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Invigia International Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Dormant 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Invigia Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Software service provider 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom KYCnet BV Donker Curtiusstraat 7, Unit 117-118, 1051 JL Amsterdam, Holding company 100 The Netherlands L R Nominees Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Non trading 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Marketing Source Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Software service provider 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom MyCSP Limited Park Square, Bird Hall Lane, Stockport, SK3 0XN, Pensions administration 51 United Kingdom MyCSP Trustee Company Limited Park Square, Bird Hall Lane, Stockport, SK3 0XN, Non trading 51 United Kingdom MyCustomerfeedback.
com Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Software service provider 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Pancredit Systems Ltd 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Business process outsourcing 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Paymaster 1836 Limited Sutherland House, Russell Way, Crawley, West Sussex, Pensions administration 100 RH10 1UH, United Kingdom 161 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 4.4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED Ownership % on 31 December Name of controlled entity Registered office address Principal activities 2017 Peter Evans & Associates Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Business process outsourcing 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Prism Communications & Management 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Company secretarial 100 Limited KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Prism Cosec Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Non trading 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Prosearch Asset Solutions Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Asset recovery 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Refresh Personal Finance Ltd 2.11 Holmfield Mill, Holdsworth Road, Halifax, West Software service provider 100 Yorkshire, HX3 6SN, United Kingdom Riskfactor Solutions Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Software service provider 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Riskfactor Software Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Software service provider 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom SLC Corporate Services Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Dormant 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom SLC Registrars Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Dormant 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom The Nostrum Group Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Software service provider 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Toplevel Computing Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Software service provider 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Toplevel Development Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Dormant 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Toplevel Holdings Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Holding company 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Toplevel Software Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Dormant 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom TransGlobal Payment Solutions Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, International payment services 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Trust Research Services Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Non trading 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom Wealth Nominees Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Dormant 100 BN99 6DA, United Kingdom Yes Offers Limited 42-50 Hersham Road, Walton-On-Thames, Surrey, Software service provider 100 KT12 1RZ, United Kingdom All the above investments are held in the Ordinary share capital of the company.
162 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 4.4 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED Audit exemption guarantee The following subsidiaries will take advantage of the exemption from audit of their individual financial statements, under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, for the year ended 31 December 2017: Charter Systems Limited Pancredit Systems Ltd Charter UK Limited Peter Evans & Associates Limited Claybrook Computing Limited Prism Communications & Management Limited Equiniti 360 Clinical Limited Prosearch Asset Solutions Limited Equiniti David Venus Limited Refresh Personal Finance Limited Equiniti Holdings Limited Riskfactor Software Limited Equiniti ICS Limited Riskfactor Solutions Limited Equiniti Services Limited Toplevel Computing Limited Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited Toplevel Development Limited Equiniti Solutions Limited Toplevel Holdings Limited Information Software Solutions Limited TransGlobal Payment Solutions Limited Invigia Limited Yes Offers Limited Mycustomerfeedback.
com Limited As a condition of the above exemption, the Group has guaranteed the year end liabilities of the relevant subsidiaries until they are settled in full.
The liabilities of the subsidiaries at the year end date were 321.1m 2016: 379.5m.
163 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 5 WORKING CAPITAL 5.1 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2017 2016 m m Trade receivables 28.7 28.7 Accrued income 32.7 27.9 Other receivables 10.0 9.4 Prepayments 8.9 9.4 Total trade and other receivables 80.3 75.4 Excluding trade receivables, none of these financial assets are either past due or impaired.
At the year end, trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for doubtful debts of 0.4m 2016: 0.2m.
The impairment loss recognised in the year was 0.3m 2016: 0.1m.
Credit risk The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 2017 2016 m m Not past due 16.7 17.9 Past due 0-30 days 7.5 7.1 Past due 31-90 days 3.0 3.7 Past due more than 90 days 1.5 - Total trade receivables 28.7 28.7 Trade receivables not past due of 16.7m 2016: 17.9m are all existing customers with no defaults in the past.
Based on historic performance of these contracts, the Group has made an impairment allowance of 0.4m 2016: 0.2m in respect of trade receivables.
Where impairment allowances are made, these are for the full value of the impaired debt.
Movement in the year in the Group's provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Balance at 1 January 0.2 0.3 New provisions made in year 0.3 0.1 Release against receivables written off 0.1 0.2 Balance at 31 December 0.4 0.2 Trade receivables past due but not impaired of 12.0m 2016: 10.8m relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
164 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 5.2 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2017 2016 m m Trade payables 20.2 18.4 Accruals 44.2 40.6 Deferred consideration 5.4 22.5 Deferred income 15.2 13.4 Other payables 11.0 10.5 Total trade and other payables 96.0 105.4 5.3 PROVISIONS FOR OTHER LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Contingent Property consideration provisions Total provisions m m m Balance at 1 January 2017 14.6 1.6 16.2 Provisions made during the year 7.4 0.1 7.5 Provisions used during the year - 0.1 0.1 Provisions reversed during the year 1.5 0.1 1.6 Unwinding of discounted amount 0.7 - 0.7 Balance at 31 December 2017 21.2 1.5 22.7 Non-current 17.4 1.4 18.8 Current 3.8 0.1 3.9 Total provisions 21.2 1.5 22.7 Contingent consideration A provision for contingent consideration as at 31 December 2017 of 21.2m 2016: 14.6m relates to various requirements to be met following the Groups acquisitions.
This is recognised at fair value through profit or loss and this is derived from managements best estimate of the amounts likely to be paid.
The minimum value of these provisions could be nil up to a maximum of 28.5m.
These were discounted at an appropriate post-tax discount rate at the time of the acquisitions and are provided within provisions due to their uncertainty.
Management regularly reconsiders the appropriateness of the discount rate used and updates when appropriate.
The remaining balance is expected to be utilised over periods between 2018 and 2021.
Property provisions Property provisions included a provision of 0.1m for onerous leases for unused property space on operating lease as at 1 January 2017 which was fully utilised during the year.
The balance as at 31 December 2017 was nil.
Also included in property provisions is a provision in respect of dilapidations as at 31 December 2017 of 1.5m 2016: 1.5m.
165 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6 CAPITAL STRUCTURE 6.1 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS 2017 2016 Finance income m m Interest income 0.4 0.2 Net foreign exchange gains from forward contracts 0.4 - Total finance income 0.8 0.2 2017 2016 Finance costs m m Interest cost on senior secured borrowings 5.8 6.3 Interest cost on revolving credit facility 1.7 2.2 Amortised fees 1.6 1.2 Net finance cost relating to pension schemes 0.6 0.6 Unwinding of discounted amount in provisions 0.7 0.7 Cost of interest rate swap against financial liabilities 1.8 1.4 Foreign exchange loss 0.1 - Other fees and interest 0.2 - Total finance costs 12.5 12.4 6.2 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM Share capital Share premium 2017 2016 2017 2016 Allotted, called up and fully paid m m m m Balance at 1 January 0.3 0.3 - - Employee share options exercised - - 0.1 - Rights issue 0.1 - 115.7 - Balance at 31 December 0.4 0.3 115.8 - 2017 2016 Ordinary shares of 0.001 each thousands Number Number Balance at 1 January 300,013 300,000 Employee share options exercised 112 13 Rights issue 64,309 - Balance at 31 December 364,434 300,013 The Group issued 112,000 ordinary shares on exercise of employee share options during the year 2016: 13,000.
The shares were issued at a weighted average exercise price of 1.26 per share.
In October 2017, the Group offered a rights issue to existing shareholders on the basis of 3 shares for every 14 fully paid ordinary shares held.
The issue was fully subscribed and resulted in the issue of 64,309,234 ordinary shares at 1.90 per share.
Gross proceeds of 122.2m were received.
The share premium account increased by 115.7m as a result, which was net of direct transaction costs of 6.5m.
166 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6.3 OTHER RESERVES Capital contribution reserve The capital contribution reserve arose on the Initial Public Offering in 2015, when the Group issued equity instruments to settle non-current financial liabilities with shareholders.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts that have not yet occurred.
Share-based payments reserve The share-based payments reserve represents the amounts recognised in equity in respect of the equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
See note 7.2 for further details.
Translation reserve The translation reserve represents the foreign exchange movements arising from the translation of financial statements in foreign currencies.
6.4 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST The Group has a 51% interest in MyCSP Limited.
The summarised financial information for MyCSP Limited, set out below, is prior to intercompany eliminations.
2017 2016 Summarised statement of financial position m m Non-current assets 1.4 2.6 Current assets 33.9 31.4 Non-current liabilities 1.4 1.9 Current liabilities 12.1 11.8 Net assets 21.8 20.3 2017 2016 Summarised statement of comprehensive income m m Revenue 40.6 43.0 Profit for the year 6.0 4.1 Other comprehensive income loss 0.2 1.4 Total comprehensive income 6.2 2.7 Transactions with non-controlling interests 25% of MyCSP Limited is owned by the employees of MyCSP via an employee benefit trust and shares rank pari passu with the remaining share capital, including receiving annual dividends when declared.
In the current and prior year, dividends have been waived by the trust in lieu of a bonus payment through payroll.
This is reflected within transactions with non-controlling interests in the statement of comprehensive income.
167 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6.5 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
2017 2016 m m Profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 11.9 30.5 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue thousands 331,653 320,391 Employee share options thousands 1,487 1,063 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted for the effect of dilution thousands 333,140 321,454 Basic earnings per share pence 3.6 9.5 Diluted earnings per share pence 3.6 9.5 1 The weighted average number of ordinary shares has been restated to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue associated with the WFSS acquisition see note 9.6.
6.6 DIVIDENDS 2017 2016 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders of the parent in the year m m 1 Interim dividend for year ended 31 December 2017 1.64p per share 5.3 - 1 Final dividend for year ended 31 December 2016 2.91p per share 9.3 - 1 Interim dividend for year ended 31 December 2016 1.54p per share - 5.0 1 Final dividend for year ended 31 December 2015 0.64p per share - 2.0 14.6 7.0 1 The prior years dividends per share have been restated to reflect the bonus element of the rights issue associated with the WFSS acquisition see note 9.6.
The recommended final dividend payable in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 is 9.9m or 2.73p per share 2016: 9.3m.
The proposed dividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2017. m Proposed final dividend for year ended 31 December 2017 9.9 168 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6.7 EXTERNAL LOANS AND BORROWINGS 2017 2016 Non-current liabilities m m Term loan 250.0 250.0 Revolving credit facility RCF - 56.0 Unamortised cost of raising finance 6.0 4.5 Total external loans and borrowings 244.0 301.5 Closing Year of Terms and debt repayment schedule Currency interest rate maturity Term loan Sterling Libor 1.75% 2020 Revolving credit facility Sterling Libor 1.75% 2020 The Group's debt facility, which matures in full in 2020, contains one financial covenant only, namely a maximum ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the loan agreement which is tested half yearly and at the year end.
Net Debt to EBITDA must be no more than 4.50:1 for the years to 31 December 2017 and 4.00:1 thereafter.
The Group was in compliance with this covenant at the year end.
The margin payable on both the term loan and RCF is determined based on the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA, where the margin payable ranges from a maximum of 2.25% to a minimum of 1.25%.
In December 2015, the Group entered into an interest rate swap agreement for a three-year period, to exchange variable rate interest expense for fixed rate on the 250.0m term loan.
No debt is repayable before the end of our current funding agreement in 2020.
On announcement of the proposed WFSS acquisition see note 9.6 for details, the Group entered into an agreement with existing and new banks to increase existing loan facilities by 120.0m, comprising of a $92.0m 71.0m term loan and 49.0m of revolving credit facilities.
The increased facilities became effective on the completion of the WFSS acquisition in February 2018 and have the same maturity as the existing facilities, October 2020.
6.8 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES The movements during the year in financial liabilities relating to financing activities and a reconciliation to net debt are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Term loan 250.0 250.0 Revolving credit facility - 56.0 Finance lease liabilities 1.7 1.9 Cash and cash equivalents 115.2 56.7 Net debt 136.5 251.2 Liabilities from financing activities Other assets Revolving Finance lease Cash and cash Term loan credit facility liabilities equivalents Total m m m m m Net debt at 1 January 2017 250.0 56.0 1.9 56.7 251.2 New finance leases acquired - - 0.4 - 0.4 Interest on finance lease liabilities - - 0.1 - 0.1 Cash flows - 56.0 0.7 58.5 115.2 Net debt at 31 December 2017 250.0 - 1.7 115.2 136.5 169 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6.9 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents per statement of financial position 115.2 56.7 Cash and cash equivalents per statement of cash flows 115.2 56.7 In addition to the above, the Group holds certain cash balances with banks in a number of segregated accounts.
These balances represent client money under management and hence are not included in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
The number of accounts and balances held vary significantly throughout the year.
The Group has the ability to sell certain trade receivables in a debt factoring arrangement on a non-recourse basis.
The Group has access to a 20.0m arrangement of which 19.9m 2016: 4.2m was utilised at the end of the year and included within the cash balances above.
Invoices factored are all covered by trade credit insurance.
The trade receivables shown in note 5.1 are reflected net of cash received at the year end.
6.10 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk liquidity risk market risk Risk management policies are established for the Group and the Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with these policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty, including brokers, to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers.
Due to the nature of the business, the majority of the trade receivables are with large institutions, including many FTSE 350 companies and public sector organisations.
Losses have only occurred infrequently in previous years and have never been material.
Credit risk mitigation Trade and other receivables are due from primarily FTSE listed companies, their pension funds and major UK public bodies, all of which have few occurrences of defaults in the past.
For cash, cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments, only banks and financial institutions with credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies are accepted, with 100% of cash balances at the year end being held in banks and financial institutions with a short-term credit rating of A or higher.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that the Group will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions.
The maximum exposure to liquidity risk at the reporting dates was as follows: Total Carrying contractual Within 1-2 2-5 Amount cash flows 1 year years years 31 December 2017 Note m m m m m Derivatives used for hedging 9.2 9.2 9.3 7.5 1.0 0.8 Trade and other payables 5.2 96.0 96.0 96.0 - - Other financial liabilities 9.2 1.7 1.9 0.7 0.5 0.7 Term loan 6.7 250.0 267.4 5.8 5.8 255.8 Total 356.9 374.6 110.0 7.3 257.3 170 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6.10 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Total Carrying contractual Within 1-2 2-5 Amount cash flows 1 year years years 31 December 2016 Note m m m m m Derivatives used for hedging 9.2 3.1 3.1 1.7 1.4 Trade and other payables 5.2 105.4 105.4 105.4 - - Other financial liabilities 9.2 1.9 2.1 0.6 0.6 0.9 Term loan 6.7 250.0 273.2 5.8 5.8 261.6 Revolving credit facility 6.7 56.0 56.0 - - 56.0 Total 416.4 439.8 113.5 7.8 318.5 All trade and other payables are expected to be paid in six months or less.
Liquidity risk mitigation The Group regularly updates forecasts for cash flow and covenants, to ensure it has sufficient funding available.
It maintains significant cash balances to meet future cash funding requirements and had 115.2m of cash at 31 December 2017.
The Group also has revolving credit facilities of 150.0m available, all of which were undrawn at 31 December 2017.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
a Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates in both its intermediary fee revenue and its net finance costs.
Intermediary fee revenue consists of fee income in relation to client and shareholder deposits and is mostly linked to the Bank of England base rate.
Net finance costs include interest costs on the term loan and the RCF, and interest income on its own deposits of which rates are linked to Libor.
A movement in interest rates which negatively affects net finance costs would have a positive effect on revenue, and vice versa.
Interest rate risk mitigation Exposure to interest rate fluctuations is partly managed through the use of interest rate swaps.
Interest rate swaps, which are designated as hedges under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, are agreed by the Board and have the objective of reducing the impact of variations in interest rates on the Groups profit and cash flow.
The Group does not enter into speculative transactions in financial instruments or derivatives.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
Interest rate risk on intermediary fee revenue is managed across the Groups companies by monitoring its interest linked revenues, which are derived based on the Bank of England base rate.
The Group has entered into interest rate swaps totalling 650.0m for a three-year period to July and August 2018 and a further 380.0m for a three-year period to July 2020, swapping the variable rate derived interest rate income to fixed rates.
The 250.0m term loan accrues interest based on a margin over Libor.
The Group has entered into an interest rate swap exchanging variable based interest charges for fixed rate for a period of three years.
This fixes our interest costs at c3% until October 2018.
The Group has not entered into a hedge of its outstanding RCF commitments.
The Directors monitor the overall level of borrowings, leverage ratio and interest costs to limit any adverse effects on financial performance of the Group.
Sensitivity analysis In managing interest rate risks, the Company and Group aim to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Company and Groups earnings.
Over the longer-term, however, permanent changes in interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
An increase of one percentage point in interest rates effective from the start of 2017 would have increased finance costs for the Group by 1.6m, payable on the RCF, and increased interest revenue by 4.2m, yielding a net increase in equity after tax of 2.1m.
This includes the impact of interest rate swaps, which reduce the fluctuations resulting from interest rate movements.
Had no hedging been in place for this example of a one percentage point increase in interest rates, the net increase to profit after tax would be 6.9m.
171 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6.10 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED b Foreign exchange rate risk The Groups main foreign currency denominated exposure arises from the costs incurred in operating its service centre in Chennai and therefore the Group is exposed to adverse movements in the GBP INR exchange rate.
The Group has implemented a hedging policy to reduce the risks associated with adverse movements in this exchange rate by entering into a series of forward contracts based on expected cash flows to purchase Indian Rupee.
These forward contracts are designated as hedges under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
c Equity price risk The Group does not hold its own position in trading securities and is involved only in arranging transactions on behalf of its clients.
6.11 CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is focused on delivering value for its shareholders whilst ensuring it is able to continue effectively as a going concern.
Value adding opportunities to grow the business are continually assessed, although strict and careful criteria are applied.
Total capital comprises total equity plus net debt, as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Net debt equates to the total of external interest bearing loans plus other finance lease liabilities, less cash and cash equivalents, as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The policies for managing capital are to increase shareholder value by maximising profits and cash.
The policy is to set budgets and forecasts in the short and medium term that the Group ensures are achievable.
The process for managing capital is regular reviews of financial data, to ensure that the Group is tracking the targets set and to reforecast as necessary, based on the most up to date information whilst checking that future covenant test points are met.
The Group may also consider repayment of debt, issuance of new and repurchase of existing shares and adjusting dividend payments to shareholders, to maintain an optimum capital structure.
The Board regularly reviews the Groups capital structure and no changes have been made to these objectives and processes since the Group listed in October 2015.
The Board considers it has sufficient funds to pay dividends in line with the stated policies for the foreseeable future.
Under the terms of the current loan agreement signed in October 2015, the Group has one covenant, a maximum ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA.
Regulated entities The Group has one significant Financial Conduct Authority FCA regulated entity, Equiniti Financial Services Limited EFSL, which must maintain minimum levels of capital in order to manage its affairs.
It must ensure that it can meet its regulatory capital requirements and has sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, including under potentially highly stressed conditions.
EFSL has its own governance structure and holds monthly Board meetings and quarterly Risk and Audit Committee meetings, to ensure its regulatory objectives are met.
Management of capital 2017 2016 Note m m Equity 510.6 402.2 Term loan 6.7 250.0 250.0 Revolving credit facility 6.7 - 56.0 Finance lease liabilities 9.2 1.7 1.9 Cash and cash equivalents 6.9 115.2 56.7 647.1 653.4 Total equity plus net debt 172 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6.12 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities are classified as per IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures according to the following categories: 2017 2016 Financial assets Note m m Derivatives used for hedging Derivative financial instruments 6.13 1.9 8.0 Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 5.1 71.4 66.0 Cash and cash equivalents 6.9 115.2 56.7 Total financial assets 188.5 130.7 2017 2016 Financial liabilities Note m m Derivatives used for hedging Derivative financial instruments 6.13 9.2 3.1 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables 5.2 96.0 105.4 Other financial liabilities 9.2 1.7 1.9 Secured bank loans 6.7 250.0 250.0 Revolving credit facility 6.7 - 56.0 Total financial liabilities 356.9 416.4 Fair value hierarchy The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets m m m m Derivatives used for hedging: Interest rate swaps - 1.9 - 1.9 Total assets - 1.9 - 1.9 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Liabilities m m m m Derivatives used for hedging: Interest rate swaps - 3.4 - 3.4 Deal contingency forward - 5.8 - 5.8 Total liabilities - 9.2 - 9.2 There were no transfers between levels during the year.
173 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6.12 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Valuation techniques used to derive level 2 fair values Level 2 hedging derivatives comprise interest rate swaps, deal contingency forwards and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The interest rate swaps are fair valued using forward interest rates extracted from observable yield curves and the deal contingency forwards and forward foreign exchange contracts are fair valued using the future contracted exchange rates.
The effects of discounting are generally insignificant for level 2 derivatives.
The Groups policy is to recognise transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels as of the date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer.
The valuation technique used is a discounted cash flow model.
There were no changes in valuation techniques during the year.
Groups valuation processes The Groups finance department includes a team that monitors and obtains the valuations of financial assets and liabilities required for financial reporting purposes.
This team ultimately reports to the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
Valuations are reviewed at least once every six months, in line with the Groups reporting dates.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities There are no material differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities and their fair value.
The only financial instruments measured at fair value are the derivatives.
6.13 DERIVATIVES In October 2015, the Group entered into an interest rate swap of its 250.0m term loan, exchanging variable based interest charges for fixed rate for a period of three years.
This fixes costs at c3% until October 2018.
The Group also entered into interest rate swaps totalling 650.0m for a three-year period to July and August 2018, swapping the variable rate derived interest rate income to fixed rates.
In July 2017, further interest rate swaps were entered into totalling 380.0m for three years to July 2020, swapping the variable rate derived interest rate income to fixed.
The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its exposure to adverse variations in the GBP INR exchange rate.
In July 2017, when the Group announced the WFSS acquisition see note 9.6 for details, the Group entered into a deal contingency forward to fix part of the USD purchase price in GBP.
The hedged amount represents the part of the purchase price not intended to be financed through new debt.
All the above derivatives, which are effective at a Group level, have been designated as cash flow hedges and qualify for hedge accounting.
They are measured at fair value, with changes recognised within other comprehensive income.
The following tables indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur and are expected to impact the profit and loss: Total Carrying contractual Within 6 amount cash flows months 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Assets Interest rate swaps 1.9 1.9 1.6 0.3 - - Total 1.9 1.9 1.6 0.3 - - Liabilities Interest rate swaps 3.4 3.5 0.8 0.9 1.0 0.8 Deal contingency forward 5.8 5.8 5.8 - - - Total 9.2 9.3 6.6 0.9 1.0 0.8 174 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6.13 DERIVATIVES CONTINUED Total Carrying contractual Within 6 amount cash flows months 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years 31 December 2016 m m m m m m Assets Interest rate swaps 7.8 7.8 2.4 2.5 2.9 - Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.2 0.2 0.2 - - - Total 8.0 8.0 2.6 2.5 2.9 - Liabilities Interest rate swaps 3.1 3.1 0.8 0.9 1.4 - Total 3.1 3.1 0.8 0.9 1.4 - 7 GOVERNANCE 7.1 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The following costs are either paid by the subsidiary Equiniti Holdings Limited or by Equiniti Services Limited: 2017 2016 m m Directors emoluments 2.5 2.1 Company contributions to money purchase pension plans - 0.1 Share-based payment expense 1.0 0.5 Total directors remuneration 3.5 2.7 The Executive Directors receive a cash payment in lieu of retirement benefits and therefore no benefits were accruing under money purchase pension schemes at the year end.
Full details of the Directors remuneration are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 102-117.
7.2 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group operates several share-based award and option plans, the terms of which are summarised below, along with the movements in the number of share options during the year.
Performance Share Plan PSP Share options are granted to Executive Directors and selected employees at nil cost.
Share options granted under the PSP scheme are conditional on a minimum 6% earnings per share growth and median total shareholder return over a three-year vesting period.
Granted options can be exercised over a period of up to ten years.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices were as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted Number of average exercise Number of average exercise options price options price Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 8,237 0.00 6,158 0.00 Granted 2,954 0.00 2,432 0.00 Forfeited 718 0.00 353 0.00 Outstanding at 31 December 10,473 0.00 8,237 0.00 175 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 7.2 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Out of the 10,473,000 2016: 8,237,000 outstanding options at the end of the year, none 2016: none were exercisable.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year had the following expiry dates and exercise prices: 2017 2016 Expiry date Exercise price Number Number Grant date Vest date Year Thousands Thousands 2015 - 2018 2025 0.00 5,646 5,899 2016 - 2019 2026 0.00 2,123 2,338 2017 - 2018 2027 0.00 389 - 2017 - 2019 2027 0.00 147 - 2017 - 2020 2027 0.00 2,168 - 10,473 8,237 The fair value of options granted during the year, which was determined using the Monte Carlo valuation model, was 1.39 per option.
The significant inputs into the model were the share price of 1.94 at the grant date, the exercise price shown above, volatility of 35% based on the historical share price volatility of Equiniti Group plc since listing in October 2015, a dividend yield of 2.4%, an expected option life of three years and an annual risk-free interest rate of 0.2%.
In the year 679,000 options were granted to existing option holders at the time of the rights issue, to make option holders whole following the dilution of the ex-rights share price.
The total charge for the year relating to this scheme was 3.1m 2016: 1.3m.
Sharesave Plan Share options are granted to full time Directors and employees who enter into Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC approved share savings scheme.
Participants can save a maximum of 500 per month over three to five years.
The number of shares over which an option is granted is such that the total option price payable for those shares corresponds to the proceeds on maturity of the related savings contract.
The exercise price is calculated as 80% of the average share price over the three preceding days or, in relation to new issue shares, the nominal value of a share.
Granted options vest over the maturity of the savings contract and can be exercised over a period of up to six months after vesting.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices were as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted Number of average exercise Number of average exercise options price options price Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January 3,913 1.27 4,595 1.27 Granted 228 1.19 - - Forfeited 522 1.26 669 1.27 Exercised 112 1.26 13 1.27 Outstanding at 31 December 3,507 1.19 3,913 1.27 In September 2017, the exercise price of all outstanding options was reduced to take account of the dilution of the ex-rights share price following the Groups rights issue.
This resulted in an additional 228,000 options being granted.
176 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 7.2 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Out of the 3,507,000 2016: 3,913,000 outstanding options at the end of the year, 61,000 2016: 173,000 were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of 1.19.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year had the following expiry dates and exercise prices: 2017 2016 Expiry date Exercise price Number Number Grant date Vest date Year Thousands Thousands 2015 - 2018 2019 1.19 3,224 3,740 2015 - 2017 2017 1.27 - 173 2015 - 2018 2018 1.19 61 - 2017 - 2018 2019 1.19 222 - 3,507 3,913 The total charge for the year relating to this scheme was 0.4m 2016: 0.4m.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 30% of annual bonus paid to Group directors and selected employees is compulsorily deferred into an award over shares which vests over a three year period.
The number of options granted is calculated using the market value on grant date.
Options, once vested, can be exercised up to 10 years after the grant date.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices were as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted Number of average exercise Number of average exercise options price options price Thousands Thousands Outstanding at 1 January - - - - Granted 144 1.94 - - Forfeited 1 1.94 - - Outstanding at 31 December 143 1.94 - - Out of the 143,000 2016: nil outstanding options at the end of the year, none 2016: none were exercisable.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year had the following expiry dates and exercise prices: 2017 2016 Expiry date Exercise price Number Number Grant date Vest date Year Thousands Thousands 2017 - 2020 2027 1.94 143 - 143 - The fair value of options granted during the year, which was determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, was 0.37 per option.
The significant inputs into the model were the share price of 1.94 at the grant date, the exercise price shown above, volatility of 35% based on the historical share price volatility of Equiniti Group plc since first listing in October 2015, a dividend yield of 2.4%, an expected option life of three years and an annual risk-free interest rate of 0.2%.
The total charge for the year relating to this scheme was nil 2016: nil.
177 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 7.3 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions with key management personnel The compensation of key management personnel including the Directors is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Key management emoluments 4.5 3.1 Company contributions to money purchase pension plans 0.1 0.1 Share-based payment expense 1.7 0.7 Total 6.3 3.9 Key management are the Directors of the Group and the Executive Committee, who have authority and responsibility to control, direct or plan the major activities within the Group.
As part of the IPO process in October 2015, shares were issued to certain employees of the Group as a result of an incentive agreement with the then controlling shareholder, Advent.
The shares were treated as an income tax event for the receiving individuals and are subject to lock up arrangements, as disclosed in the prospectus.
As a consequence, the Group lent those individuals who received the shares monies to cover their income tax and National Insurance liabilities.
These loans were all subject to relevant approvals through the IPO process and are treated as a benefit in kind to the receiving individuals.
All benefiting individuals have entered into a loan agreement with the Group.
These loans must be repaid no later than April 2018.
The total value of loans made to key management personnel outstanding at 31 December 2017 was 1.0m 2016: 1.0m.
7.4 AUDITORS REMUNERATION 2017 2016 m m Fees payable to Groups external auditors,  LLP, and its associates were as follows: Audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Audit fees 0.3 0.3 Fees payable to Groups auditors and its associates for non-audit services were as follows: Other assurance services 0.2 0.2 Other services 0.1 0.5 Non-audit fees 0.3 0.7 Total 0.6 1.0 Other assurance services includes 0.2m 2016: 0.2m for services performed in relation to the CASS audit of Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
Other services includes work around the Groups rights issue of 0.1m in the current year and restructuring the Groups pension scheme arrangements 0.5m in the prior year.
These have been included in exceptional costs.
Non-audit fees includes 0.2m 2016: 0.2m for services performed in relation to the CASS audit.
However, in terms of calculating the ratio of audit to non-audit fees, CASS audit fees should be excluded from the calculation.
Therefore the ratio of audit to non-audit fees for 2017 was 1:0.3 2016: 1:1.67.
The Committee is committed to maintaining this ratio to a maximum of 70% of the average statutory audit fee.
178 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 8 TAXATION 8.1 INCOME TAX CHARGE CREDIT 2017 2016 Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year: m m Current tax: Current period 5.7 5.0 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.2 0.3 Total current tax 5.9 4.7 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.0 11.3 Impact of rate changes on opening deferred tax balances 2.3 1.1 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.8 0.6 Total deferred tax 4.1 9.6 Total income tax charge credit 10.0 4.9 2017 2016 Reconciliation of effective tax rate: m m Profit for the year 15.6 33.4 Total tax charge credit 10.0 4.9 Profit before tax 25.6 28.5 Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20% : 4.9 5.7 Non-deductible expenses 2.4 0.8 Non-taxable income - 0.5 Previously unrecognised tax assets 0.2 12.3 Effect of tax rate change 2.1 1.1 Share scheme deductions 0.6 - Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.0 0.3 Total income tax charge credit 10.0 4.9 A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 21% to 20% effective from 1 April 2015 was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
Further reductions to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and to 18% effective 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015, and an additional reduction to 17% effective 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted on 6 September 2016.
This will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2017 have been calculated based on these rates.
Non-deductible expenses in the year ended 31 December 2017 are higher than the prior year, principally due to the tax effect of non-deductible expenses incurred from acquiring WFSS see note 9.6.
179 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 8.2 DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Recognised assets Deferred income tax assets are attributable to the following: 2017 2016 m m Property, plant and equipment 2.8 3.4 Employee benefits and other timing differences 8.2 4.8 Tax value of losses carried forward 38.0 42.6 Tax assets 49.0 50.8 Net of tax liabilities 22.2 21.7 Net tax assets 26.8 29.1 Recognised liabilities Deferred income tax liabilities are attributable to the following: 2017 2016 m m Intangible assets 22.2 21.7 Tax liabilities 22.2 21.7 Net of tax assets 22.2 21.7 Net tax liabilities - - Tax losses carried forward in Equiniti Limited have been valued at 17% 2016: 18%, which is the forecast rate for them to be used.
This change in view primarily arises due to the corporate loss restriction rules in the UK, introduced with effect from 1 April 2017.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 3.8m 2016: 3.8m of tax losses in Equiniti Holdings Limited, due to uncertainty in terms of future recoverability.
Movements in deferred tax during the year: Opening Recognised Recognised Closing balance Acquisitions in income in equity balance Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 3.4 - 0.6 - 2.8 Intangible assets 21.7 0.7 0.2 - 22.2 Employee benefits and other timing differences 4.8 - 0.9 2.5 8.2 Tax value of losses carried forward 42.6 - 4.6 - 38.0 29.1 0.7 4.1 2.5 26.8 Opening Recognised Recognised Closing balance Acquisitions in income in equity balance Year ended 31 December 2016 m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 4.1 - 0.7 - 3.4 Intangible assets 21.7 2.6 2.6 - 21.7 Employee benefits and other timing differences 2.7 - - 2.1 4.8 Tax value of losses carried forward 34.9 - 7.7 - 42.6 20.0 2.6 9.6 2.1 29.1 180 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9 OTHER DISCLOSURES 9.1 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS 2017 2016 Non-current m m Derivatives used for hedging note 6.13 1.9 7.8 Total 1.9 7.8 Current Derivatives used for hedging note 6.13 - 0.2 Total - 0.2 Derivatives used for hedging the term loan and variable rate derived interest rate income are classified as a non-current asset, as the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months.
Derivatives used for hedging the exposure to variations in exchange rates are recognised as a current asset, as the forecast transactions denominated in a foreign currency are expected to occur within six months of the year end.
9.2 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2017 2016 Non-current m m Derivatives used for hedging note 6.13 3.4 3.1 Finance lease liabilities 1.1 1.4 Total 4.5 4.5 Current Derivatives used for hedging note 6.13 5.8 - Finance lease liabilities 0.6 0.5 Total 6.4 0.5 Derivatives used for hedging the term loan and variable rate derived interest rate income are classified as a non-current liability, as the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months.
Derivatives used for hedging the exposure to variations in exchange rates are recognised as a current liability, as the forecast transactions denominated in a foreign currency are expected to occur within six months of the year end.
9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Defined contribution pension plans The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans.
The total expense relating to these plans in the year was 7.3m 2016: 7.2m.
Defined benefit pension plans The Group operates three funded defined benefit pension plans in the UK.
All of the plans are final salary pension plans and provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension, payable for life.
The liability under all schemes is based on final salary and length of service to the employer.
The assets of the schemes are held independently of the Groups assets, in separate trustee-administered funds.
The Trustees of the pension funds are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders.
The net liability of the three schemes is set out below: 2017 2016 m m Equiniti ICS Limited 1.5 1.6 Paymaster 1836 Limited 20.1 20.9 MyCSP Limited 1.1 1.4 Total defined benefit pension plan net liability 22.7 23.9 181 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED Full actuarial valuations are performed every three years which determines the funding required to eliminate the net pension plan liabilities.
The latest full valuations took place in 2015 resulting in deficit payments of 0.8m per annum being agreed with the Trustees over the subsequent years until the next valuations are due in 2018.
All pension schemes have been closed to new members for a number of years and all schemes are now closed to future accrual, apart from a small sub-section of the Paymaster 1836 Limited scheme.
This allows better matching of assets to movements in interest rates and inflation and is expected to reduce the financial risks associated with these plans going forwards.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation consists of approximately 3.7m 2016: 19.7m relating to active employees, 54.2m 2016: 42.5m relating to deferred members and 22.8m 2016: 22.1m relating to members in retirement.
The investment strategy of the plans are set taking into account a number of factors including the profile and value of plan liabilities, the strength of the employer covenant and the long-term funding objectives agreed with the employer.
The schemes have a broad allocation of investments in return-seeking assets with the remaining allocated to liability matching assets, designed to partially offset the movements in the scheme liabilities caused by movements in interest rates and inflation.
The asset split reflects the Trustees view of the most appropriate investments balancing risk reward characteristics of the funds the Scheme is invested in.
Pension plan assets are valued at fair value.
Quoted equities and debt instruments on a recognised stock exchange are valued at the closing market price as at the valuation date.
Exchange traded and over-the-counter derivative instruments are valued at the settlement price or at the latest valuation for such instruments on the valuation date.
The value of investments in buildings or land will be based on valuations prepared and certified by independent valuers and adjusted to take account of changes in prices, where material, since the last valuation.
Cash and other illiquid assets will be valued at their face value plus accrued interest at the valuation date.
The Group is exposed to a number of risks through its defined benefit pension plans, the most significant of which are described below: Investment risk Scheme growth assets are invested in a diversified portfolio of debt securities, equities and other return-seeking assets such as pooled private markets fund.
If the assets underperform the discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit obligation, it will increase the net pension plan liabilities.
Interest rate risk A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this is likely to be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond liability driven investment holdings.
Inflation risk The majority of the liabilities are linked to inflation, although in most cases, caps on the level of inflation increases are in place to protect the scheme against extreme inflation.
An increase in inflation rates will lead to higher liabilities, although this is likely to be partially offset by an increase in the value of some of the plans liability driven investments.
Longevity risk The pension plans' provide benefits for the life of the members, therefore increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans' liabilities.
The Group and Trustees are aware of these risks and manage them through appropriate investment and funding strategies.
The Trustees manage governance and operational risks through a number of internal control policies, including a risk register.
Defined benefit plan Equiniti ICS Limited A full actuarial valuation was carried out at 5 April 2015 and has since been updated each year end to 31 December 2017 by a qualified independent actuary.
2017 2016 m m Present value of obligations 13.1 12.6 Fair value of plan assets 11.6 11.0 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 1.5 1.6 2017 2016 Movement in present value of defined benefit obligation m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 12.6 10.4 Curtailment gain - 0.2 Interest cost 0.3 0.5 Actuarial losses changes in financial assumptions 0.6 2.1 Actuarial losses gains changes in demographic assumptions 0.1 0.1 Actuarial losses other experience items - 0.1 Benefits paid 0.5 0.2 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 13.1 12.6 182 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED 2017 2016 Movement in fair value of plan assets m m Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 11.0 9.3 Interest income 0.3 0.4 Actuarial losses changes in financial assumptions 0.7 1.3 Employer contributions 0.1 0.2 Benefits paid 0.5 0.2 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 11.6 11.0 2017 2016 m m Actual return on plan assets 1.0 1.7 2017 2016 Income recognised in statement of comprehensive income m m Curtailment gain - 0.2 Interest cost 0.3 0.5 Interest income 0.3 0.4 Total income - 0.1 2017 2016 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income m m Cumulative loss at 1 January 3.4 2.6 Actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income - 0.8 Cumulative loss at 31 December 3.4 3.4 2017 2016 Plan assets are comprised of the following: m m Equities 3.3 2.7 Corporate bonds 1.0 1.0 Diversified growth funds 2.2 2.1 Liability-driven investment funds 2.9 2.8 Illiquid assets 2.2 2.0 Cash - 0.4 11.6 11.0 Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: 2017 2016 Discount rate 2.62% 2.79% Rate of increase of pensions in payment: CPI subject to a max of 3.0% pa. 1.89% 1.92% RPI subject to a max of 5.0% pa. 3.02% 3.06% RPI subject to a max of 2.5% pa. 2.15% 2.16% Rate of increase of pensions in deferment 2.09% 2.14% Inflation assumption 3.09% 3.14% 183 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED Weighted average life expectancy for mortality tables 100% SAPS S2PMA, 100% SAPS S2FA, 100% SAPS S2PA CMI 2016, 1% long-term trend used to determine benefit obligations at 31 December 2017: Male Female Member age 65 current life expectancy 86.9 88.8 Member age 45 life expectancy at 65 88.0 90.0 Contributions Equiniti ICS Limited expects to contribute 0.2m to its pension plan in 2018.
Defined benefit plan Paymaster 1836 Limited A full actuarial valuation was carried out at 5 April 2015 and has since been updated each year end to 31 December 2017 by a qualified independent actuary.
2017 2016 m m Present value of obligations 59.6 57.9 Fair value of plan assets 39.5 37.0 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 20.1 20.9 2017 2016 Movement in present value of defined benefit obligation m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 57.9 47.4 Current service cost 0.2 0.6 Past service gain - 1.0 Curtailment cost - 0.8 Interest cost 1.6 1.8 Actuarial losses change in financial assumptions 0.8 10.3 Actuarial losses gains other experience items 0.7 0.3 Benefits paid 1.6 1.7 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 59.6 57.9 2017 2016 Movement in fair value of plan assets m m Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 37.0 35.0 Interest income 1.0 1.3 Actuarial gains 2.1 1.3 Employer contributions 1.0 1.0 Benefits paid 1.6 1.6 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 39.5 37.0 184 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED 2017 2016 m m Actual return on plan assets 3.1 2.6 2017 2016 Expense recognised in statement of comprehensive income m m Current service cost 0.2 0.6 Past service gain - 1.0 Curtailment cost - 0.8 Interest cost 1.6 1.8 Interest income 1.0 1.3 Total expense 0.8 0.9 2017 2016 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income m m Cumulative loss at 1 January 22.0 13.3 Actuarial gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 0.6 8.7 Cumulative loss at 31 December 21.4 22.0 2017 2016 Plan assets are comprised of the following: m m Private equity and diversified growth funds 21.0 21.0 Liability driven investment funds 9.6 8.2 Illiquid assets 8.2 7.6 Cash and other 0.7 0.2 39.5 37.0 Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: 2017 2016 Discount rate 2.66% 2.81% Rate of compensation increase 1.50% 1.50% Rate of increase of pensions in payment 3.08% 3.13% Rate of increase of pensions in deferment Pre 6 April 2009 service : 3.08% 3.13% Pre 6 April 2009 3.08% 3.13% Post 6 April 2009 2.08% 2.13% Rate of increase of pensions in deferment Post 6 April 2009 service 2.50% 2.50% Inflation assumption 3.08% 3.13% Weighted average life expectancy for mortality tables 96% SAPS S2PMA, 84% SAPS S2PFA CMI 2016, 1% long term trend used to determine benefit obligations at 31 December 2017: Male Female Member age 65 current life expectancy 86.8 89.8 Member age 45 life expectancy at 65 88.0 91.1 Contributions Paymaster 1836 Limited expects to contribute 0.8m to its pension plan in 2018.
185 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED Defined benefit plan MyCSP Limited The latest full actuarial valuation was carried out at 31 December 2015 and has since been updated to 31 December 2017 by a qualified independent actuary.
During the year the MyCSP Limited pension plan was restructured which resulted in a number of members leaving the plan.
This caused assets and liabilities to substantially reduce in 2017.
2017 2016 m m Present value of obligations 8.0 13.8 Fair value of plan assets 6.9 12.4 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations 1.1 1.4 2017 2016 Movement in present value of defined benefit obligation m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 13.8 9.8 Current service cost - 1.0 Curtailment gain - 0.3 Interest cost 0.3 0.4 Member contributions - 0.1 Actuarial losses changes in financial assumptions 0.1 3.2 Actuarial gains changes in demographic assumptions 0.1 - Actuarial gains other experience items - 0.2 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 5.9 - Benefits paid 0.2 0.2 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 8.0 13.8 2017 2016 Movement in fair value of plan assets m m Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 12.4 9.8 Interest income 0.3 0.4 Actuarial gain 0.2 1.2 Employer contributions 0.1 1.2 Member contributions - 0.1 Assets distributed on settlements 5.8 - Benefits paid 0.2 0.2 Administration expenses 0.1 0.1 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 6.9 12.4 2017 2016 m m Actual return on plan assets 0.5 1.6 186 SECTION 03 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9.3 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED 2017 2016 Expense recognised in statement of comprehensive income m m Current service cost - 1.0 Curtailment gain - 0.3 Administration expenses 0.1 0.1 Interest cost 0.3 0.4 Interest income 0.3 0.4 Total expense 0.1 0.8 2017 2016 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income m m Cumulative loss gain at 1 January 1.6 0.2 Actuarial gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 0.2 1.8 Cumulative loss at 31 December 1.4 1.6 2017 2016 Plan assets are comprised of the following: m m UK equities - 1.1 Overseas equities 0.6 1.2 Corporate bonds 4.0 7.2 Diversified growth fund 2.3 2.9 6.9 12.4 Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: 2017 2016 Discount rate 2.68% 2.80% Rate of compensation increase n a 3.65% Rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.06% 2.15% Rate of increase of pensions in deferment 2.06% 2.15% Inflation assumption 3.06% 3.15% Weighted average life expectancy for mortality tables 100% SAPS S2PMA, 100% SAPS S2PFA, 100% SAPS S2PxA CMI 2016, 1% long-term trend used to determine benefit obligations at 31 December 2017: Male Female Member age 65 current life expectancy 86.9 88.8 Member age 45 life expectancy at 65 88.0 90.0 Contributions MyCSP Limited does not expect to make contributions to the scheme in 2018.
Sensitivity analysis Assumptions are used in calculating the pension obligation.
The total effect on the employee benefit liability on all schemes as at 31 December 2017 of an increase in life expectancy by one year would be an increase of 2.9m 2016: 3.0m, a 0.5% decrease in the discount rate used would be an increase of 8.6m 2016: 8.7m, and a 0.5% increase in the inflation assumption would be an increase of 7.6m 2016: 8.6m.
These individual sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
187 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9.4 OPERATING LEASES Future aggregate minimum lease payments, relating primarily to the Groups premises, are payable as follows: 2017 2016 m m Less than one year 5.8 5.5 Between one and five years 17.6 16.4 More than five years 21.1 21.0 Total 44.5 42.9 9.5 RECONCILIATION OF PROFIT TO CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 2017 2016 m m Profit before income tax 25.6 28.5 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5.7 5.4 Amortisation of software 18.3 16.0 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangibles 26.7 25.3 Finance income 0.8 0.2 Finance costs 12.5 12.4 Share-based payments expense 3.5 1.7 Changes in working capital: Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 6.9 0.3 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 0.1 23.0 Decrease in provisions 1.3 2.4 Total cash generated from operations 83.4 64.0 9.6 EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE On 1 February 2018, the Group completed on the acquisition of the trade and assets of Wells Fargo Shareowner Services WFSS for a total cash consideration of $227.0m 159.6m, and a further 9.8m in settlement of a deal contingent forward used to hedge the acquisition.
This gives a total outflow of 169.4m related to the acquisition of WFSS.
WFSS is a share registration business based in the United States.
The results of WFSS will be consolidated from 1 February 2018 when control was obtained.
The Group is in the process of determining the fair values of the assets acquired and will present the recognised amounts of identifiable assets and liabilities assumed in the Groups 2018 interim report.
Costs incurred in the year ended 31 December 2017 of acquiring the business amounted to 9.9m.
