Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 23 Loans continued c Collateral Loans to banks include cash collateral received under stock lending arrangements see note 58 for further discussion regarding these collateral positions.
The obligation to repay this collateral is included in payables and other financial liabilities note 50.
The Group holds collateral in respect of loans where it is considered appropriate in order to reduce the risk of non-recovery.
This collateral generally takes the form of liens or charges over properties and, in the case of policy loans, the underlying policy for the majority of the loan balances above.
In all other situations, the collateral must be in a readily realisable form, such as listed securities, and is held in segregated accounts.
24 Securitised mortgages and related assets The Group, in its UK Life business has loans receivable, secured by mortgages, which have then been securitised through non-recourse borrowings.
This note gives details of the relevant transactions.
a Description of current arrangements In a UK long-term business subsidiary, Aviva Equity Release UK Limited AER, the beneficial interest in certain portfolios of lifetime mortgages has been transferred to five special purpose securitisation companies the ERF companies, in return for initial consideration and, at later dates, deferred consideration.
The deferred consideration represents receipts accrued within the ERF companies after meeting all their obligations to the note holders, loan providers and other third parties in the priority of payments.
The purchases of the mortgages were funded by the issue of fixed and floating rate notes by the ERF companies.
All the shares in the ERF companies are held by independent companies, whose shares are held on trust.
Although AER does not own, directly or indirectly, any of the share capital of the ERF companies or their parent companies, it has control of the securitisation companies, and they have therefore been treated as subsidiaries in the consolidated financial statements.
AER has no right to repurchase the benefit of any of the securitised mortgage loans, other than in certain circumstances where AER is in breach of warranty or loans are substituted in order to effect a further advance.
AER has purchased subordinated notes and granted subordinated loans to some of the ERF companies.
In addition, Group companies have invested 231 million 2016: 217 million in loan notes issued by the ERF companies.
These have been eliminated on consolidation through offset against the borrowings of the ERF companies in the consolidated statement of financial position.
In all of the above transactions, the Company and its subsidiaries are not obliged to support any losses that may be suffered by the note holders and do not intend to provide such support.
Additionally, the notes were issued on the basis that note holders are only entitled to obtain payment, of both principal and interest, to the extent that the available resources of the respective special purpose securitisation companies, including funds due from customers in respect of the securitised loans, are sufficient and that note holders have no recourse whatsoever to other companies in the Aviva Group.
b Carrying values The following table summarises the securitisation arrangements: 2017 2016 Securitised Securitised Securitised Securitised assets borrowings assets borrowings m m m m Securitised mortgage loans 1 At fair value note 23 2,463 1,411 2,424 1,327 1 Other securitisation assets liabilities 265 1,317 253 1,350 2,728 2,728 2,677 2,677 1 Following a review of the classification of mortgage loans, 4,992 million has been transferred from securitised to non-securitised mortgage loans in 2016.
The net impact on total loans is nil.
Loan notes held by third parties are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Total loan notes issued, as above 1,411 1,327 Less: Loan notes held by Group companies 231 217 Loan notes held by third parties note 49 c i 1,180 1,110 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 150
