Shareholder Information SHAREHOLDER INFORMA TION The Company is registered in England and Wales under Company No.
Its registered office address is 20 Fenchurch Street, London EC3M 3AU Telephone: 44 0 20 7111 7000.
The Companys corporate website provides shareholders with a broad range of information about the Groups heritage, social and environmental responsibilities and investor information such as the Groups financial statements, current and historic share prices, Annual General Meeting AGM materials, events, governance information and answers to frequently asked questions in respect of shareholder matters.
Visit the investor website at www.
com investors for further information.
The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited Equiniti.
Any administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as dividend payment instructions or a change of address, should be notified to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, Telephone: 0371 384 2048.
When contacting Equiniti, please quote your shareholder reference number which can be found on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
Telephone lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Shareholders with a text phone facility should use 44 0 371 384 2255 or alternatively use the Text Relay service by dialling 18001 0121 415 7064 directly from the text phone.
To securely email Equiniti with an enquiry visit www.
Annual General Meeting The 2018 AGM will be held at 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD on Friday, 11 May 2018 at 11.00am.
A letter from the Chairman and the notice convening the AGM Notice is made available to all Ordinary Shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and can be found on the Companys website at www.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each item of business.
In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association, any proxy form sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be returned to the Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting, excluding non-business days or, in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at, or on, the same day as the meeting, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
At any general meeting, every Ordinary Shareholder present shall have one vote on a show of hands and on a poll, every Ordinary Shareholder present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each Ordinary Share of which he she is the holder.
Each resolution will be put to a poll at the AGM in 2018.
The results of the vote on each resolution will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and will be available on the Companys website, www.
Ordinary Share performance The average total daily trading volume on the London Stock Exchange during 2017 was approximately 2.99m Ordinary Shares.
The opening market price of an ordinary share on 3 January 2017 was 588.5 pence and the closing market price on 29 December 2017 was 632.5 pence.
The highest daily closing price of an ordinary share during 2017 was 666.5 pence on 31 August 2017 and the lowest daily closing price was 562.5 pence on 23 January 2017.
Distribution of shares by geography as at 29 December 2017 Analysis of Beneficial Holders as at 29 December 2017 threshold 25,000 Ordinary shares and above threshold 25,000 Ordinary shares and above a. UK 43.2% a.
Unit Trust Mutual funds 56.48% b. Europe 25.0% b.
The programme allows shareholders to invest in the Company through US dollar denominated funds.
One ADR represents one Ordinary Share of 1.00 each.
Any enquiry relating to the sponsored ADR programme should be addressed to JPMorgan Chase & Co, PO Box 64504, St Paul, MN 55164-0504 USA or alternatively visit adr.
com shareholder and select Contact Us.
Managing your Shareholding Information on how to manage your shareholding can be found at www.
If you do not find the information you require, you can send your enquiry via secure email from these pages.
You will be asked to complete a form providing your name, address and shareholder reference number.
If you require an email response, you will need to provide your email address.
Dividends Shareholders are encouraged to have their dividends paid directly into their bank account.
It is a more secure and faster way to receive the dividend payment with cleared funds available to shareholders on the dividend payment date.
Shareholders who have their dividends paid directly into their bank account, receive annual dividend confirmations once a year, showing payments received in the respective tax year.
Alternatively, individual dividend confirmations are available upon request.
To take advantage of this convenient method of payment visit www.
co. uk or contact Equiniti.
Details of 2018 dividend dates are detailed overleaf.
Amalgamation of accounts Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings owing to multiple accounts in their name may contact Equiniti to request that their accounts be amalgamated.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee CSN The RSA CSN is an easy and convenient way for you to hold and manage your RSA shares electronically, so there is no need for a paper certificate.
You are still the beneficial owner of the shares and you can instruct the nominee to buy, sell or transfer your holding on your behalf.
Shareholders participating in this service continue to receive dividend payments and annual reports and can attend and vote at RSAs general meetings.
The service is administered by Equiniti Financial Services Limited, part of the same group of companies as our Registrar, Equiniti.
If you would like to join, please call Equiniti on 0371 384 2048 to obtain an application form today or visit www.
co. uk info csn for more information, including the CSN terms and conditions.
Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm UK time, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Low cost share dealing facilities Shareholders may purchase or sell their RSA Ordinary Shares through their stockbroker, a high street bank or one of the providers detailed below: Equiniti offers a telephone and internet dealing service.
Commission is 1.5 percent rate quoted as at 21 February 2018 and may be subject to change on amounts up to 50,000 and 0.25 percent on the excess thereafter, with a minimum charge of 60 for telephone dealing and 45 for internet dealing.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
For internet sales log on to www.
Please quote your shareholder reference number.
Stocktrade offers an online dealing service.
An account can be opened by visiting www.
co. uk, applying for an account which enable to buy, sell or transfer.
Alternatively call 44 0 13 8257 3737 for more detailed information on commission charges and their full terms and conditions.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 187 Shareholder Information continued Electronic communications Receiving the Companys communications electronically allows the Company to communicate with its shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, cost effective and timely manner.
You can elect to receive email notification of shareholder communications by registering at www.
co. uk where you can also set up a bank mandate to receive dividends directly to your bank account and submit proxy votes for shareholder meetings.
Shareholders may elect to receive a printed copy of the Annual Report and Accounts at any time by contacting Equiniti.
Additionally, if you wish to register for the Companys investor news service to receive the latest news and press releases by email, visit www.
Share register fraud: protecting your investment UK law requires that our shareholder register is available for public inspection.
We are unable to control the use of information obtained by persons inspecting the register.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings or on our website.
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited advice, make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and check that they are appropriately authorised by the FCA by visiting www.
More information on protecting your investment can be found at www.
If you do receive a fraudulent approach, please advise the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams or call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Tips on protecting your shares Keep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference number in a safe place and destroy any documentation you no longer require by shredding Inform Equiniti promptly when you change your address Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact Equiniti if you do not receive your dividend cheque, or better still, make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account via a nominee account or in the Corporate Sponsored Nominee.
Sharegift Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity number 1052686.
The relevant share transfer form can be obtained from Equiniti.
Further details can be obtained from www.
188 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017
