Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 54 Group capital management a Introduction 1 Group capital is represented by Solvency II Own Funds.
At 31 December 2017, the estimated Solvency II Own Funds shareholder view amounts to 24.7 billion 31 December 2016: 24.0 billion.
This excludes the contribution to Group Own Funds of fully ring fenced withprofits funds of 3.3 billion 31 December 2016: 2.9 billion and staff pension schemes in surplus of 1.5 billion 31 December 2016: 1.1 billion.
These exclusions have no impact on Solvency II surplus.
The most material fully ring fenced with-profit funds and staff pension schemes are self-supporting on a Solvency II capital basis with any surplus capital above Solvency Capital Requirements SCR not recognised in the Group position.
The shareholder view is considered by Management to be more representative of the shareholders risk exposure and the Groups ability to cover the SCR with eligible own funds.
The Solvency II Own Funds is shown inclusive of pro forma adjustments to align it with the capital information presented to management internally.
This represents a change from the prior year presentation when such adjustments were excluded.
Pro forma adjustments are made when, in the opinion of the Directors, the cover ratio does not fully reflect the effect of transactions or capital actions that are known as at each reporting date.
Such adjustments may be required in respect of planned acquisitions and disposals, group reorganisations and adjustments to the Solvency II valuation basis arising from changes to the underlying Regulations or updated interpretations provided by EIOPA.
The 31 December 2017 Solvency II Own Funds position includes the net pro forma impact arising from the disposals of Friends Provident International Limited and the Italian joint venture Avipop Assicurazioni S. p. A, which is nil.
The 31 December 2016 Solvency II Own Funds position includes the pro forma impacts of 0.1 billion in relation to the disposal of Avivas 50% shareholding in Antarius to Sogecap, which completed on 5 April 2017, and a then anticipated future change to UK tax rules restricting the tax relief that could be claimed in respect of tax losses announced in the Chancellor of the Exchequers Autumn statement of 23 November 2016, which has been removed in 2017 following a clarification in the 13 July 2017 Finance Bill.
The Solvency II risk margin is highly sensitive to movements in interest rates, which can be offset by a rest in the transitional measure on technical provisions TMTP.
The 31 December 2016 Solvency II position disclosed includes a notional reset of the TMTP to reflect interest rates at 31 December 2016 of 0.4 billion.
This presentation is consistent with the Groups approach to manage its capital position assuming a dynamic TMTP in respect of interest rate movements on the risk margin, as this avoids step changes to the Solvency II position that arise only when the formal TMTP reset points are triggered.
The estimated 31 December 2017 Solvency II position includes an estimated reset of the TMTP in line with the regulatory requirement to reset the TMTP every two years.
The TMTP is amortised on a straightline basis over 16 years from 1 January 2016 in line with the Solvency II rules.
Own Funds are comprised of a combination of shareholders funds, preference share capital, direct capital instrument, tier 1 notes, subordinated debt, and deferred tax assets measured on a Solvency II basis.
Refer to note 54 b for further details on Solvency II.
Management also considers a capital employed metric prepared on an IFRS basis in managing capital and measuring business unit performance.
The total capital employed comprises of similar items to Own Funds but measured in accordance with IFRS and includes senior debt.
In particular, analysis of return on equity calculated based on the capital employed has been used as one of the inputs to Managements decision making process for capital allocation purposes.
The primary objective of capital management is to maintain an efficient capital structure, in a manner consistent with our risk profile and the regulatory and market requirements of our business.
Capital is a primary consideration across a wide range of business activities, including product development, pricing, business planning, merger and acquisition transactions and asset & liability management.
A Capital Management Standard, applicable group-wide, sets out minimum standards and guidelines over responsibility for capital management including considerations for capital management decisions and requirements for management information, capital monitoring, reporting, forecasting, planning and overall governance.
1 Own funds is capital available to cover the Solvency capital requirement SCR and Minimum Capital Requirement MCR under Solvency II.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 198 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 54 Group capital management continued The Group manages capital in conjunction with solvency capital requirements, and seeks to: on a consistent basis: Match the profile of our assets and liabilities, taking into account the risks inherent in each business: Maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength in accordance with risk appetite, to support new business growth and satisfy the requirements of our regulators and other stakeholders giving both our customers and shareholders assurance of our financial strength.
Refer to note 56 for more information about the Groups risk management approach: Retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, access to a range of capital markets and significant unutilised committed credit lines: Allocate capital rigorously to support value adding growth and repatriate excess capital where appropriate: and Declare dividends with reference to factors including growth in cash flow and earnings.
b IFRS basis In 2017, the Group maintained a strong capital position through a combination of increased profits and management actions contributing to operating capital generation offset by hybrid debt repayment, share buy-back and dividend distributions.
At 31 December 2017, total capital employed prepared on an IFRS basis amounted to 27.7 billion 2016: 28.1 billion.
This comprises: 2017 Capital 2016 Capital employed employed m m Equity shareholders' funds 16,969 16,803 Non-controlling interests 1,235 1,425 Direct capital instrument & tier 1 notes 731 1,123 Preference shares 200 200 1 Subordinated debt 7,221 7,213 Senior debt 1,419 1,364 2 Total capital employed 27,775 28,128 1 Subordinated debt excludes amounts held by Group companies of 9 million 2016: 9 million.
2 Goodwill, AVIF and other intangibles are maintained within the capital base.
Goodwill includes goodwill in subsidiaries of 1,876 million 2016: 2,045 million, goodwill in joint ventures of 17 million 2016: 20 million and goodwill in associates of nil 2016: 47 million.
AVIF and other intangibles comprise 3,456 million 2016: 5,468 million of intangibles in subsidiaries, 40 million 2016: 72 million of intangibles in joint ventures and nil million 2016: 18 million of intangibles in associates, net of deferred tax liabilities of 721 million 2016: 783 million and the non-controlling interest share of intangibles of 222 million 2016: 226 million.
The decrease in the capital employed is primarily driven by the decrease in direct capital instrument & tier 1 notes as a result of the redemption of the Groups $650 million tier 1 notes in full at the first call date on 3 November 2017 and the decrease in non-controlling interests mainly resulting from the sale of Antarius in April 2017 and Spanish operations in September 2017 see note 3 b i and iii.
To support value adding growth by efficient capital allocation, the Group continued to reallocate capital from businesses where the capital returns were low: for example the Group withdrew capital from France and Spain see note 3 b i and iii.
c Solvency II basis Solvency II is the Europe-wide prudential regulatory framework that came into force on 1 January 2016 and put in place a consistent solvency framework for insurers across Europe.
This capital regime requires insurers to calculate regulatory capital adequacy at both individual regulated subsidiaries and an aggregate Group level.
Non-EEA entities have been included in Group solvency in line with Solvency II requirements.
Other financial sector entities including fund management are included at their proportional share of the capital requirement according to the relevant sectoral values.
Solvency II surplus at the Group level represents the excess of the aggregate value of capital employed in our business over the aggregate solvency capital requirements calculated in accordance with Solvency II requirements.
The Group maintained capital in excess of the Solvency Capital Requirement SCR at all times during 2017.
Further information on the Groups Solvency II position, including details of available capital resources and solvency surplus, determined using the shareholders view of Solvency II and including pro forma adjustments, can be found in other information section.
This information is estimated and is therefore subject to change.
In addition, non-EEA businesses including Canada, Hong Kong and Singapore, are subject to the locally applicable capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
All regulated subsidiaries complied with their capital requirements throughout the year.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 199
