Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Alternative Performance Measures Operating profit includes the effect of variances in experience for Alternative Performance Measures non-economic items, such as mortality, persistency and expenses, In order to fully explain the performance of our business, we discuss and the effect of changes in non-economic assumptions.
This and analyse our results in terms of financial measures which include would include movements in liabilities due to changes in discount a number of alternative performance measures APMs.
APMs are rate arising from management decisions that impact on product non-GAAP measures which are used to supplement the disclosures profitability over the lifetime of products.
Changes due to economic prepared in accordance with other regulations such as International items, such as market value movement and interest rate changes, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and Solvency II.
We believe which give rise to variances between actual and expected these measures provide useful information to enhance the investment returns, and the impact of changes in economic understanding of our financial performance.
However, APMs should assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed separately outside be viewed as complementary to, rather than as a substitute for, the operating profit.
figures determined according to other regulations.
Operating profit for the non-life insurance business is based on The APMs utilised by Aviva may not be the same as those used expected investment returns on financial investments backing by other insurers and may change over time.
These metrics are shareholder funds over the period.
reviewed annually and updated as appropriate to ensure they remain an effective measurement that underpins the objectives for Expected investment returns are calculated for equities and the Group.
properties by multiplying the opening market value of the This section includes additional detail in respect of APMs investments, adjusted for sales and purchases during the year, by utilised by the Group, including a reconciliation to the relevant the longer-term rate of return.
This rate of return is the same as amounts appearing in the Groups IFRS financial statements and, that applied for the long-term business expected returns.
where appropriate, a commentary on the material reconciling The longer-term return for other investments is the actual income items.
This section should be read in conjunction with the Strategic receivable for the period.
report which includes an analysis of the development and performance of the Groups business during the year and its overall Changes due to market value movement and interest rate changes, financial position at the end of the year.
which give rise to variances between actual and expected investment returns, are disclosed separately outside operating 1.
Group adjusted operating profit operating profit profit.
The impact of changes in the discount rate applied to claims Operating profit is a non-GAAP APM which is reported to the Group provisions is also disclosed outside operating profit.
chief operating decision maker for the purpose of decision making The exclusion of short-term investment variances from this APM and internal performance management of the Groups operating reflects the long-term nature of much of our business.
The segments that incorporates an expected return on investments operating profit which is used in managing the performance of our supporting the life and non-life insurance businesses.
The various operating segments excludes the impact of economic factors, to items taken out of operating profit are: provide a comparable measure year-on-year.
Investment variances and economic assumptions changes Impairment, amortisation and profit loss on disposal Operating profit for the life insurance business is based on expected Operating profit also excludes impairment of goodwill, associates investment returns on financial investments backing shareholder and joint ventures: amortisation and impairment of other and policyholder funds over the reporting period, with allowance intangibles: amortisation and impairment of acquired value of infor the corresponding expected movements in liabilities.
force business: and the profit or loss on disposal and The expected rate of return is determined using consistent remeasurement of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
assumptions between operations, having regard to local These items principally relate to merger and acquisition activity economic and market forecasts of investment return and asset which we view as strategic in nature, hence they are excluded from classification.
the operating profit APM as this is principally used to manage the For fixed interest securities classified as fair value through profit or performance of our operating segments when reporting to the loss, the expected investment returns are based on average Group chief operating decision maker.
prospective yields for the actual assets held less an adjustment for credit risks.
Where such securities are classified as available for sale the expected return comprises interest or dividend payments and amortisation of the premium or discount at purchase.
The expected return on equities and properties is calculated by reference to the opening 10-year swap rate in the relevant currency plus an appropriate risk margin.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 240 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Alternative Performance Measures Continued Other items prolonged low interest rates.
A further negative variance stems from These items are, in the Directors view, required to be separately losses realised in 2017 on derivative-based funds.
disclosed by virtue of their nature or incidence to enable a full During 2017 the Group has kept its long-term assumptions for understanding of the Groups financial performance.
future property prices and rental income under review to allow for Operating profit is presented before and after integration and the possible future adverse impact of the decision for the UK to restructuring costs.
The aim has been to maintain the same allowance in these assumptions in 2017 as was included in 2016, as The Group adjusted operating profit APM should be viewed as the impact of the Brexit process on the UK economy remains complementary to IFRS GAAP measures.
It is important to consider uncertain.
Group adjusted operating profit and profit before tax together to In 2016, investment variances and economic assumption understand the performance of the business in the period.
Positive variances in the UK The table below presents a reconciliation between our reflected lower interest rates and narrowing credit spreads, which consolidated operating profit and profit before tax attributable to increased asset values more than liabilities.
In the first half of 2016 shareholders profits.
the Group revised its expectation of future property prices and rental income in light of the UK referendum vote for the UK to leave 2017 2016 m m the European Union.
The adverse impact of this adjustment on the United Kingdom Life 1,764 1,553 Groups equity release and commercial mortgage portfolios was United Kingdom General Insurance 411 395 broadly offset in the second half of the year as expectations for Canada 46 270 future property price and rental growth increased.
In addition, in the Europe 1,059 1,019 UK the investment variance reflected a refined approach of Asia 191 201 assuming best estimate expected credit defaults on corporate Aviva Investors 201 160 bonds, with a resulting increase in Group adjusted operating profit Other Group activities 604 588 in the period.
The positive variance in the UK was partially offset by Operating profit before tax attributable to negative variances in France and Italy.
The negative variance in shareholders' profit 3,068 3,010 France reflected losses on equity hedges managed on an economic Integration and restructuring costs 141 212 basis rather than an IFRS basis and falling interest rates, while the Operating profit before tax after integration and negative variance in Italy reflected widening credit spreads.
restructuring costs 2,927 2,798 Short-term fluctuations on non long-term business were 345 Adjusted for the following: million negative 2016: 518 million negative.
The adverse Investment return variances and economic assumption movements during 2017 are mainly due to foreign exchange losses changes on long-term business 34 379 and adverse market movements on Group Centre holdings, Short-term fluctuation in return on investments on non-long-term business 345 518 including the centre hedging programme.
Economic assumption changes on general insurance In the general insurance and health business, an adverse impact and health business 7 242 of 7 million 2016: 242 million adverse mainly arises as a result of Impairment of goodwill, associates and joint ventures a slight decrease in the estimated future inflation rate used to value and other amounts expensed 49 periodic payment orders offset by a slight decrease in the interest Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 197 175 rates used to discount claim reserves for periodic payment orders Amortisation and impairment of acquired value of inforce business 495 540 and latent claims.
During 2016 market interest rates used to Loss profit on the disposal and remeasurement of discount periodic payment orders and latent claims reduced and subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 135 11 the estimated future inflation rate used to value periodic payment Other 498 orders was increased to be consistent with market expectations.
Adjusting items before tax 924 1,605 This was, in part, offset by a change in estimate for the interest rate Profit before tax attributable to shareholders' profits 2,003 1,193 used to discount periodic payment orders to allow for the illiquid nature of these liabilities.
Adjusting items Impairment of goodwill, associates and joint ventures expensed in the period comprised of 2 million in respect of an impairment of Integration and restructuring costs decreased to 141 million 2016: 212 million, as a result of lower transformation spend.
goodwill at Elite Insurance Company of Canada and 47 million in respect of the full impairment of goodwill in our investment in Life investment variances and economic assumption changes were 34 million positive 2016: 379 million positive.
The variance associate Aviva India 2016: nil.
Amortisation and impairment of acquired value of in-force in 2017 is driven by positive variances in the UK, which are partially offset by negative variances in France.
business AVIF in the year is a charge of 495 million 2016: 540 million charge.
The charge for the year includes 469 million of Positive variances in the UK are mainly due to economic modelling developments implemented in 2017.
These include a amortisation in respect of the Groups subsidiaries and jointventures and impairment charges of 26 million in relation to the one-off development to align the approach to calculating the valuation interest rate across the heritage Aviva and Friends Life FPIs reinsured book of business and Aviva India.
The total Group profit on disposal and remeasurement of portfolios and also a development to the approach to calculating the valuation interest rate for certain deferred annuity business.
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is 135 million 2016: 11 million loss.
This consists of 23 million of remeasurement gains in Positive variances also reflect fewer than expected defaults and downgrades on corporate bonds, better than expected experience respect of the joint venture operations in Poland and Aviva Vietnam: 237 million profit on the disposals of Antarius, France health, three on equity release mortgages in terms of losses related to no negative equity guarantees and a reduction in the default businesses in Spain and other small operations: offset by 125 million of remeasurement losses in relation to FPI and Taiwan.
The negative variance in France is primarily due to an increase Other items are those items that, in the directors view, are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their nature or in life annuity pension reserves, resulting from a reduction to the discount rate cap used in the calculation of these reserves.
This incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
There were no other items in 2017. economic assumption change reflects the current environment of Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 241 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Alternative Performance Measures Continued In 2016, other items included a charge of 475 million in respect The reconciliation from total Group equity on an IFRS basis to of the change in the Ogden discount rate.
This was excluded from Solvency II Own Funds is presented below.
This information is operating profit on the grounds that the change in rate from 2.5% to estimated and is therefore subject to change.
The valuation -0.75% reflects the Lord Chancellors view of the development of differences reflect moving from IFRS valuations to a Solvency II interest rates in the period since 2001 when the rate was last shareholder view of Own Funds.
This was reported outside operating profit as it does not 2017 2016 reflect the underlying performance of the Group for the year and bn bn would distort the trend in Group adjusted operating profit on a Total Group equity on an IFRS basis 19.1 19.6 year-on-year basis.
In 2017 the impact of Ogden was immaterial.
1 Elimination of goodwill and other intangible assets 9.8 10.0 In 2016, other items also include 23 million relating to the loss Liability valuation differences net of transitional 22.0 22.1 2 upon the completion of an outwards reinsurance contract, written deductions in 2015 by the UK General Insurance business, which provides Inclusion of risk margin net of transitional deductions 3.3 4.4 3 Net deferred tax 1.3 1.6 significant protection against claims volatility from mesothelioma, Revaluation of subordinated liabilities 0.9 0.7 industrial deafness and other long tail risks.
Estimated Solvency II Net Assets gross of non- 4 controlling interests 26.0 24.8 2.
Solvency II Solvency II, the Europeanwide prudential regulatory framework, Difference between Solvency II Net Assets and Own 1.3 0.8 5 Funds came into force on 1 January 2016.
Solvency II requires European 6 insurers to calculate regulatory capital adequacy at the level of both Estimated Solvency II Own Funds 24.7 24.0 individual regulated subsidiaries and in aggregate at Group level 1 Includes 1.9 billion 2016: 2.0 billion of goodwill and 7.9 billion 2016: 8.0 billion of other intangible assets comprising acquired value of in-force business of 3.3 billion 2016: 3.9 billion, deferred acquisition using a consistent prudential regulatory framework.
The Aviva costs net of deferred income of 2.9 billion 2016: 2.5 billion and other intangibles of 1.7 billion 2016: Group is regulated on a Solvency II basis and the Group Solvency II 1.6 billion.
2 Includes the adjustments required to reflect market consistent principles under Solvency II whereby nonposition reflects the consolidation of all underlying legal entities, insurance assets and liabilities are measured using market value and liabilities arising from insurance contracts are valued on a best estimate basis using market-implied assumptions.
including non-EEA subsidiaries, under Solvency II.
3 Net deferred tax includes the tax effect of all other reconciling items in the table above which are shown The Solvency II regime is underpinned by market-consistent gross of tax.
4 The 31 December 2016 Solvency II position includes the pro forma impacts of the disposal of Avivas 50% principles whereby non-insurance assets and liabilities are typically shareholding in Antarius to Sogecap, which completed on 5 April 2017 0.1 billion and an anticipated measured using market value and liabilities arising from insurance future change to UK tax rules restricting the tax relief that can be claimed in respect of tax losses 0.1 billion.
However, under the amended tax rules published on 13 July 2017, this restriction will not be contracts which are valued on a best estimate basis using marketmaterial, and as a result no corresponding pro forma impact is included in the estimated 31 December 2017 Solvency II position.
The 31 December 2016 Solvency II position also includes an adverse impact of a implied assumptions.
In addition, a risk margin is required to be notional reset of the transitional measure on technical provisions TMTP to reflect interest rates at 31 held in respect of insurance contract liabilities to represent the December 2016 of 0.4 billion.
The net pro forma impact on Own Funds arising from disposals of Friends Provident International Limited and the Italian joint venture Avipop Assicurazioni S. p. A in 2017 is nil.
additional amount an insurer would be expected to pay to transfer 5 Regulatory adjustments to bridge from Solvency II Net Assets to Own Funds include recognition of its obligations to another insurer.
The combination of best estimate subordinated debt capital and non-controlling interests.
6 The estimated Solvency II position represents the shareholder view.
It excludes the contribution to Group liabilities and the risk margin is referred to as technical provisions.
SCR and Group Own Funds of fully ring-fenced with-profits funds 3.3 billion 2016: 2.9 billion and staff pension schemes in surplus 1.5 billion 2016: 1.1 billion these exclusions have no impact on Solvency II Subject to regulatory approval, insurers may utilise a transitional surplus.
measure which spreads the increase in technical provisions arising as a result of the implementation of Solvency II over a period of A number of key performance metrics relating to Solvency II are sixteen years from 1 January 2016.
During this year the transitional utilised to measure and monitor the Groups performance and measures were utilised by three entities across the Aviva Group.
No financial strength: insurance undertakings within the Group use the transitional The Solvency II cover ratio is an indicator of the Groups balance measure on risk-free interest rates.
sheet strength which is derived from own funds divided by the Available capital resources determined under Solvency II are SCR using a shareholder view which excludes the contribution of referred to as own funds.
This includes the excess of assets over fully ring fenced with-profits funds and staff pension schemes in liabilities in the Solvency II balance sheet calculated on best surplus.
These adjustments have no impact on the Groups estimate, market consistent assumptions and net of transitional Solvency II surplus.
measures on technical provisions, subordinated liabilities that Operating Capital Generation OCG is the Solvency II surplus qualify as capital under Solvency II, and off-balance sheet own movement in the period due to operating items including the funds.
impact of new business, expected investment returns on existing The Solvency II regime requires insurers to hold own funds in business, operating variances, non-economic assumption excess of the Solvency Capital Requirement SCR.
The SCR is changes and non-recurring capital actions.
It excludes economic calculated at Group level using a risk based capital model which is variances, economic assumption changes and integration and calibrated to reflect the cost of mitigating the risk of insolvency to a restructuring costs which are included in non-operating capital 99.5% confidence level over a one year time horizon equivalent to generation.
Underlying OCG is the component of the OCG which a 1 in 200 year event against financial and non-financial shocks.
As excludes the effect of non-recurring capital actions and nona number of subsidiaries utilise the standard formula rather than a economic assumption changes and is therefore considered to be risk based capital model to assess capital requirements, the overall more representative of the long-term trend.
Aviva Group SCR is calculated using a partial internal model, and it The Solvency II value of new business VNB represents the is shown after the impact of diversification benefit.
increase in own funds arising from business written in the period, The Solvency II Own Funds position is shown inclusive of pro with adjustments made to i include VNB not included in Solvency forma adjustments to align it with the capital information presented II e. g. UK and Asia Healthcare business, retail fund management to management internally.
Pro forma adjustments are made when, business and UK Equity Release business ii remove the impact of in the opinion of the Directors, the cover ratio does not fully reflect contract boundaries and iii include a look through to the value the effect of transactions or capital actions that are known as at of profits arising in service companies which would otherwise be each reporting date.
Such adjustments may be required in respect excluded from Solvency II.
These adjustments are considered to of planned acquisitions and disposals, group reorganisations and reflect a more realistic basis than the prudential Solvency II rules.
adjustments to the Solvency II valuation basis arising from changes The VNB is derived from the present value of projected pre-tax to the underlying Regulations or updated interpretations provided distributable profits generated by new business plus a risk by EIOPA.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 242 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Alternative Performance Measures Continued Summary of Solvency II position Additional information relating to the component parts of these Solvency II key performance metrics is included below.
The 2017 2016 bn bn information in the following sections in respect of Solvency II is 1,2, 3 estimated and is therefore subject to change.
Own Funds 24.7 24.0 1,2, 3,4 Solvency Capital Requirement 12.5 12.7 2,3 Solvency II position Estimated Solvency II Surplus at 31 December 12.2 11.3 The Solvency II position disclosed is based on a shareholder view.
1,2, 3 Estimated Shareholder Cover Ratio 198% 189% This excludes the contribution to Group Solvency Capital 1 The estimated Solvency II position represents the shareholder view.
This excludes the contribution to Group Requirement SCR and Group Own Funds of fully ring fenced withSolvency Capital Requirement SCR and Group Own Funds of fully ring fenced with-profits funds 3.3 billion 2016: 2.9 billion and staff pension schemes in surplus 1.5 billion 2016: 1.1 billion.
These exclusions have profits funds 3.3 billion at 31 December 2017 and staff pension no impact on Solvency II surplus.
2 The estimated Solvency II position includes the pro forma impacts of the disposals of Friends Provident schemes in surplus 1.5 billion at 31 December 2017.
These International Limited 0.1 billion increase to surplus and the Italian joint venture Avipop Assicurazioni S. p. A exclusions have no impact on Solvency II surplus.
The most material 0.1 billion increase to surplus.
3 The 31 December 2016 Solvency II position includes the pro forma impacts of the disposal of Avivas 50% fully ring fenced with-profits funds and staff pension schemes are shareholding in Antarius to Sogecap, which completed on 5 April 2017 0.2 billion increase to surplus and self-supporting on a Solvency II capital basis with any surplus an anticipated future change to UK tax rules restricting the tax relief that can be claimed in respect of tax losses 0.4 billion decrease to surplus.
However, under the amended tax rules published on 13 July 2017, capital above SCR not recognised in the Group position.
The this restriction will not be material, and as a result no corresponding pro forma impact is included in the shareholder view is therefore considered by management to be estimated 31 December 2017 Solvency II position.
The 31 December 2016 Solvency II position also includes an adverse impact of a notional reset of the transitional measure on technical provisions TMTP to reflect more representative of the shareholders risk-exposure and the interest rates at 31 December 2016 0.4 billion decrease to surplus.
4 The Solvency Capital Requirement above represents the Solvency Capital Requirement after the impact of Groups ability to cover the SCR with eligible own funds.
The Solvency II risk margin is highly sensitive to movements in interest rates, which can be offset by a reset of the transitional Movement in Group Solvency II surplus measure on technical provisions 'TMTP'.
The 31 December 2016 An analysis of change in respect of the overall Group solvency Solvency II position disclosed includes a notional reset of the TMTP position, including as a result of Operating Capital Generation, is to reflect interest rates at 31 December 2016.
This presentation is in included below.
line with the Groups approach to manage its capital position Total Total assuming a dynamic TMTP in respect of the impact of interest rate 2017 2016 bn bn movements on the risk margin, as this avoids step changes to the Group Solvency II Surplus at 1 January 2017 11.3 9.7 Solvency II position that arise only when the formal TMTP reset Operating Capital Generation 2.6 3.5 points are triggered.
The estimated 31 December 2017 Solvency II Non-operating Capital Generation 0.3 1.8 position includes an estimated reset of the TMTP in line with the Dividends 1.1 1.0 regulatory requirement to reset the TMTP every two years.
This Share buy-back 0.3 TMTP has also been amortised on a straight line basis over 16 years Foreign exchange variances 0.1 0.6 from 1 January 2016 in line with the Solvency II rules.
Hybrid debt issuance repayment 0.5 0.4 Acquired divested business 0.4 0.1 The 31 December 2017 Solvency II position disclosed includes two pro forma adjustments, to reflect known or highly likely events Estimated Solvency II Surplus at 31 December 2017 12.2 11.3 materially affecting the Groups solvency position post 31 December 2017.
The adjustments consist of the disposals of Friends Provident The estimated Solvency II surplus at 31 December 2017 is 12.2 International Limited and the Italian joint venture Avipop billion, with a shareholder cover ratio of 198%.
This is an increase of Assicurazioni S. p. A.
These adjustments have been made in order to 0.9 billion compared to the 31 December 2016 surplus.
In 2017 the show a more representative view of the Groups solvency position.
beneficial impacts of Operating Capital Generation, disposals and The 31 December 2016 Solvency II Own Funds position includes foreign exchange variances have been partially offset by hybrid debt the pro forma impacts of 0.1 billion in relation to the disposal of repayment, share buy-back and the impact of the Aviva plc Avivas 50% shareholding in Antarius to Sogecap, which completed dividend.
The 2017 Operating Capital Generation includes the on 5 April 2017, and a then anticipated future change to UK tax rules beneficial impact of the transfer of the Friends Life business into the restricting the tax relief that could be claimed in respect of tax main UK life insurance fund.
The beneficial impact from divested losses announced in the Chancellor of the Exchequers Autumn businesses in 2017 includes the disposal of the Spanish joint statement of 23 November 2016, which has been removed in 2017 ventures Unicorp Vida and Caja Espana Vida and its retail life following a clarification in the 13 July 2017 Finance Bill.
insurance business Aviva Vida y Pensiones.
Also included are proforma impacts of the disposals of Friends Provident International Limited and the Italian joint venture Avipop Assicurazioni S. p. A. Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 243 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Alternative Performance Measures Continued Analysis of Solvency II Operating Capital Generation An exceptional charge of 475 million was included in 2016 An analysis of the components of Operating Capital Generation, underwriting costs as a result of the change in the Ogden discount including as a result of new business written in the period VNB, is rate from 2.5% set in 2001 to minus 0.75% in line with the presented below: announcement made by the Lord Chancellor on 27 February 2017.
This charge was excluded from this APM as it was considered that 2017 2016 bn bn the change made was one-off in nature and did not reflect the Groups underlying performance i. e. it would distort the trend in the Adjusted Solvency II VNB gross of tax and non- 0.9 1.2 controlling interests COR on a year-on-year basis.
Allowance for Solvency II contract boundary rules The definition of COR has been changed to an earned basis.
It Differences due to change in business in scope 0.2 0.2 was previously calculated on a hybrid basis: the claims ratio was on 1 Tax & Other 0.3 0.2 an earned basis with the incurred claims expressed as a percentage Solvency II Own Funds impact of new business net 0.5 0.7 of net earned premiums: while the commission and expense ratio of tax and non-controlling interests was on a written basis with written commissions and written Solvency II SCR impact of new business 0.8 0.7 expenses expressed as a percentage of net written premiums.
This Solvency II surplus impact of new business 0.1 did not consider the impact of deferred commissions and expenses, 0.2 which are included in the underwriting result.
The new method is Life earnings from existing business 2.0 1.6 2 calculated as claims incurred, earned commission and earned Life Other OCG 1.8 0.9 expenses as a percentage of net earned premiums which aligns Life Solvency II operating capital generation 2.4 3.6 better to our underwriting result.
Comparatives have been realigned GI, Health, FM & Other Solvency II OCG 0.2 0.1 for 2016 on an earned basis.
Total Solvency II operating capital generation 2.6 3.5 1 Other includes the impact of look through profits in service companies where not included in Solvency II 4.
Assets under management AUM and the reduction in value when moving to a net of non-controlling interests basis.
Assets under management represent all assets managed or 2 Other OCG includes the effect of non-recurring capital actions, non-economic assumption changes and Group diversification benefit.
administered by or on behalf of the Group, including those assets managed by third parties.
AUM include managed assets that are The Groups VNB increased by 25% to 1.2 billion 2016: 0.9 billion.
included within the Groups statement of financial position and This was primarily driven by growth of new business in the UK, those assets belonging to external clients outside the Aviva Group Europe and Asia.
which are therefore not included in the Groups statement of The UK benefitted from strong growth in volumes across all financial position.
However, average margins reduced reflecting lower AUM is monitored as this reflects the potential earnings arising margins on individual annuities and equity release.
Following a from investment interest and commission and measures the size clarification to the Solvency II rules made by the Prudential and scale of the AUM business.
Regulation Authority PRA in 2017, new business written from 1 A reconciliation of this APM to amounts appearing in the January 2016 is now reflected in the calculation of UK Lifes Groups statement of financial position where possible is shown transitional measures.
This increased the adjusted Solvency II VNB below.
and Solvency II Own Funds impact of new business and Solvency II 2017 2016 Surplus from life new business within OCG mainly for annuities bn bn business by 0.1 billion gross of tax and non-controlling interests as AUM managed on behalf of Group companies 1 at the end of 2017.
Assets included in statement of financial position Financial investments 319 310 The increase in Europe was mainly driven by a change in Investment properties 11 11 business mix towards more profitable unit-linked and protection Loans 28 25 business in France and Italy and favourable foreign exchange Cash and cash equivalents 44 39 movements, partly offset by lower volumes of with-profits business Other 1 1 in France and sale of Antarius.
Asia benefitted from higher volumes 403 386 of business in Singapore and China driven by sales growth in agency Less: third party funds included above 19 17 and broker channels and favourable foreign exchange movements.
384 369 2 AUM managed on behalf of third parties 3.
Combined operating ratio COR Aviva Investors 75 57 A financial measurement of general insurance underwriting UK Platform 20 13 profitability calculated as total underwriting costs as detailed Other 11 11 below expressed as a percentage of net earned premiums.
A COR 106 81 below 100% indicates profitable underwriting.
Total AUM 490 450 A reconciliation of the Group COR to amounts appearing in the 1 Includes assets classified as held for sale financial statements is shown below together with an explanation 2 AUM managed on behalf of third parties cannot be directly reconciled to the annual report and accounts of material reconciling items, where appropriate.
1 2017 2016 m m Incurred claims 5,856 5,536 Commissions 1,912 1,644 Expenses 901 823 Total underwriting costs including Ogden 8,669 8,003 Impact of change in Ogden discount rate 475 Total underwriting costs excluding Ogden 8,669 7,528 Net earned premiums 8,976 8,000 Combined operating ratio 96.6% 94.2% 1 The combined operating ratio is now reported on an earned basis.
Comparatives have been realigned to reflect this change.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 244 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Alternative Performance Measures Continued 5.
Net asset value NAV per share 7.
Operating expenses Net asset value NAV per share is calculated as the equity The day-to-day expenses involved in running the business are classified as operating expenses and forms part of the disclosures attributable to shareholders of Aviva plc, less preference share capital both within the consolidated statement of financial within note 6 of annual report and accounts.
position, divided by the actual number of shares in issue as at the 2017 2016 m m balance sheet date.
NAV is used to monitor the value generated by the Company in Other expenses per note 6 3,481 3,279 Amortisation and impairment per note 6 671 708 terms of the equity shareholders face value per share investment 1 Other acquisition cost per note 6 892 846 and enables comparability.
2 Claims handling costs 330 290 A reconciliation of the component parts of this APM to amounts Integration & restructuring costs per note 6 141 212 appearing in the financial statements is shown below.
3 Less other costs 113 87 2017 2016 Operating expenses 3,778 3,408 m m 1 Other acquisition cost excluding 66 million acquisition costs relating to commission on non-participating Equity attributable to shareholders of Aviva plc 17,169 17,003 investment contracts 2 Claims handling costs includes 322 million 2016: 289 million of claims handling expenses as included in Preference share capital 200 200 the claims and benefits paid, net of recoveries from reinsurers and 8 million relating to the change in Net Asset Value 16,969 16,803 claims handling provision included in the change in insurance liabilities, net of reinsurance as per note 6 of the Annual report and accounts.
Actual number of shares in issue 4,013 4,062 3 Other costs represent a reallocation of expenses to adjusting items based on managements assessment of on going maintenance of business units and includes movements in provisions set aside in respect of Net asset value per share 423p 414p ongoing regulatory compliance included in note 47 Pension deficits and other provisions 6.
Operating earnings per share EPS Operating expenses excludes impairment of goodwill, associates Operating EPS is calculated based on the Group adjusted operating and joint ventures: amortisation and impairment of other profit attributable to ordinary shareholders net of tax, deducting intangibles: amortisation and impairment of acquired value of innon-controlling interests, preference dividends, the direct capital force business: and the profit or loss on disposal and instrument DCI and tier one note coupons divided by the weighted remeasurement of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
average number of ordinary shares in issue, after deducting treasury These items principally relate to merger and acquisition activity shares.
Operating EPS is an important measure used by which we view as strategic in nature, hence they are excluded from management to determine the dividend payout ratio target and the operating profit APM as this is principally used to manage the hence a useful APM for the users of the financial statements.
performance of our operating segments.
A reconciliation of the components of this APM to amounts Integration & restructuring costs are also excluded as these are appearing in the financial statements is shown below.
The considered non-recurring and can be considered as strategic in components of operating and basic EPS are also detailed in note 14 nature.
Other acquisition costs and claims handling costs are included as these are considered to be controllable by the operating 2017 2016 m m segments and directly impact their performance.
Operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 2,429 2,304 net of tax 8.
Cash remittances Non-controlling interests 134 147 Amounts paid by our operating businesses to the Group, comprise Preference dividends 17 17 dividends and interest on internal loans.
Dividend payments by 1 Direct capital instrument and tier 1 notes 65 68 operating businesses may be subject to insurance regulations that Adjusted operating earnings 2,213 2,072 restrict the amount that can be paid.
The business monitors total Weighted average number of shares after deduction cash remittances at a group level and in each of its markets.
Net of treasury shares 4,041 4,051 cash remittances represent group cash remittances after deducting Operating EPS 54.8p 51.1p capital injections.
This metric is used in assessing the financial 1 This relates to coupon payments in respect of the DCI and tier 1 notes net of tax.
performance within the Directors bonus scorecard for remuneration purposes.
These amounts eliminate on consolidation and hence are not directly reconcilable to the Groups IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows.
Return on Equity RoE The operating RoE calculation is based on Group adjusted operating profit after tax attributable to ordinary shareholders expressed as a percentage of weighted average ordinary shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests, preference share capital and direct capital instrument and tier 1 notes.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 245
