Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 7 Finance costs This note analyses the interest costs on our borrowings which are described in note 49 and similar charges.
Finance costs comprise: 2017 2016 m m Interest expense on core structural borrowings Subordinated debt 391 387 Long term senior debt 4 1 Commercial paper 2 393 388 Interest expense on operational borrowings Amounts owed to financial institutions 34 39 Securitised mortgage loan notes at fair value 83 84 117 123 Interest on collateral received 9 10 Net finance charge on pension schemes note 48 b i 24 29 Unwind of discount on GI reserves 2 2 Extinguishment of debt 47 Other similar charges 91 74 Total finance costs 683 626 8 Long-term business economic volatility The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means that, for managements decision-making and internal performance management, the effects of short-term economic volatility are treated as adjusting items.
The Group focuses instead on a Group adjusted operating profit measure that incorporates an expected return on investments supporting its long-term business, as described below.
a Definitions Group adjusted operating profit for long-term business is based on expected investment returns on financial investments backing shareholder and policyholder funds over the reporting period, with consistent allowance for the corresponding expected movements in liabilities.
Group adjusted operating profit includes the effect of variance in experience for non-economic items, such as mortality, persistency and expenses, and the effect of changes in non-economic assumptions, where not treated as other items.
Changes due to economic items, such as market value movements and interest rate changes, which give rise to variances between actual and expected investment returns, and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed separately outside Group adjusted operating profit.
b Economic volatility The investment variances and economic assumption changes excluded from the long-term business Group adjusted operating profit are as follows: 2017 2016 Life business m m Investment variances and economic assumptions 34 379 Investment variances and economic assumption changes were 34 million positive 2016: 379 million positive.
The variance in 2017 is driven by positive variances in the UK, which are partially offset by negative variances in France.
Positive variances in the UK are mainly due to economic modelling developments implemented in 2017.
These include a one-off development to align the approach to calculating the valuation interest rate across the heritage Aviva and Friends Life portfolios and also a development to the approach to calculating the valuation interest rate for certain deferred annuity business.
Positive variances also reflect fewer than expected defaults and downgrades on corporate bonds, better than expected experience on equity release mortgages in terms of losses related to no negative equity guarantees and a reduction in the default allowances for commercial mortgages.
The negative variance in France is primarily due to an increase in life annuity pension reserves, resulting from a reduction to the discount rate cap used in the calculation of these reserves.
This economic assumption change reflects the current environment of prolonged low interest rates.
A further negative variance stems from losses realised in 2017 on derivative-based funds.
During 2017 the Group has kept its long-term assumptions for future property prices and rental income under review to allow for the possible future adverse impact of the decision for the UK to leave the European Union.
The aim has been to maintain the same allowance in these assumptions in 2017 as was included in 2016, as the impact of the Brexit process on the UK economy remains uncertain.
In 2016, investment variances and economic assumption changes were 379 million positive.
Positive variances in the UK reflected lower interest rates and narrowing credit spreads, which increased asset values more than liabilities.
In the first half of 2016 the Group revised its expectation of future property prices and rental income in light of the UK referendum vote for the UK to leave the European Union.
The adverse impact of this adjustment on the Groups equity release and commercial mortgage portfolios was broadly offset in the second half of the year as expectations for future property price and rental growth have increased.
In addition, in the UK the investment variance reflected a refined approach of assuming best estimate expected credit defaults on corporate bonds, with a resulting increase in Group adjusted operating profit in the period.
The positive variance in the UK was partially offset by negative variances in France and Italy.
The negative variance in France reflected losses on equity hedges managed on an economic basis rather than an IFRS basis and falling interest rates, while the negative variance in Italy reflected widening credit spreads.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 126 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 8 Long-term business economic volatility continued c Methodology The expected investment returns and corresponding expected movements in long-term business liabilities are calculated separately for each principal long-term business unit.
The expected return on investments for both policyholders and shareholders funds is based on opening economic assumptions applied to the expected funds under management over the reporting period.
Expected investment return assumptions are derived actively, based on market yields on risk-free fixed interest assets at the end of each financial year.
The same margins are applied on a consistent basis across the Group to gross risk-free yields, to obtain investment return assumptions for equities and properties.
Expected funds under management are equal to the opening value of funds under management, adjusted for sales and purchases during the period arising from expected operating experience.
The actual investment return is affected by differences between the actual and expected funds under management and changes in asset mix, as well as movements in interest rates.
To the extent that these differences arise from the operating experience of the long-term business, or management decisions to change asset mix, the effect is included in the Group adjusted operating profit.
The residual difference between actual and expected investment return is included in investment variances, outside Group adjusted operating profit but included in profit before tax.
The movement in liabilities included in Group adjusted operating profit reflects both the change in liabilities due to the expected return on investments and the impact of experience variances and assumption changes for non-economic items.
This would include movements in liabilities due to changes in the discount rate arising from discretionary management decisions that impact on product profitability over the lifetime of products.
The effect of differences between actual and expected economic experience on liabilities, and changes to economic assumptions used to value liabilities, are taken outside Group adjusted operating profit.
For many types of long-term business, including unit-linked and withprofits funds, movements in asset values are offset by corresponding changes in liabilities, limiting the net impact on profit.
The profit impact of economic volatility on other long-term business depends on the degree of matching of assets and liabilities, and exposure to financial options and guarantees.
d Assumptions The expected rate of investment return is determined using consistent assumptions between operations, having regard to local economic and market forecasts of investment return and asset classification under IFRS.
The principal assumptions underlying the calculation of the expected investment return for equities and properties are: Equities Properties 2017 2016 2017 2016 % % % % United Kingdom 4.8 5.5 3.3 4.0 Eurozone 4.2 4.5 2.7 3.0 The expected return on equities and properties has been calculated by reference to the ten year mid-price swap rate for an AA-rated bank in the relevant currency plus a risk premium.
The use of risk premium reflects managements long-term expectations of asset return in excess of the swap yield from investing in different asset classes.
The asset risk premiums are set out in the table below: 2017 2016 All territories % % Equity risk premium 3.5 3.5 Property risk premium 2.0 2.0 The ten year mid-price swap rates as at the start of the period are set out in the table below: 2017 2016 Territories % % United Kingdom 1.3 2.0 Eurozone 0.7 1.0 For fixed interest securities classified as fair value through profit or loss, the expected investment returns are based on average prospective yields for the actual assets held less an adjustment for credit risks assessed on a best estimate basis : this includes an adjustment for credit risk on all eurozone sovereign debt.
Where such securities are classified as available for sale, the expected investment return comprises the expected interest or dividend payments and amortisation of the premium or discount at purchase.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 127
