Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Prior period adjustments During 2017, following the launch of UK Insurance which brings together the UK Life, UK General Insurance and UK Health businesses, the Ireland Life and General Insurance businesses have been aligned to the new management structure and reported within Europe.
The UK Insurance business continues to be dealt with as two businesses, UK Life and UK General Insurance & Health, under the overall leadership of Andy Briggs, CEO of UK Insurance.
The Ireland Life and General Insurance businesses are now part of the European operations under the overall leadership of Maurice Tulloch, CEO of International Insurance.
As a result of this change, comparative information in the Reconciliation of Group adjusted operating profit to profit for the year, note 4 Segmental information and note 10 Employee information have been restated.
There is no impact on the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of changes in equity or consolidated statement of cash flows.
2 Exchange rates The Groups principal overseas operations during the year were located within the eurozone, Canada and Poland.
The results and cash flows of these operations have been translated into sterling at the average rates for the year and the assets and liabilities have been translated at the year end rates as follows: 2017 2016 Eurozone Average rate 1 equals 0.88 0.82 Period end rate 1 equals 0.89 0.85 Canada Average rate $CAD1 equals 0.60 0.56 Period end rate $CAD1 equals 0.59 0.60 Poland Average rate PLN1 equals 0.21 0.19 Period end rate PLN1 equals 0.21 0.19 3 Subsidiaries This note provides details of the acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates that the Group has made during the year, together with details of businesses held for sale at the year end and subsequent events.
a Acquisitions i Poland As a result of changes agreed by Aviva and Santander to the shareholders agreement, Aviva now controls the two joint venture companies and consolidates them with an effective date of 1 January 2017.
The change from equity accounted joint ventures to consolidated subsidiaries resulted in a fair value remeasurement gain of 16 million on the previous equity interests of 48 million and recognition of a distribution agreement within intangible assets.
ii Aviva Vietnam On 21 April 2017, Aviva plc announced the acquisition of VietinBanks entire 50% shareholding in its life insurance joint venture VietinBank Aviva Life Insurance Company Limited Aviva Vietnam for a consideration of 20 million and signing of a new life insurance distribution agreement.
Following completion of the transaction on 22 May 2017, Aviva Vietnam is now a wholly owned subsidiary, with a change in the legal entity name to Aviva Vietnam Life Insurance Company Limited.
The change from an equity accounted joint venture to consolidated subsidiary resulted in a fair value remeasurement gain of 7 million on the previous equity interest of 2 million and recognition of 18 million of goodwill and intangible assets.
iii Wealthify On 5 October 2017, Aviva announced an agreement to acquire a majority shareholding in Wealthify Group Limited, the holding company of Wealthify.
The investment is part of Avivas strategy to build customer loyalty by providing customers with a wide range of insurance and investment services all managed through the convenience and simplicity of Aviva's digital hub, MyAviva.
The transaction completed on 8 February 2018. iv Friends First On 13 November 2017, Aviva announced that it has reached an agreement to acquire Irish insurer Friends First Life Assurance Company dac Friends First for a cash consideration of 130 million approximately 116 million.
As a result of this acquisition, Aviva will become one of the largest composite insurers in Ireland, with its market share in life insurance increasing to 15%, alongside its existing leading 15% market share in general insurance.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to complete in the first quarter of 2018.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 113
