Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 44 Effect of changes in assumptions and estimates during the year Certain estimates and assumptions used in determining our liabilities for insurance and investment contract business were changed from 2016 to 2017, affecting the profit recognised for the year with an equivalent effect on liabilities.
This note analyses the effect of the changes.
This note only allows for the impact on liabilities and related assets, such as unallocated divisible surplus, reinsurance, deferred acquisition costs and AVIF, and does not allow for offsetting movements in the value of backing financial assets.
Effect on profit Effect on profit 2017 2016 m m Assumptions Long-term insurance business Interest rates 1,720 4,490 Expenses 128 48 Persistency rates 79 80 Mortality and morbidity for assurance contracts 113 11 Mortality for annuity contracts 779 294 Tax and other assumptions 2 97 Investment contracts Expenses General insurance and health business Change in discount rate assumptions 7 242 Change in expense ratio and other assumptions Total 1,040 4,384 The impact of interest rates on long-term business relates primarily to annuities in the UK including any change in credit default and reinvestment risk provisions, where a decrease in the valuation interest rate, in response to narrowing of credit spreads is partially offset by increasing risk-free rates, has increased liabilities.
Within the UK there were also two modelling changes which resulted in a reduction in reserves: an alignment of approach in calculating the valuation interest rate across the Life portfolios of 153 million and a refinement to the approach in calculating the valuation interest rate for certain deferred annuity business of 136 million.
Outside of the UK, there was a one-off impact in France due to an increase in life annuity pension reserves, resulting from a reduction to the discount rate cap used in the calculation of these reserves of 138 million.
The overall impact on profit also depends on movements in the value of assets backing the liabilities, which is not included in this disclosure.
The impact of expenses on long-term business has resulted in an increase in reserves, following a review of recent experience.
In the UK this includes a strengthening of maintenance expense reserves from harmonising the UK expense basis following the Friends Life Part VII transfer in 2017 of 89 million 2016: nil : recognition of future project expense reserves of 125 million 2016: nil : partly offset by a release due to updating the charging structure in place with Aviva Investors following the Friends Life integration of 70million 2016: 42 million and other less significant adverse movements of 13 million in 2016.
Across Europe and Asia, expense reserves have reduced by 16 million 2016: 19 million.
The impact of persistency rates on long-term business has resulted in an increase in reserves following a review of recent experience in the UK.
The impact of mortality and morbidity for assurance contracts on long-term business has resulted in a reduction in reserves following a review of recent experience, most notably for critical illness in the UK.
The impact of mortality for annuitant contracts on long-term business relates primarily to the UK.
In 2017, this has resulted in a reduction in reserves due to recognition of benefits from changes in longevity assumptions including: the impact of completing our review of the allowance for anti-selection risk of 170 million, updates reflecting our recent experience of 200 million, updates to the rate of historic and future mortality improvements, including the adoption of CMI 2016, of 340 million, and other less significant movements of 31 million.
In Ireland there was a reduction of 38 million following a review of recent experience.
In 2016 there was a release of annuitant reserves in the UK following a review of recent experience including the exposure to antiselection risk of 130 million, the adoption of the CMI 2015 mortality improvement assumptions of 153 million and other less significant movements of 11 million.
In the general insurance and health business, an adverse impact of 7 million 2016: 242 million adverse mainly arises as a result of a slight decrease in the estimated future inflation rate used to value periodic payment orders, offset by a slight decrease in the interest rates used to discount claim reserves for periodic payment orders and latent claims.
During 2016 market interest rates used to discount periodic payment orders and latent claims reduced and the estimated future inflation rate used to value periodic payment orders was increased to be consistent with market expectations.
This was, in part, offset by a change in estimate for the interest rate used to discount periodic payment orders to allow for the illiquid nature of these liabilities.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 182
