Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 41 Liability for investment contracts continued For many types of long-term business, including unit-linked and participating funds, movements in asset values are offset by corresponding changes in liabilities, limiting the net impact on profit.
The variance between actual and expected experience in 2017 of 2.1 billion is primarily driven by favourable equity returns in the UK.
The impact of assumption changes in the analysis shows the resulting movement in the carrying value of participating investment contract liabilities.
For participating business, a movement in liabilities is generally offset by a corresponding adjustment to the unallocated divisible surplus and does not impact profit.
Where assumption changes do impact profit, these are included in the effect of changes in assumptions and estimates during the year shown in note 44, together with the impact of movements in related non-financial assets.
ii Non-participating investment contracts 2017 2016 m m Carrying amount at 1 January 114,531 103,034 Provisions in respect of new business 4,484 3,222 Expected change in existing business provisions 4,427 3,481 Variance between actual and expected experience 10,115 11,105 Impact of non-economic assumption changes 2 17 Impact of economic assumption changes 1 2 Other changes in liabilities 10 334 Change in liability 10,183 11,199 1 Effect of portfolio transfers, acquisitions and disposals 4 757 Foreign exchange rate movements 277 1,065 Other movements 8 10 Carrying amount at 31 December 124,995 114,531 1 The movement during 2017 relates to the disposal of Antarius in France.
The movement during 2016 relates to the disposal of a closed book of offshore bonds business.
For unit-linked investment contracts, movements in asset values are offset by corresponding changes in liabilities, limiting the net impact on profit.
The variance between actual and expected experience in 2017 of 10 billion is primarily driven by the impact of positive equity returns in the UK.
The impact of assumption changes in the above analysis shows the resulting movement in the carrying value of non-participating investment contract liabilities.
The impacts of assumption changes on profit are included in the effect of changes in assumptions and estimates during the year shown in note 44, which combines participating and non-participating investment contracts together with the impact of movements in related non-financial assets.
42 Financial guarantees and options This note details the financial guarantees and options that the Group has given for some of our insurance and investment products.
As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group companies have given guarantees and options, including investment return guarantees, in respect of certain long-term insurance and fund management products.
Further information on assumptions is given in notes 40 and 41. a UK Life with-profits business The Groups UK with-profits liabilities are evaluated by reference to FRS27, which was grandfathered under IFRS 4, prior to the adoption of Solvency II.
Under the PRAs rules, provision for guarantees and options within realistic liabilities are measured using market-consistent stochastic models.
A stochastic approach includes measuring the time value of guarantees and options, which represents the additional cost arising from uncertainty surrounding future economic conditions.
The material guarantees and options to which this provision relates are: i Maturity value and death benefit guarantees Substantially all of the conventional with-profits business and a significant proportion of unitised with-profits business have minimum maturity and in some cases death benefit values reflecting the sums assured plus declared annual bonus.
In addition, the guarantee fund has offered maturity value guarantees on certain unit-linked products.
For some unitised with-profits life contracts the amount paid after the fifth policy anniversary is guaranteed to be at least as high as the premium paid increased in line with the rise in RPI CPI.
ii No market valuation reduction MVR guarantees For unitised business, there are a number of circumstances where a no MVR guarantee is applied, for example on certain policy anniversaries, guaranteeing that no market value reduction will be applied to reflect the difference between the accumulated value of units and the market value of the underlying assets.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 178 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 42 Financial guarantees and options continued iii Guaranteed annuity options The Groups UK with-profits funds have written individual and group pension contracts which contain guaranteed annuity rate options GAOs, where the policyholder has the option to take the benefits from a policy in the form of an annuity based on guaranteed conversion rates.
The Group also has exposure to GAOs and similar options on deferred annuities.
Realistic liabilities for GAOs in the UK with-profits funds were 2,186 million at 31 December 2017 2016: 2,456 million.
With the exception of the New With-profits Sub Fund NWPSF, movements in the realistic liabilities in the with-profits funds are offset by a corresponding movement in the unallocated divisible surplus, with no net impact on IFRS profit.
Realistic liabilities for GAOs in the NWPSF were 206 million at 31 December 2017 2016: 225 million.
iv Guaranteed minimum pension The Groups UK with-profits funds also have certain policies that contain a guaranteed minimum level of pension as part of the condition of the original transfer from state benefits to the policy.
v Guaranteed minimum maturity payments on mortgage endowments In addition, the with-profits fund companies have made promises to certain policyholders in relation to their with-profits mortgage endowments.
Top-up payments will be made on these policies at maturity to meet the mortgage value up to a maximum of the 31 December 1999 illustrated shortfall.
b UK Life non-profit business The Groups UK non-profit funds are evaluated by reference to statutory reserving rules, which are based on the UK regulatory requirements grandfathered under IFRS 4, prior to the adoption of Solvency II, adjusted to remove certain regulatory reserves and margins in assumptions, notably for annuity business.
i Guaranteed annuity options Similar options to those written on with-profits business have been written in relation to non-profit products.
Provision for these guarantees does not materially differ from a provision based on a market-consistent stochastic model, and amounts to 100 million at 31 December 2017 2016:121 million.
ii Guaranteed unit price on certain products Certain unit-linked pension products linked to long-term life insurance funds provide policyholders with guaranteed benefits at retirement or death.
No additional provision is made for this guarantee as the investment management strategy for these funds is designed to ensure that the guarantee can be met from the fund, mitigating the impact of large falls in investment values and interest rates.
iii Return of Premium guarantees German pension products sold in Friends Life between 2006 and 2014 are subject to a Return of Premium guarantee whereby the product guarantees to return the maximum of the unit fund value or total premiums paid before deductions.
Provisions for this guarantee are calculated using a market-consistent stochastic model and amount to 132 million at 31 December 2017 2016: 145 million.
c Overseas life businesses In addition to guarantees written in the Groups UK life businesses, our overseas businesses have also written contracts containing guarantees and options.
Details of the significant guarantees and options provided by overseas life businesses are set out below.
i France Guaranteed surrender value and guaranteed minimum bonuses Aviva France has written a number of contracts with such guarantees.
The guaranteed surrender value is the accumulated value of the contract including accrued bonuses.
Bonuses are based on accounting income from amortised bond portfolios, where the duration of bond portfolios is set in relation to the expected duration of the policies, plus income and releases from realised gains on equity-type investments.
Policy reserves are equal to guaranteed surrender values.
Local statutory accounting envisages the establishment of a reserve, Provision pour Alas Financiers PAF, when accounting income is less than 125% of guaranteed minimum credited returns.
No PAF was established at full year 2017.
The most significant of these contracts is the AFER Eurofund which has total liabilities of 38 billion at 31 December 2017 2016: 37 billion.
The guaranteed minimum bonus is agreed between Aviva France and the AFER association at the end of each year, in respect of the following year.
The bonus was 2.40% for 2017 2016: 2.65% compared with an accounting income from the fund of 2.89% 2016: 3.14%.
Non-AFER contracts with guaranteed surrender values had liabilities of 11 billion at 31 December 2017 2016: 19 billion and all guaranteed annual bonus rates are between 0% and 4.5%.
The decrease in Non-AFER contracts is mainly due to the sale of Antarius during the year.
For non-AFER business the accounting income return exceeded guaranteed bonus rates in 2017.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 179
