Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company incorporated iii Amendments to IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, together with its Entities subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Aviva transacts life The amendments to IFRS 12, which form part of the IASBs assurance and long-term savings business, fund management and annual improvements process for the 2014-2016 cycle, clarify most classes of general insurance and health business through its existing guidance.
The adoption of these amendments does subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and branches in the UK, not have an impact on the Groups consolidated financial Ireland, continental Europe, Canada, Asia and other countries statements as the clarifications are consistent with our throughout the world.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Standards, interpretations and amendments to published these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have standards that are not yet effective and have not been adopted been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise early by the Group or the Company stated.
The following new standards, amendments to existing standards have been issued, are not yet effective and have not been adopted A Basis of preparation early by the Group or the Company: The consolidated financial statements and those of the Company have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance i IFRS 9, Financial Instruments including amendments to with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts by the European Union EU, and those parts of the Companies Act In July 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2006 applicable to those reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated which will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost and Measurement.
The standard incorporates new convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings, classification and measurements requirements for financial investment property, available-for-sale financial assets, and assets, the introduction of an expected credit loss impairment financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative model which will replace the incurred loss model of IAS 39, instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
and new hedge accounting requirements.
Under IFRS 9, all In accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, the Group has financial assets will be measured at either amortised cost or applied existing accounting practices for insurance and fair value.
The basis of classification will depend on the participating investment contracts, modified as appropriate to business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
Further of the financial assets.
The standard retains most of IAS 39s details are given in accounting policy G. requirements for financial liabilities except for those Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups designated at fair value through profit or loss whereby that entities are measured in the currency of the primary economic part of the fair value changes attributable to own credit is to environment in which that entity operates the functional currency.
be recognised in other comprehensive income instead of the The consolidated financial statements are stated in pounds sterling, income statement.
The hedge accounting requirements are which is the Companys functional and presentational currency.
more closely aligned with risk management practices and Unless otherwise noted, the amounts shown in these financial follow a more principle based approach.
statements are in millions of pounds sterling m. The separate In September 2016, the IASB published amendments to financial statements of the Company are on pages 229 to 238.
IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts that address the accounting Comparative figures have been restated for adjustments as consequences of the application of IFRS 9 to insurers prior to detailed in note 1. implementing the new accounting standard for insurance contracts, IFRS 17, which replaces IFRS 4.
The amendments New standards, interpretations and amendments to published introduce two options for insurers: the deferral approach and standards that have been adopted by the Group the overlay approach.
The deferral approach provides an The Group has adopted the following amendments to standards entity, if eligible, with a temporary exemption from applying which became effective for the annual reporting period beginning IFRS 9 until 1 January 2021 at the latest.
The overlay approach on 1 January 2017. allows an entity to remove from profit or loss the effects of some of the accounting mismatches that may occur before i Narrow scope amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred the new insurance contracts standard is applied.
Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses The Group is eligible to apply the deferral approach as its The revisions to IAS 12 Income Taxes clarify the accounting for activities are predominantly connected with insurance, as deferred tax assets on unrealised losses and state that deferred defined by the amendments to IFRS 4.
The Group has opted to tax assets should be recognised when an asset is measured at apply this deferral from 2018.
The impact of the adoption of fair value and that fair value is below the assets tax base.
It also IFRS 9 on the Groups consolidated financial statements will, provides further clarification on the estimation of probable to a large extent, have to take into account the interaction future taxable profits that may support the recognition of with the new insurance contracts standard IFRS 17.
As such, it deferred tax assets.
is not possible to fully assess the effect of the adoption of IFRS The adoption of this amendment does not have an impact 9.
IFRS 9 has been endorsed by the EU.
on the Groups consolidated financial statements as the IFRS 9 is effective for the Company from 1 January 2018 as clarifications are consistent with our existing interpretation.
it is not eligible to apply the deferral option available to insurers.
The adoption of IFRS 9 is not expected to have a ii Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative significant impact on the Companys balance sheet.
The amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, which form part of the IASBs Disclosure Initiative, require disclosure of the ii IFRS 17, Insurance Contracts movements in liabilities arising from financing activities with In May 2017, the IASB published IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, a cash and non-cash changes presented separately.
comprehensive new accounting standard for insurance The adoption of this amendment does not have an impact contracts covering recognition and measurement, on the Groups consolidated financial statements as the Group presentation and disclosure.
Once effective, IFRS 17 will already voluntarily discloses this information in note 49. replace IFRS 4 that was issued in 2005.
IFRS 17 applies to all Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 93 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued types of insurance contracts as well as to certain guarantees Entities and IAS 28 Investments in Associates.
The amendments and financial instruments with discretionary participation to IFRS 1 and IAS 28 are effective for annual reporting periods features.
In contrast to the requirements in IFRS 4, which are beginning on or after 1 January 2018: the amendment to IFRS largely based on grandfathering of previous local accounting 12 for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 policies, IFRS 17 provides a comprehensive and consistent January 2017.
These amendments have been endorsed by the approach to insurance contracts.
general model, supplemented by a specific adaption for contracts with direct participation features the variable fee vii Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property approach and a simplified approach the premium allocation In December 2016, the IASB published amendments to IAS 40 approach mainly for short-duration contracts.
The amendments are effective from 1 The main features of the new accounting model for January 2018 and have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
insurance contracts are, as follows: the measurement of the present value of future cash flows incorporating an explicit risk viii IFRIC 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance adjustment and remeasured every reporting period the Consideration fulfilment cash flows : a contractual service margin that is In December 2016, the IASB published IFRIC 22 Foreign equal and opposite to any day one gain in the fulfilment cash Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration.
The flows of a group of contracts, representing the unearned profit standard is effective for annual reporting beginning on or after of the insurance contracts to be recognised in profit or loss 1 January 2018 and has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
over the service period coverage period : the presentation of insurance revenue and insurance service expenses in the ix IFRIC 23, Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments statement of comprehensive income based on the concept of In June 2017, the IASB published IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over insurance services provided during the period: and extensive Income Tax Treatments.
The standard is effective for annual disclosures to provide information on the recognised amounts reporting beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and has not yet from insurance contracts and the nature and extent of risks been endorsed by the EU.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 17 has yet to be fully x Amendments to IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or assessed by the Group but it is expected there will be Settlement significant impacts relating to the measurement and In February 2018, the IASB published Plan Amendment, presentation of the contracts in scope of the standard.
This Curtailment or Settlement Amendments to IAS 19.
The standard applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or amendments are effective for annual reporting beginning on after 1 January 2021 and has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
or after 1 January 2019 and have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
iii IFRS 16, Leases In January 2016, the IASB published IFRS 16 Leases which will B Group adjusted operating profit replace IAS 17 Leases.
IFRS 16 introduces a definition of a The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means lease with a single lessee accounting model eliminating the that, for managements decision-making and internal performance classification of either operating or finance leases.
Lessees will management of our operating segments, the Group focuses on be required to account for all leases in a similar manner to the Group adjusted operating profit, a non-GAAP alternative current finance lease accounting recognising lease assets and performance measure APM which is not bound by IFRS.
The APM liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Lessor incorporates the expected return on investments which supports its accounting remains similar to current practice.
The impact of long-term and non-long-term businesses.
the adoption of IFRS 16 has yet to be fully assessed by the Group adjusted operating profit for long-term business is based Group.
This standard applies to annual reporting periods on expected investment returns on financial investments backing beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and has been endorsed shareholder and policyholder funds over the reporting period, with by the EU.
allowance for the corresponding expected movements in liabilities.
Variances between actual and expected investment returns, and the The following new standards, amendments to existing standards impact of changes in economic assumptions on liabilities, are have been issued, are not yet effective and are not expected to have disclosed separately outside Group adjusted operating profit.
For a significant impact on the Groups consolidated financial non-long-term business, the total investment income, including statements: realised and unrealised gains, is analysed between that calculated using a longer-term return and short-term fluctuations from that iv IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers level.
The exclusion of short-term realised and unrealised In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts investment gains and losses from the Group adjusted operating with Customers.
This standard applies to annual reporting profit APM reflects the long-term nature of much of our business and periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and has been presents separately the operating profit APM which is used in endorsed by the EU.
managing the performance of our operating segments from the impact of economic factors.
Further details of this analysis and the v Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of assumptions used are given in notes 8 and 9.
Share-based Payment Transactions Group adjusted operating profit is presented before and after In June 2016, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 2 Shareintegration and restructuring costs with further details of based Payment.
The amendments are effective from 1 January restructuring costs provided in note 6.
2018 and have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
Group adjusted operating profit also excludes impairment of goodwill, associates and joint ventures: amortisation and vi Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 impairment of other intangibles: amortisation and impairment of These improvements consist of amendments to three IFRSs acquired value of in-force business: and the profit or loss on including IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial disposal and remeasurement of subsidiaries, joint ventures and Reporting Standards, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other associates.
These items principally relate to mergers and acquisition Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 94 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued Accounting activity which we view as strategic in nature, hence they are Item Critical accounting estimates policy Note excluded from the operating profit APM as this is principally used to past claims experience can be used manage the performance of our operating segments when reporting as a basis to project future claims to the Groups chief operating decision maker.
Other items are those estimated using a range of standard items that, in the Directors view, are required to be separately actuarial claims projection disclosed by virtue of their nature or incidence to enable a full techniques.
understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Details of these Acquired value AVIF is recognised, amortised and O 17 items, including an explanation of the rationale for their exclusion, of in-force tested for impairment by reference business AVIF to the present value of estimated are provided in the Other information section.
Other intangible The Group adjusted operating profit APM should be viewed as assets assets are recognised and tested for complementary to IFRS GAAP measures.
It is important to consider impairment using an income Group adjusted operating profit and profit before tax together to approach method.
Significant understand the performance of the business in the period.
estimates include forecast cash flows, discount rates and determination of useful lives.
C Critical accounting policies and the use of Fair value of Where quoted market prices are not F, T, U 22,26 estimates financial available, valuation techniques are Critical accounting policies instruments used to value financial instruments The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to select and investment and investment property.
These accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that property include broker quotes and models affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, using both observable and unobservable market inputs.
The consolidated statement of financial position, other primary valuation techniques involve statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements.
judgement with regard to the The Audit Committee reviews the reasonableness of judgements valuation models used and the and assumptions applied and the appropriateness of significant inputs to these models can lead to a accounting policies.
The significant issues considered by the range of plausible valuation for Committee in the year are included within the Audit Committee financial investments.
Deferred Management use estimation X 28 The following accounting policies are those that have the most acquisition techniques to determine the costs amortisation profile and impairment significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial test by reference to the present statements, with those judgements involving estimation value of estimated future profits.
These tests are sensitive to expense and lapse assumptions.
Item Critical accounting judgement Accounting policy Consolidation Assessment of whether the Group controls D the underlying entities including During the year management reassessed the critical estimates consideration of its decision making previously provided and, based on their assessment of qualitative authority and rights to the variable returns and quantitative risk factors, resolved to remove goodwill from the entity impairment, impairment of financial assets, provisions and Insurance and Assessment of the significance of insurance G contingent liabilities, pension obligations and deferred income participating risk transferred to the Group in taxes.
investment determining whether a contract should be contract accounted for as insurance or investment liabilities contract D Consolidation principles Subsidiaries Financial Classification of investments including the T Subsidiaries are those entities over which the Group has control.
investments application of the fair value option The Group controls an investee if and only if the Group has all of the following: All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current power over the investee, facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge and exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results may the investee, and differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
The table below sets out those items considered particularly susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in relevant accounting policy and note disclosures.
assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: the Accounting purpose and design of an investee, relevant activities, substantive Item Critical accounting estimates policy Note and protective rights, and voting rights and potential voting rights.
Measurement of Principal assumptions used in the L 40b The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if insurance and calculation of life insurance and participating participating investment contract facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or investment liabilities include those in respect of more of the three elements of control.
Subsidiaries are consolidated contract annuitant mortality, expenses, from the date the Group obtains control and are excluded from liabilities valuation interest rates and credit consolidation from the date the Group loses control.
All default allowances on corporate intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised surpluses and bonds and other non-sovereign deficits on transactions between Group companies have been credit assets.
Principal assumptions used in the eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned on calculation of general insurance and acquisition to ensure consistency with Group policies.
health liabilities include the discount The Group is required to use the acquisition method of rates used in determining our latent accounting for business combinations.
Under this method, the claim and structures settlements Group recognises identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, and the assumption that liabilities at fair value, and any non-controlling interest in the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 95 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group has the option agreement are considered along with other factors that determine to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair control, as outlined above.
Where the Group exerts control over a value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net PUT or a PLP, it has been treated as a subsidiary and its results, assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair assets and liabilities have been consolidated.
Where the partnership value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as is managed by an agreement such that there is joint control goodwill see accounting policy O below.
Acquisition-related costs between the parties, notwithstanding that the Groups partnership are expensed as incurred.
share in the PLP including its indirect stake via the relevant PUT and Transactions with non-controlling interests that lead to changes GP may be lower or higher than 50%, such PUTs and PLPs have in the ownership interests in a subsidiary but do not result in a loss been classified as joint ventures see below.
Where the Group has of control are treated as equity transactions.
significant influence over the PUT or PLP, as defined in the following section, the PUT or PLP is classified as an associate.
Where the Merger accounting and the merger reserve Group holds non-controlling interests in PLPs, with no significant Prior to 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of IFRS, influence or control over their associated GPs, the relevant certain significant business combinations were accounted for using investments are carried at fair value through profit or loss within the pooling of interests method or merger accounting, which financial investments.
treats the merged groups as if they had been combined throughout the current and comparative accounting periods.
Merger accounting Associates and joint ventures principles for these combinations gave rise to a merger reserve in Associates are entities over which the Group has significant the consolidated statement of financial position, being the influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the difference between the nominal value of new shares issued by the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not Parent Company for the acquisition of the shares of the subsidiary control or joint control.
Generally, it is presumed that the Group has and the subsidiarys own share capital and share premium account.
significant influence if it has between 20% and 50% of voting rights.
These transactions have not been restated, as permitted by the IFRS Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the Group and other 1 transitional arrangements.
parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the The merger reserve is also used where more than 90% of the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of relief under the Companies Act 1985 and, from 1 October 2009, the the parties sharing control.
In a number of these, the Groups share Companies Act 2006. of the underlying assets and liabilities may be greater or less than 50% but the terms of the relevant agreements make it clear that Investment vehicles control is not exercised.
Such jointly controlled entities are referred In several countries, the Group has invested in a number of to as joint ventures in these financial statements.
specialised investment vehicles such as Open-ended Investment Gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and Companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These invest mainly in equities, joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in bonds, cash and cash equivalents, and properties, and distribute the associates and joint ventures.
Losses are also eliminated, unless most of their income.
The Groups percentage ownership in these the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset vehicles can fluctuate from day to day according to the Groups and transferred between entities.
When assessing control over Other than investments in investment vehicles which are carried investment vehicles, along with the factors determining control at fair value through profit or loss, investments in associates and outlined above, the Group considers the scope of its decisionjoint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of making authority including its ability to direct the relevant activities accounting.
Under this method, the cost of the investment in a given of the fund and exposure to variability of returns from the associate or joint venture, together with the Groups share of that perspective of an investor in the fund and of the asset manager.
In entitys post-acquisition changes to shareholders funds, is included addition, the Group assesses rights held by other parties including as an asset in the consolidated statement of financial position.
As substantive removal rights that may affect the Groups ability to explained in accounting policy O, the cost includes goodwill direct the relevant activities and indicate that the Group does not recognised on acquisition.
The Groups share of their posthave power.
Where the Group is deemed to control such vehicles, acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement they are consolidated, with the interests of parties other than Aviva and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is being classified as liabilities.
These appear as Net asset value recognised in reserves.
Equity accounting is discontinued when the attributable to unitholders in the consolidated statement of Group no longer has significant influence or joint control over the financial position.
Where the Group does not control such vehicles, and these If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture investments are held by its insurance or investment funds, they are equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking, the Group does not carried at fair value through profit or loss within financial recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made investments in the consolidated statement of financial position, in payments on behalf of the entity.
accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Companys investments As part of their investment strategy, long-term business In the Companys statement of financial position, subsidiaries, policyholder funds have invested in a number of property limited associates and joint ventures are stated at their fair values, partnerships PLPs, either directly or via property unit trusts PUTs, estimated using applicable valuation models underpinned by the through a mix of capital and loans.
The PLPs are managed by Companys market capitalisation.
These investments are classified general partners GPs, in which the long-term business shareholder as available for sale AFS financial assets, with changes in their fair companies hold equity stakes and which themselves hold nominal value being recognised in other comprehensive income and stakes in the PLPs.
The PUTs are managed by a Group subsidiary.
recorded in a separate investment valuation reserve within equity.
Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates or other financial investments depends on whether the Group is deemed to have control or joint control over the PUTs and PLPs shareholdings in the GPs and the terms of each partnership Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 96 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued supported wholly by observable market data or the transaction is E Foreign currency translation closed out or otherwise matured.
Income statements and cash flows of foreign entities are translated If an asset or a liability measured at fair value has a bid price and into the Groups presentation currency at average exchange rates for an ask price, the price within the bid-ask spread that is most the year while their statements of financial position are translated at representative of fair value in the circumstances is used to measure the year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising from the fair value.
translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are G Product classification recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to the Insurance contracts are defined as those containing significant currency translation reserve within equity.
On disposal of a foreign insurance risk if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer entity, such exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve to make significant additional payments in any scenario, excluding and are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or scenarios that lack commercial substance, at the inception of the loss on sale.
The cumulative translation differences were deemed to contract.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights be zero at the transition date to IFRS.
and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Contracts can be Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Gains and losses becomes significant.
Any contracts not considered to be insurance resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the contracts under IFRS are classified as investment contracts.
Some translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign insurance and investment contracts contain a discretionary currencies, are recognised in the income statement.
participation feature, which is a contractual right to receive Translation differences on debt securities and other monetary additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
These financial assets measured at fair value and designated as held at fair are referred to as participating contracts.
value through profit or loss FVTPL see accounting policy T are As noted in accounting policy A, insurance contracts and included in foreign exchange gains and losses in the income participating investment contracts in general continue to be statement.
For monetary financial assets designated as AFS, measured and accounted for under existing accounting practices at translation differences are calculated as if they were carried at the later of the date of transition to IFRS grandfathered or the amortised cost and so are recognised in the income statement, date of the acquisition of the entity, in accordance with IFRS 4.
IFRS while foreign exchange differences arising from fair value gains and accounting for insurance contracts in UK companies was losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and included grandfathered at the date of transition to IFRS and determined in in the investment valuation reserve within equity.
Translation accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by differences on non-monetary items, such as equities which are the Association of British Insurers subsequently withdrawn by the designated as FVTPL, are reported as part of the fair value gain or ABI in 2015. loss, whereas such differences on AFS equities are included in the In certain businesses, the accounting policies or accounting investment valuation reserve.
estimates have been changed, as permitted by IFRS 4 and IAS 8 respectively, to remeasure designated insurance liabilities to reflect current market interest rates and changes to regulatory capital F Fair value measurement requirements.
When accounting policies or accounting estimates Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid have been changed, and adjustments to the measurement basis to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market have occurred, the financial statements of that year will have participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that disclosed the impacts accordingly.
One such example is our price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation adoption of Financial Reporting Standard 27 Life Assurance FRS 27 technique.
This presumes that the transaction takes place in the which was issued by the UKs Accounting Standards Board ASB in principal or most advantageous market under current market December 2004 subsequently withdrawn by the ASB in 2015. conditions.
Fair value is a market-based measure and in the absence of observable market prices in an active market, it is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing H Premiums earned the asset or liability.
Premiums on long-term insurance contracts and participating The fair value of a non-financial asset is determined based on its investment contracts are recognised as income when receivable, highest and best use from a market participants perspective.
When except for investment-linked premiums which are accounted for using this approach, the Group takes into account the assets use when the corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single that is physically possible, legally permissible and financially premium business, this is the date from which the policy is effective.
For regular premium contracts, receivables are recognised at the The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at date when payments are due.
Premiums are shown before initial recognition is normally the transaction price i. e. the fair value deduction of commission and before any sales-based taxes or of the consideration given or received.
In certain circumstances, the duties.
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt of premiums, then fair value at initial recognition may differ from the transaction price.
all the related premium income accrued but not received from the If the fair value is evidenced by comparison with other observable date they are deemed to have lapsed is offset against premiums.
current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without General insurance and health premiums written reflect business modification or repackaging, or is based on a valuation technique incepted during the year, and exclude any sales-based taxes or whose variables include only data from observable markets, then duties.
Unearned premiums are those proportions of the premiums the difference between the fair value at initial recognition and the written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the statement of transaction price is recognised as a gain or loss in the income financial position date.
Unearned premiums are calculated on either statement.
When unobservable market data has a significant impact a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
Premiums collected by on the valuation of financial instruments, the difference between the intermediaries, but not yet received, are assessed based on fair value at initial recognition and the transaction price is not estimates from underwriting or past experience, and are included in recognised immediately in the income statement, but deferred and premiums written.
recognised in the income statement on an appropriate basis over Deposits collected under investment contracts without a the life of the instrument but no later than when the valuation is discretionary participation feature non-participating contracts are not accounted for through the income statement, except for the fee Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 97 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued income covered in accounting policy I and the investment income General insurance and health claims incurred include all losses attributable to those contracts, but are accounted for directly occurring during the year, whether reported or not, related handling through the statement of financial position as an adjustment to the costs, a reduction for the value of salvage and other recoveries, and investment contract liability.
any adjustments to claims outstanding from previous years.
Claims handling costs include internal and external costs incurred in connection with the negotiation and settlement of I Other investment contract fee revenue claims.
Internal costs include all direct expenses of the claims Investment contract policyholders are charged fees for policy department and any part of the general administrative costs directly administration, investment management, surrenders or other attributable to the claims function.
The fees may be for fixed amounts or vary with the amounts being managed, and will generally be charged as an Long-term business provisions adjustment to the policyholders balance.
The fees are recognised Under current IFRS requirements, insurance and participating as revenue in the period in which they are collected unless they investment contract liabilities are measured using accounting relate to services to be provided in future periods, in which case they policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing are deferred and recognised as the service is provided.
accounting practices, with the exception of liabilities remeasured to Initiation and other front-end fees fees that are assessed reflect current market interest rates to be consistent with the value against the policyholder balance as consideration for origination of of the backing assets, and those relating to UK with-profits and nonthe contract are charged on some non-participating investment profit contracts.
and investment fund management contracts.
Where the investment The long-term business provisions are calculated separately for contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees are deferred and each life operation, based either on local regulatory requirements or recognised over the expected term of the policy by an adjustment to existing local GAAP at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or the effective yield.
Where the investment contract is measured at fair the date of the acquisition of the entity : and actuarial principles value, the front-end fees that relate to the provision of investment consistent with those applied in each local market.
Each calculation management services are deferred and recognised as the services represents a determination within a range of possible outcomes, are provided.
where the assumptions used in the calculations depend on the circumstances prevailing in each life operation.
The principal J Other fee and commission income assumptions are disclosed in note 40 b.
For the UK with-profit Other fee and commission income consists primarily of fund funds, FRS 27 required liabilities to be calculated on the realistic management fees, distribution fees from mutual funds, basis adjusted to remove the shareholders share of future bonuses.
commissions on reinsurance ceded, commission revenue from the FRS 27 was grandfathered from UK regulatory requirements prior to sale of mutual fund shares and transfer agent fees for shareholder the adoption of Solvency II.
For UK non-profit insurance contracts, record keeping.
Reinsurance commissions receivable are deferred in the liabilities are calculated using the gross premium valuation the same way as acquisition costs, as described in accounting policy method.
This method uses the amount of contractual premiums X.
All other fee and commission income is recognised as the services payable and includes explicit assumptions for interest and discount are provided.
rates, mortality and morbidity, persistency and future expenses.
These assumptions are set on a prudent basis and can vary by K Net investment income contract type and reflect current and expected future experience.
Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents These estimates depend upon the outcome of future events and receivable for the year, movements in amortised cost on debt may need to be revised as circumstances change.
The liabilities are securities, realised gains and losses, and unrealised gains and losses based on the UK regulatory requirements prior to the adoption of on FVTPL investments as defined in accounting policy T. Dividends Solvency II, adjusted to remove certain regulatory reserves and on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend margins in assumptions, notably for annuity business.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the investment.
It includes the interest rate Unallocated divisible surplus differential on forward foreign exchange contracts.
Rental income is In certain participating long-term insurance and investment recognised on an accruals basis, and is recognised on a straight line business, the nature of the policy benefits is such that the division basis unless there is compelling evidence that benefits do not between shareholder reserves and policyholder liabilities is accrue evenly over the period of the lease.
Amounts whose allocation to either policyholders or A gain or loss on a financial investment is only realised on shareholders has not been determined by the end of the financial disposal or transfer, and is the difference between the proceeds year are held within liabilities as an unallocated divisible surplus.
received, net of transaction costs, and its original cost or amortised If the aggregate carrying value of liabilities for a particular cost, as appropriate.
participating business fund is in excess of the aggregate carrying Unrealised gains and losses, arising on investments which have value of its assets, then the difference is held as a negative not been derecognised as a result of disposal or transfer, represent unallocated divisible surplus balance, subject to recoverability from the difference between the carrying value at the year end and the margins in that funds participating business.
Any excess of this carrying value at the previous year end or purchase value during the difference over the recoverable amount is charged to net income in year, less the reversal of previously recognised unrealised gains and the reporting period.
losses in respect of disposals made during the year.
Realised gains or losses on investment property represent the difference between Embedded derivatives the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the property.
Embedded derivatives that meet the definition of an insurance contract or correspond to options to surrender insurance contracts L Insurance and participating investment contract for a set amount or based on a fixed amount and an interest rate are not separately measured.
All other embedded derivatives are liabilities separated and measured at fair value if they are not considered Claims closely related to the host insurance contract or do not meet the Long-term business claims reflect the cost of all claims arising definition of an insurance contract.
Fair value reflects own credit risk during the year, including claims handling costs, as well as to the extent the embedded derivative is not fully collateralised.
policyholder bonuses accrued in anticipation of bonus declarations.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 98 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued Liability adequacy M Non-participating investment contract liabilities At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the Claims recognised long-term business provisions are adequate, using For non-participating investment contracts with an account current estimates of future cash flows.
If that assessment shows that balance, claims reflect the excess of amounts paid over the account the carrying amount of the liabilities less related assets is balance released.
insufficient in light of the estimated future cash flows, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up an additional Contract liabilities provision in the statement of financial position.
Deposits collected under non-participating investment contracts are not accounted for through the income statement, except for the General insurance and health provisions investment income attributable to those contracts, but are Outstanding claims provisions accounted for directly through the statement of financial position as General insurance and health outstanding claims provisions are an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not The majority of the Groups contracts classified as nonsettled at the statement of financial position date, whether reported participating investment contracts are unit-linked contracts and are or not, together with related claims handling costs.
Significant measured at fair value.
Certain liabilities for non-linked nondelays are experienced in the notification and settlement of certain participating contracts are measured at amortised cost.
types of general insurance claims, particularly in respect of liability The liabilitys fair value is determined using a valuation business, including environmental and pollution exposures, the technique to provide a reliable estimate of the amount for which the ultimate cost of which cannot be known with certainty at the liability could be transferred in an orderly transaction between statement of financial position date.
As such, booked claim market participants at the measurement date, subject to a provisions for general insurance and health insurance are based on minimum equal to the surrender value.
For unit-linked contracts, the best estimate of the cost of future claim payments plus an the fair value liability is equal to the current unit fund value, explicit allowance for risk and uncertainty.
Any estimate represents a including any unfunded units.
In addition, if required, non-unit determination within a range of possible outcomes.
Further details reserves are held based on a discounted cash flow analysis.
For nonof estimation techniques are given in note 40 c. linked contracts, the fair value liability is based on a discounted cash Provisions for latent claims and claims that are settled on an flow analysis, with allowance for risk calibrated to match the market annuity type basis such as structured settlements are discounted, in price for risk.
the relevant currency at the reporting date, having regard to the Amortised cost is calculated as the fair value of consideration expected settlement dates of the claims and the nature of the received at the date of initial recognition, less the net effect of liabilities.
The discount rate is set at the start of the accounting payments such as transaction costs and front-end fees, plus or period with any change in rates between the start and end of the minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest rate accounting period being reflected below operating profit as an method of any difference between that initial amount and the economic assumption change.
The range of discount rates used is maturity value, and less any write-down for surrender payments.
Outstanding claims provisions are valued The effective interest rate is the one that equates the discounted net of an allowance for expected future recoveries.
Recoveries cash payments to the initial amount.
At each reporting date, the include non-insurance assets that have been acquired by exercising amortised cost liability is determined as the value of future best rights to salvage and subrogation under the terms of insurance estimate cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
Where material, anticipated recoveries are disclosed under receivables and not deducted from outstanding claims N Reinsurance provisions.
The Group assumes and cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business, with retention limits varying by line of business.
Premiums Provision for unearned premiums on reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue in the same The proportion of written premiums, gross of commission payable manner as they would be if the reinsurance were considered direct to intermediaries, attributable to subsequent periods is deferred as business, taking into account the product classification of the a provision for unearned premiums.
The change in this provision is reinsured business.
The cost of reinsurance related to long-duration taken to the income statement as recognition of revenue over the contracts is accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured period of risk.
policies, using assumptions consistent with those used to account for these policies.
Liability adequacy Where general insurance liabilities are discounted, any At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired risks and corresponding reinsurance assets are also discounted using carries out a liability adequacy test for any overall excess of consistent assumptions.
expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are recognised premiums, using the current estimates of future cash flows under its in the income statement immediately at the date of purchase and contracts after taking account of the investment return expected to are not amortised.
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are arise on assets relating to the relevant general business provisions.
If presented on a gross basis in the consolidated income statement these estimates show that the carrying amount of its insurance and statement of financial position as appropriate.
liabilities less related deferred acquisition costs is insufficient in Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from both light of the estimated future cash flows, the deficiency is recognised insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance and in the income statement by setting up a provision in the statement investment contract liabilities.
This includes balances in respect of of financial position.
investment contracts which are legally reinsurance contracts but do not meet the definition of a reinsurance contract under IFRS.
Other assessments and levies Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner The Group is subject to various periodic insurance-related consistent with the underlying contract liabilities, outstanding assessments or guarantee fund levies.
Related provisions are claims provisions or settled claims associated with the reinsured established where there is a present obligation legal or policies and in accordance with the relevant reinsurance contract.
constructive as a result of a past event.
Such amounts are not Reinsurance of non-participating investment contracts and included in insurance liabilities but are included under Pension reinsurance contracts that principally transfer financial risk are deficits and other provisions in the statement of financial position.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 99 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued accounted for directly through the statement of financial position.
A The carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with deposit asset or liability is recognised, based on the consideration indefinite useful lives is reviewed at least annually or when paid or received less any explicitly identified premiums or fees to be circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this retained by the reinsured.
These deposit assets or liabilities are value.
Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are written down for shown within reinsurance assets in the consolidated statement of impairment where the recoverable amount is insufficient to support financial position.
Further details on goodwill allocation and If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the impairment testing are given in note 16.
Any impairments are carrying amount accordingly and recognises that impairment loss in charged as expenses in the income statement.
A reinsurance asset is impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after initial P Property and equipment recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group may not receive Owner-occupied properties are carried at their revalued amounts, all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract, and the event and movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group taken to a separate reserve within equity.
When such properties are will receive from the reinsurer.
sold, the accumulated revaluation surpluses are transferred from this reserve to retained earnings.
These properties are depreciated O Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets down to their estimated residual values over their useful lives.
All Goodwill other items classed as property and equipment within the Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the statement of financial position are carried at historical cost less fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the acquired accumulated depreciation.
subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Investment properties under construction are included within Goodwill arising on the Groups investments in subsidiaries is shown property and equipment until completion, and are stated at cost as a separate asset, while that on associates and joint ventures is less any provision for impairment in their values until construction is included within the carrying value of those investments.
completed or fair value becomes reliably measurable.
Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 the date of Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write transition to IFRS is carried at its book value original cost less down the cost of other assets to their residual values over their cumulative amortisation on that date, less any impairment estimated useful lives as follows: subsequently incurred.
Goodwill arising before 1 January 1998 was Properties under construction No depreciation eliminated against reserves and has not been reinstated.
Owner-occupied properties, and 25 years related mechanical and electrical Acquired value of in-force business AVIF equipment The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term Motor vehicles Three years, or lease term insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or up to useful life if longer through the purchase of a subsidiary, is recognised as an asset.
Computer equipment Three to five years If the AVIF results from the acquisition of an investment in a joint Other assets Three to five years venture or an associate, it is held within the carrying amount of that investment.
In all cases, the AVIF is amortised over the useful lifetime The assets residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation of the related contracts in the portfolio on a systematic basis.
The are reviewed regularly, and at least at each financial year end, and rate of amortisation is chosen by considering the profile of the adjusted if appropriate.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is additional value of in-force business acquired and the expected greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down depletion in its value.
immediately to its recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on Non-participating investment contract AVIF is reviewed for disposal of property and equipment are determined by reference to evidence of impairment, consistent with reviews conducted for their carrying amount.
other finite life intangible assets.
Insurance and participating Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition and investment contract AVIF is reviewed for impairment at each construction of property and equipment are capitalised.
All repair reporting date as part of the liability adequacy requirements of IFRS and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during 4 see accounting policy L. AVIF is reviewed for evidence of the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major impairment and impairment tested at product portfolio level by renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is reference to a projection of future profits arising from the portfolio.
probable that future economic benefits in excess of the most recently assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will Intangible assets flow to the Group and the renovation replaces an identifiable part of Intangible assets consist primarily of contractual relationships such the asset.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining as access to distribution networks, customer lists and software.
The useful life of the related asset.
economic lives of these are determined by considering relevant factors such as usage of the asset, typical product life cycles, Q Investment property potential obsolescence, maintenance costs, the stability of the Investment property is held for long-term rental yields and is not industry, competitive position and the period of control over the occupied by the Group.
Completed investment property is stated at assets.
These intangibles are amortised over their useful lives, which its fair value, as assessed by qualified external valuers or by local range from three to 30 years, using the straight-line method.
qualified staff of the Group.
Changes in fair values are recorded in The amortisation charge for the year is included in the income the income statement in net investment income.
For intangibles with finite lives, As described in accounting policy P above, investment impairment charges will be recognised in the income statement properties under construction are included within property and where evidence of such impairment is observed.
Intangibles with equipment, and are stated at cost less any impairment in their indefinite lives are subject to regular impairment testing, as values until construction is completed or fair value becomes reliably described below.
Impairment testing For impairment testing, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have been allocated to cash-generating units.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 100 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued fair value adjustments are transferred out of the investment R Impairment of non-financial assets valuation reserve to the income statement with a corresponding Property and equipment and other non-financial assets are movement through other comprehensive income.
reviewed for impairment losses whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be Impairment recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income The Group reviews the carrying value of its AFS investments on a statement for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset regular basis.
If the carrying value of an AFS investment is greater exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets fair than the recoverable amount, the carrying value is reduced through value less costs of disposal and value in use.
For the purposes of a charge to the income statement in the period of impairment.
The assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for following policies are used to determine the level of any which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Non-financial impairment, some of which involve considerable judgement: assets except goodwill which have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting AFS debt securities date.
An AFS debt security is impaired if there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred which has impaired the expected cash S Derecognition and offset of financial assets and flows, i. e. where all amounts due according to the contractual terms financial liabilities of the security are not considered collectible.
An impairment charge, A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or measured as the difference between the securitys fair value and part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: amortised cost, is recognised when the issuer is known to be either The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: in default or in financial difficulty.
Determining when an issuer is in The Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, financial difficulty requires the use of judgement, and we consider a but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without number of factors including industry risk factors, financial condition, material delay to a third party under a pass-through liquidity position and near-term prospects of the issuer, credit rating arrangement: or declines and a breach of contract.
A decline in fair value below The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the amortised cost due to changes in risk-free interest rates does not asset and has either transferred substantially all the risks and necessarily represent objective evidence of a loss event.
rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor retained For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has unrealised loss previously recognised within the investment transferred control of the asset.
valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year, with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive income.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired securities is liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in the Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount investment valuation reserve unless this increase represents a reported in the statement of financial position when there is a decrease in the impairment loss that can be objectively related to an currently enforceable legal right to set off the recognised amounts event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the and there is the ability and intention to settle on a net basis, or income statement.
In such an event, the reversal of the impairment realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
loss is recognised as a gain in the income statement.
T Financial investments AFS equity securities An AFS equity security is considered impaired if there is objective The Group classifies its investments as either FVTPL or AFS.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments evidence that the cost may not be recovered.
In addition to qualitative impairment criteria, such evidence includes a significant were acquired, and is determined by local management at initial recognition.
The FVTPL category has two subcategories those that or prolonged decline in fair value below cost.
Unless there is evidence to the contrary, an equity security is considered impaired if meet the definition as being held for trading and those the Group chooses to designate as FVTPL referred to in this accounting policy the decline in fair value relative to cost has been either at least 20% for a continuous six-month period or more than 40% at the end of as other than trading upon initial recognition.
In general, the other than trading category is used as, in most the reporting period, or been in an unrealised loss position for a continuous period of more than 12 months at the end of the cases, the Groups investment or risk management strategy is to manage its financial investments on a fair value basis.
We also review our largest equity holdings for evidence of impairment, as well as individual equity holdings in securities and equity securities, which the Group acquires with the intention to resell in the short term, are classified as trading, as are industry sectors known to be in difficulty.
Where there is objective evidence that impairment exists, the security is written down non-hedge derivatives see accounting policy U below.
The AFS category is used where the relevant long-term business liability regardless of the size of the unrealised loss.
For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative including shareholders funds is passively managed, as well as in certain fund management and non-insurance operations.
unrealised loss previously recognised within the investment valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year with a Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell corresponding movement through other comprehensive income.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired securities is the assets, at their fair values.
Debt securities are initially recorded at their fair value, which is taken to be amortised cost, with recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in the investment valuation reserve.
amortisation credited or charged to the income statement.
Investments classified as trading, other than trading and AFS, are Reversals of impairments on any of these assets are only recognised where the decrease in the impairment can be objectively subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of trading and other than trading investments are included in the related to an event occurring after the write-down such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, and are not recognised income statement in the period in which they arise.
Changes in the fair value of securities classified as AFS are in respect of equity instruments.
recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in a separate investment valuation reserve within equity.
When securities classified as AFS are sold or impaired, the accumulated Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 101 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued the seller to pay the buyer an interest rate differential in exchange U Derivative financial instruments and hedging for a premium paid by the buyer.
This differential represents the Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange contracts, difference between current rate and an agreed rate applied to a interest rate futures, currency and interest rate swaps, currency and notional amount.
Exposure to gain or loss on all interest rate interest rate options both written and purchased and other contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as financial instruments that derive their value mainly from underlying interest rates fluctuate.
Certain contracts, known as swaptions, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit or equity indices, contain features which can act as swaps or options.
commodity values or equity instruments.
All derivatives are initially recognised in the statement of Foreign exchange contracts financial position at their fair value, which usually represents their Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot, forward and futures cost.
They are subsequently remeasured at their fair value, with the contracts, represent agreements to exchange the currency of one method of recognising movements in this value depending on country for the currency of another country at an agreed price and whether they are designated as hedging instruments and, if so, the settlement date.
Foreign exchange option contracts are similar to nature of the item being hedged.
Fair values are obtained from interest rate option contracts, except that they are based on quoted market prices or, if these are not available, by using currencies, rather than interest rates.
valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when the Derivative instruments for hedging fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group negative.
Premiums paid for derivatives are recorded as an asset on designates certain derivatives as either: the statement of financial position at the date of purchase, i a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability fair representing their fair value at that date.
value hedge : Derivative contracts may be traded on an exchange or over-theii a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised asset counter OTC.
Exchange-traded derivatives are standardised and or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction or a firm include certain futures and option contracts.
OTC derivative commitment cash flow hedge : or contracts are individually negotiated between contracting parties iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net and include forwards, swaps, caps and floors.
Derivatives are subject investment hedge.
to various risks including market, liquidity and credit risk, similar to those related to the underlying financial instruments.
Many OTC Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, transactions are contracted and documented under International provided certain criteria are met.
At the inception of the transaction, Swaps and Derivatives Association master agreements or their the Group documents the relationship between the hedging equivalent, which are designed to provide legally enforceable set-off instrument and the hedged item, as well as the risk management in the event of default, reducing the Groups exposure to credit risk.
objective and the strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction.
The notional or contractual amounts associated with derivative The Group also documents its assessment of whether the hedge is financial instruments are not recorded as assets or liabilities on the expected to be, and has been, highly effective in offsetting the risk in statement of financial position as they do not represent the fair the hedged item, both at inception and on an ongoing basis.
These amounts are disclosed in note Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and 57 b. qualify as net investment or cash flow hedges, and that prove to be The Group has collateral agreements in place between the highly effective in relation to the hedged risk, are recognised in other individual Group entities and relevant counterparties.
Accounting comprehensive income and a separate reserve within equity.
Gains policy W covers collateral, both received and pledged, in respect of and losses accumulated in this reserve are included in the income these derivatives.
statement on disposal of the relevant investment or occurrence of the cash flow as appropriate.
Interest rate and currency swaps Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between two parties qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement.
to exchange fixed rate and floating rate interest by means of The gain or loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the periodic payments, calculated on a specified notional amount and hedged risk is recognised in the income statement.
This applies defined interest rates.
Most interest rate swap payments are netted even if the hedged item is an available for sale financial asset or is against each other, with the difference between the fixed and measured at amortised cost.
If a hedging relationship no longer floating rate interest payments paid by one party.
Currency swaps, meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment in their simplest form, are contractual agreements that involve the made to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the exchange of both periodic and final amounts in two different income statement, based on a recalculated effective interest rate currencies.
Both types of swap contracts may include the net over the residual period to maturity.
In cases where the hedged item exchange of principal.
Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts has been derecognised, the cumulative adjustment is released to will increase or decrease over their respective lives as a function of the income statement immediately.
maturity dates, interest and foreign exchange rates, and the timing For a variety of reasons, certain derivative transactions, while of payments.
providing effective economic hedges under the Groups risk management positions, do not qualify for hedge accounting under Interest rate futures, forwards and options contracts the specific IFRS rules and are therefore treated as derivatives held Interest rate futures are exchange-traded instruments and represent for trading.
Their fair value gains and losses are recognised commitments to purchase or sell a designated security or money immediately in net investment income.
market instrument at a specified future date and price.
Interest rate forward agreements are OTC contracts in which two parties agree on an interest rate and other terms that will become a reference V Loans point in determining, in concert with an agreed notional principal Loans with fixed maturities, including policyholder loans, mortgage amount, a net payment to be made by one party to the other, loans on investment property, securitised mortgages and collateral depending upon what rate prevails at a future point in time.
Interest loans, are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers.
Certain rate options, which consist primarily of caps and floors, are interest loans are carried at their unpaid principal balances and adjusted for rate protection instruments that involve the potential obligation of amortisation of premium or discount, non-refundable loan fees and Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 102 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued related direct costs.
These amounts are deferred and amortised over accounting policy L. For non-participating investment and the life of the loan as an adjustment to loan yield using the effective investment fund management contracts, incremental acquisition interest rate method.
costs and sales enhancements that are directly attributable to However, for the majority of mortgage loans, the Group has securing an investment management service are also deferred.
taken advantage of the fair value option under IAS 39 to present the Where such business is reinsured, an appropriate proportion of mortgages, associated borrowings and derivative financial the deferred acquisition costs is attributed to the reinsurer.
instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a portfolio on a Long-term business deferred acquisition costs are amortised fair value basis.
This presentation provides more relevant systematically over a period no longer than that in which they are information and eliminates any accounting mismatch that would expected to be recoverable out of these future margins.
Deferred otherwise arise from using different measurement bases for these acquisition costs for non-participating investment and investment three items.
The fair values of these mortgages are estimated using fund management contracts are amortised over the period in which discounted cash flow models, based on a risk-adjusted discount the service is provided.
General insurance and health deferred rate which reflects the risks associated with these products.
They are acquisition costs are amortised over the period in which the related revalued at each period end, with movements in their fair values revenues are earned.
The reinsurers share of deferred acquisition being taken to the income statement.
costs is amortised in the same manner as the underlying asset.
At each reporting date, we review loans carried at amortised Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed by category of business cost for objective evidence that they are impaired and at the end of each reporting period and are written-off where they uncollectable, either at the level of an individual security or are no longer considered to be recoverable.
collectively within a group of loans with similar credit risk Other receivables and payables are initially recognised at cost, characteristics.
To the extent that a loan is uncollectable, it is written being fair value.
Subsequent to initial measurement they are down as impaired to its recoverable amount, measured as the measured at amortised cost.
present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate of the loan, taking into account the fair Y Statement of cash flows value of the underlying collateral through an impairment provision Cash and cash equivalents account.
Subsequent recoveries in excess of the loans written-down Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, carrying value are credited to the income statement.
deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of W Collateral change in value.
Such investments are those with less than three The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or months maturity from the date of acquisition, or which are non-cash assets in respect of stock lending transactions, certain redeemable on demand with only an insignificant change in their derivative contracts and loans, in order to reduce the credit risk of fair values.
Collateral is also pledged as security for bank For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash letters of credit.
The amount and type of collateral required depends equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are included in on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty.
payables and other financial liabilities on the statement of financial Collateral received in the form of cash, which is not legally position.
segregated from the Group, is recognised as an asset in the statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for the Operating cash flows repayment in financial liabilities note 58.
However, where the Purchases and sales of investment property, loans and financial Group has a currently enforceable legal right of set-off and the investments are included within operating cash flows as the ability and intent to net settle, the collateral liability and associated purchases are funded from cash flows associated with the derivative balances are shown net.
Non-cash collateral received is origination of insurance and investment contracts, net of payments not recognised in the statement of financial position unless the of related benefits and claims.
transfer of the collateral meets the derecognition criteria from the perspective of the transferor.
Such collateral is typically recognised Z Leases when the Group either a sells or repledges these assets in the absence of default, at which point the obligation to return this Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of collateral is recognised as a liability: or b the counterparty to the ownership is retained by the lessor, are classified as operating arrangement defaults, at which point the collateral is seized and leases.
Where the Group is the lessee, payments made under recognised as an asset.
operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are Collateral pledged in the form of cash, which is legally charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the segregated from the Group, is derecognised from the statement of term of the relevant leases.
financial position with a corresponding receivable recognised for its Where the Group is the lessor, lease income from operating return.
Non-cash collateral pledged is not derecognised from the leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis statement of financial position unless the Group defaults on its over the lease term.
obligations under the relevant agreement, and therefore continues When assets are subject to finance leases, the present value of to be recognised in the statement of financial position within the the lease payments, together with any unguaranteed residual value, appropriate asset classification.
The Group has not entered into any material finance lease arrangements either as lessor or lessee.
X Deferred acquisition costs and other assets Costs relating to the acquisition of new business for insurance and AA Provisions and contingent liabilities participating investment contracts are deferred in line with existing Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or local accounting practices, to the extent that they are expected to be constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more probable recovered out of future margins in revenues on these contracts.
For than not that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits participating contracts written in the UK, acquisition costs are will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of generally not deferred as the liability for these contracts is the amount of the obligation can be made.
Restructuring provisions calculated on a realistic basis which was grandfathered from UK include lease termination penalties and employee termination regulatory requirements prior to the adoption of Solvency II see payments.
They comprise only the direct expenditures arising from Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 103 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued the restructuring, which are those that are necessarily entailed by discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the the restructuring: and not associated with the ongoing activities of beginning of the year to the net defined benefit liability asset.
The amount recorded as a provision is the best estimate interest expense is charged to finance costs, whereas, net interest of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the income is credited to investment income.
Where the effect of the time value of money is For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to material, the provision is the present value of the expected publicly or privately administered pension plans.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no losses.
The Groups contributions are charged Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for to the income statement in the year to which they relate and are example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is included in staff costs.
recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Equity compensation plans The Group offers share award and option plans over the Companys The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts when ordinary shares for certain employees, including a Save As You Earn the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the plan SAYE plan, details of which are given in the Directors unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
Remuneration Report and in note 31.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed if there is a possible future The Group accounts for options and awards under equity obligation as a result of a past event, or if there is a present compensation plans, which were granted after 7 November 2002, obligation as a result of a past event but either a payment is not until such time as they are fully vested, using the fair value based probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
method of accounting the fair value method.
Under this method, the cost of providing equity compensation plans is based on the fair AB Employee benefits value of the share awards or option plans at date of grant, which is Pension obligations recognised in the income statement over the expected vesting The Group operates a number of pension schemes, whose members period of the related employees and credited to the equity receive benefits on either a defined benefit or defined contribution compensation reserve, part of shareholders funds.
Under a defined contribution plan, the Groups legal or jurisdictions, awards must be settled in cash instead of shares, and constructive obligation is limited to the amount it agrees to the credit is taken to liabilities rather than reserves.
The fair value of contribute to a fund and there is no obligation to pay further these cash-settled awards is recalculated each year, with the income contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay statement charge and liability being adjusted accordingly.
A defined benefit pension plan is a pension plan that is not Shares purchased by employee share trusts to fund these a defined contribution plan and typically defines the amount of awards are shown as deduction from shareholders equity at their pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, the actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The pension proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated future share capital par value and the balance to share premium.
Where cash outflows, using a discount rate based on market yields for highthe shares are already held by employee trusts, the net proceeds are quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in credited against the cost of these shares, with the difference which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity between cost and proceeds being taken to retained earnings.
In approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The both cases, the relevant amount in the equity compensation reserve resultant net surplus or deficit recognised as an asset or liability on is then credited to retained earnings.
the statement of financial position is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
AC Income taxes Plan assets exclude unpaid contributions due from Group The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the year, entities to the schemes, and any non-transferrable financial after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax, including tax instruments issued by a Group entity and held by the schemes.
If the relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over profits before taxation fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the defined and amounts charged or credited to components of other benefit obligation, the resultant asset is limited to the asset ceiling comprehensive income and equity, as appropriate.
defined as present value of economic benefits available in the form Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for of future refunds from the plan or reductions in contributions to the deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material plan.
In order to calculate the present value of economic benefits, temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements that and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
apply to any plan in the Group.
The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation of Remeasurements of defined benefit plans comprise actuarial property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial assets and gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes liabilities including derivative contracts, technical provisions and in actuarial assumptions, the return on plan assets excluding net other insurance items, provisions for pensions and other postinterest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any.
The Group retirement benefits and tax losses carried forward: and, in relation to recognises remeasurements immediately in other comprehensive acquisitions, on the difference between the fair values of the net income and does not reclassify them to the income statement in assets acquired and their tax base.
The rates enacted or subsequent periods.
substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date are Service costs comprising current service costs, past service used to value the deferred tax assets and liabilities.
costs, gains and losses on curtailments and net interest Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is expense income are charged or credited to the income statement.
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which Past service costs are recognised at the earlier of the date the the temporary differences can be utilised.
In countries where there is plan amendment or curtailment occurs or when related a history of tax losses, deferred tax assets are only recognised in restructuring costs are recognised.
excess of deferred tax liabilities if there is convincing evidence that The Group determines the net interest expense income on the future profits will be available.
net defined benefit liability asset for the period by applying the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 104 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Accounting policies Continued Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising from ii the instrument is a non-derivative that contains no contractual investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except obligation to deliver a variable number of shares or is a where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be derivative that will be settled only by the Group exchanging a controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in fixed amount of cash or other assets for a fixed number of the the foreseeable future.
Deferred taxes are not provided in respect of temporary Share issue costs differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or from Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of new the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the not a business combination and affects neither accounting profit proceeds of the issue and disclosed where material.
nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised in other Dividends comprehensive income and directly in equity are similarly Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on these shares are respectively.
Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement of recognised when they have been approved by shareholders.
available for sale investments, pensions and other post-retirement Dividends on preference shares are recognised in the period in obligations and other amounts charged or credited directly to other which they are declared and appropriately approved.
comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of financial position as a deferred tax asset or liability.
Current tax on interest Treasury shares paid on the direct capital instrument and tier 1 notes is credited Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys directly in equity.
share capital or obtain rights to purchase its share capital, the In addition to paying tax on shareholders profits shareholder consideration paid including any attributable transaction costs net tax, the Groups life businesses in the UK, Ireland and Singapore of income taxes is shown as a deduction from total shareholders pay tax on policyholders investment returns policyholder tax on equity.
Gains and losses on own shares are charged or credited to certain products at policyholder tax rates.
The incremental tax the treasury share account in equity.
borne by the Group represents income tax on policyholders investment return.
In jurisdictions where policyholder tax is AF Fiduciary activities applicable, the total tax charge in the income statement is allocated Assets and income arising from fiduciary activities, together with between shareholder tax and policyholder tax.
The shareholder tax related undertakings to return such assets to customers, are is calculated by applying the corporate tax rate to the shareholder excluded from these financial statements where the Group has no profit.
The difference between the total tax charge and shareholder contractual rights in the assets and acts in a fiduciary capacity such tax is allocated to policyholder tax.
This calculation methodology is as nominee, trustee or agent.
consistent with the legislation relating to the calculation of tax on shareholder profits.
The Group has decided to show separately the amounts of policyholder tax to provide a meaningful measure of the AG Earnings per share tax the Group pays on its profit.
In the pro forma reconciliations, the Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income Group adjusted operating profit has been calculated after charging available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number policyholder tax.
of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of treasury shares.
AD Borrowings Earnings per share has also been calculated on Group adjusted operating profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, net of tax, Borrowings are classified as being for either core structural or non-controlling interests, preference dividends, the direct capital operational purposes.
They are recognised initially at their issue instrument the DCI and tier one notes as the directors believe this proceeds less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently, most figure provides a better indication of operating performance.
Details borrowings are stated at amortised cost, and any difference are given in note 14. between net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in For the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are expensed as of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as convertible debt and they are incurred except where they are directly attributable to the share options granted to employees.
acquisition or construction of property and equipment as described Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive in accounting policy P. when their conversion to shares would decrease net earnings per Where loan notes have been issued in connection with certain share.
securitised mortgage loans, the Group has taken advantage of the fair value option under IAS 39 to present the mortgages, associated liabilities and derivative financial instruments at fair value, since AH Operations held for sale they are managed as a portfolio on a fair value basis.
This Assets and liabilities held for disposal as part of operations which presentation provides more relevant information and eliminates any are held for sale are shown separately in the consolidated statement accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise from using of financial position.
Operations held for sale are recorded at the different measurement bases for these three items.
lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less the estimated selling costs.
AE Share capital and treasury shares Equity instruments An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities.
Accordingly, a financial instrument is treated as equity if: i there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities on terms that may be unfavourable: and Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 105
