Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 55 Statement of cash flows continued c Cash flows in respect of the disposal of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates comprised: 2017 2016 m m Cash proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 861 94 Less: Net cash and cash equivalents divested with subsidiaries 910 52 Total cash flow on disposals 49 42 The above figures form part of cash flows from investing activities.
d Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows at 31 December comprised: 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 6,293 5,049 Cash equivalents 37,793 33,914 44,086 38,963 Bank overdrafts 499 558 43,587 38,405 Cash and cash equivalents reconciles to the statement of financial position as follows: 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 44,086 38,963 Less: Assets classified as held for sale 739 255 43,347 38,708 56 Risk management This note sets out the major risks our businesses and our shareholders face and describes the Groups approach to managing these.
It also gives sensitivity analyses around the major economic and non-economic assumptions that can cause volatility in the Groups earnings and capital position.
a Risk management framework The risk management framework in Aviva forms an integral part of the management and Board processes and decision-making framework across the Group.
The key elements of our risk management framework comprise risk appetite: risk governance, including risk policies and business standards, risk oversight committees and roles and responsibilities: and the processes we use to identify, measure, manage, monitor and report risks, including the use of our risk models and stress and scenario testing.
For the purposes of risk identification and measurement, and aligned to Avivas risk policies, risks are usually grouped by risk type: credit, market, liquidity, life insurance including long-term health, general insurance including short-term health, asset management and operational risk.
Risks falling within these types may affect a number of metrics including those relating to balance sheet strength, liquidity and profit.
They may also affect the performance of the products we deliver to our customers and the service to our customers and distributors, which can be categorised as risks to our brand and reputation or as conduct risk.
To promote a consistent and rigorous approach to risk management across all businesses we have a set of risk policies and business standards which set out the risk strategy, appetite, framework and minimum requirements for the Groups worldwide operations.
The business chief executive officers make an annual declaration supported by an opinion from the business chief risk officers that the system of governance and internal controls was effective and fit for purpose for their business throughout the year.
A regular top-down key risk identification and assessment process is carried out by the risk function.
This includes the consideration of emerging risks and is supported by deeper thematic reviews.
This process is replicated at the business unit level.
The risk assessment processes are used to generate risk reports which are shared with the relevant risk committees.
Risk models are an important tool in our measurement of risks and are used to support the monitoring and reporting of the risk profile and in the consideration of the risk management actions available.
We carry out a range of stress where one risk factor, such as equity returns, is assumed to vary and scenario where combinations of risk factors are assumed to vary tests to evaluate their impact on the business and the management actions available to respond to the conditions envisaged.
For those risk types managed through the holding of capital, being our principal risk types except for liquidity risk, we measure and monitor our risk profile on the basis of the Solvency II solvency capital requirement.
Roles and responsibilities for risk management in Aviva are based around the three lines of defence model where ownership for risk is taken at all levels in the Group.
Line management in the business is accountable for risk management, including the implementation of the risk management framework and embedding of the risk culture.
The risk function is accountable for quantitative and qualitative oversight and challenge of the risk identification, measurement, monitoring, management and reporting processes and for developing the risk management framework.
Internal Audit provides an independent assessment of the risk framework and internal control processes.
Board oversight of risk and risk management across the Group is maintained on a regular basis through its Risk Committee and Governance Committee.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining risk appetite, which is an expression of the risk the business is willing to take.
Risk appetites are set relative to capital and liquidity at Group and in the business units.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 201 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 56 Risk management continued Risk appetites, requiring management action if breached, are also set for interest rate and foreign exchange risk calculated on the basis of the Solvency II solvency capital requirement, and liquidity risk based on stressing forecast central liquid assets and cash inflows and outflows over a specified time horizon.
For other risk types the Group sets Solvency II capital tolerances.
The Groups position against risk appetite and capital tolerances is monitored and reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Long-term sustainability depends upon the protection of franchise value and good customer relationships.
As such, Aviva has a risk preference that we will not accept risks that materially impair the reputation of the Group and requires that customers are always treated with integrity.
The oversight of risk and risk management at the Group level is supported by the Asset Liability Committee, which focuses on business and financial risks, and the Operational Risk Committee which focuses on operational and reputational risks.
Similar committee structures with equivalent terms of reference exist in the business units.
The risk management framework of a small number of our joint ventures and strategic equity holdings differs from the Aviva framework outlined in this note.
We work with these entities to understand how their risks are managed and to align them, where possible, with Avivas framework.
Further information on the types and management of specific risk types is given in sections b to j below.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss as a result of the default or failure of third parties to meet their payment obligations to Aviva, or variations in market values as a result of changes in expectations related to these risks.
Credit risk is taken so that we can provide the returns required to satisfy policyholder liabilities and to generate returns for our shareholders.
In general we prefer to take credit risk over equity and property risks, due to the better expected risk adjusted return, our credit risk analysis capability and the structural investment advantages conferred to insurers with long-dated, relatively illiquid liabilities.
Our approach to managing credit risk recognises that there is a risk of adverse financial impact resulting from fluctuations in credit quality of third parties including default, rating transition and credit spread movements.
Our credit risks arise principally through exposures to debt security investments, structured asset investments, bank deposits, derivative counterparties, mortgage lending and reinsurance counterparties.
The Group manages its credit risk at business unit and Group level.
All business units are required to implement credit risk management processes including limits frameworks, operate specific risk management committees, and ensure detailed reporting and monitoring of their exposures against pre-established risk criteria.
At Group level, we manage and monitor all exposures across our business units on a consolidated basis, and operate a Group limit framework that must be adhered to by all.
A detailed breakdown of the Groups current credit exposure by credit quality is shown below.
i Financial exposures by credit ratings Financial assets are graded according to current external credit ratings issued.
AAA is the highest possible rating.
Investment grade financial assets are classified within the range of AAA to BBB ratings.
Financial assets which fall outside this range are classified as sub-investment grade.
The following table provides information regarding the aggregated credit risk exposure of the Group for financial assets with external credit ratings.
Not rated assets capture assets not rated by external ratings agencies.
Carrying value Less: Amounts including held classified as for sale held for sale Carrying value As at 31 December 2017 AAA AA A BBB Below BBB Not rated m m m Debt securities 10.6% 32.5% 20.0% 23.3% 7.8% 5.8% 175,948 1,140 174,808 Reinsurance assets 87.3% 8.2% 1.9% 2.6% 13,615 123 13,492 Other investments 0.2% 0.3% 0.1% 99.4% 53,277 6,971 46,306 Loans 7.1% 92.9% 27,863 6 27,857 Total 270,703 8,240 262,463 Carrying value Less: Amounts including held classified as for sale held for sale Carrying value 1 As at 31 December 2016 AAA AA A BBB Below BBB Not rated m m m Debt securities 11.8% 33.4% 19.0% 23.9% 6.0% 5.9% 186,708 7,738 178,970 Reinsurance assets 92.0% 6.3% 0.1% 1.6% 26,754 411 26,343 Other investments 0.2% 0.6% 99.2% 51,127 2,304 48,823 Loans 8.0% 0.1% 91.9% 24,859 75 24,784 Total 289,448 10,528 278,920 1 Following a review of the Groups investment classifications, comparative amounts in respect of unit trusts and other investment vehicles and equity and debt securities have been amended from those previously reported.
Refer to note 26 for further details of this adjustment and the financial statement impact arising.
The majority of non-rated debt securities within shareholder assets are held by our businesses in the UK.
Of these securities most are allocated an internal rating using a methodology largely consistent with that adopted by an external rating agency, and are considered to be of investment grade credit quality: these include 2.0 billion 2016: 2.3 billion of debt securities held in our UK Life business, predominantly made up of private placements and other corporate bonds, which have been internally rated as investment grade.
The Group continues to hold a series of macro credit hedges to reduce the overall credit risk exposure.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk of financial assets, without taking collateral or these hedges into account, is represented by the carrying value of the financial instruments in the statement of financial position.
These comprise debt securities, reinsurance assets, derivative assets, loans and receivables.
The carrying values of these assets are disclosed in the relevant notes: financial investments note 26, reinsurance assets note 43, loans note 23 and receivables note 27.
The collateral in place for these credit exposures is disclosed in note 58: Financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
To the extent that collateral held is greater than the amount receivable that it is securing, the table above shows only an amount equal to the latter.
In the event of default, any over-collateralised security would be returned to the relevant counterparty.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 202 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 56 Risk management continued ii Financial exposures to peripheral European countries and worldwide banks Included in our debt securities and other financial assets are exposures to peripheral European countries and worldwide banks.
We continued in 2017 to limit our direct shareholder and participating assets exposure to the governments including local authorities and agencies and banks of Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain.
Information on our exposures to peripheral European sovereigns and banks is provided in notes 26 e and 26 f. We continue to review whether the restrictions on investment in place since late 2009 can be relaxed, given the improved economic situation in these economies.
iii Other investments Other investments including assets of operations classified as held for sale include unit trusts and other investment vehicles: derivative financial instruments, representing positions to mitigate the impact of adverse market movements: and other assets includes deposits with credit institutions and minority holdings in property management undertakings.
The credit quality of the underlying debt securities within investment vehicles is managed by the safeguards built into the investment mandates for these funds which determine the funds risk profiles.
At the Group level, we also monitor the asset quality of unit trusts and other investment vehicles against Group set limits.
A proportion of the assets underlying these investments are represented by equities and so credit ratings are not generally applicable.
Equity exposures are managed against agreed benchmarks that are set with reference to overall appetite for market risk.
iv Loans The Group loan portfolio principally comprises: Policy loans which are generally collateralised by a lien or charge over the underlying policy: Loans and advances to banks which primarily relate to loans of cash collateral received in stock lending transactions.
These loans are fully collateralised by other securities: Healthcare, infrastructure and PFI loans secured against healthcare, education, social housing and emergency services related premises: and Mortgage loans collateralised by property assets.
We use loan to value: interest and debt service cover: and diversity and quality of the tenant base metrics to internally monitor our exposures to mortgage loans.
We use credit quality, based on dynamic market measures, and collateralisation rules to manage our stock lending activities.
Policy loans are loans and advances made to policyholders, and are collateralised by the underlying policies.
v Credit concentration risk The long-term and general insurance businesses are generally not individually exposed to significant concentrations of credit risk due to the regulations applicable in most markets and the Group credit policy and limits framework, which limit investments in individual assets and asset classes.
Credit concentrations are monitored as part of the regular credit monitoring process and are reported to Group ALCO.
With the exception of government bonds the largest aggregated counterparty exposure within shareholder assets i. e. excluding potential exposures arising from reinsurance of unit-linked funds is to the Swiss Reinsurance Company Limited including subsidiaries, representing approximately 2.3% of the total shareholder assets.
vi Reinsurance credit exposures The Group is exposed to concentrations of risk with individual reinsurers due to the nature of the reinsurance market and the restricted range of reinsurers that have acceptable credit ratings.
The Group operates a policy to manage its reinsurance counterparty exposures, by limiting the reinsurers that may be used and applying strict limits to each reinsurer.
Reinsurance exposures are aggregated with other exposures to ensure that the overall risk is within appetite.
The Group Capital and Group Risk teams have an active monitoring role with escalation to the Chief Financial Officer CFO, Chief Risk Officer CRO, Group ALCO and the Board Risk Committee as appropriate.
The Groups largest reinsurance counterparty is BlackRock Life Ltd including subsidiaries as a result of the BlackRock funds offered to UK Life customers via unit-linked contracts.
At 31 December 2017, the reinsurance asset recoverable, including debtor balances, from BlackRock Life Ltd was 5,307 million 2016: 17,087 million, a significant reduction in exposure as a result of action taken to restructure the agreements with BlackRock Life Ltd, and will be further significantly reduced during 2018. vii Securities finance The Group has significant securities financing operations within the UK and smaller operations in some other businesses.
The risks within this activity are mitigated by collateralisation and minimum counterparty credit quality requirements.
viii Derivative credit exposures The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk through derivative trades.
This risk is generally mitigated through holding collateral for most trades.
Residual exposures are captured within the Groups credit management framework.
ix Unit-linked business In unit-linked business the policyholder bears the direct market risk and credit risk on investment assets in the unit funds and the shareholders exposure to credit risk is limited to the extent of the income arising from asset management charges based on the value of assets in the fund.
x Impairment of financial assets In assessing whether financial assets carried at amortised cost or classified as available for sale are impaired, due consideration is given to the factors outlined in accounting policies T and V. The following table provides information regarding the carrying value of financial assets subject to impairment testing that have been impaired and the ageing of those assets that are past due but not impaired.
The table excludes assets carried at fair value through profit or loss and held for sale.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 203 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 56 Risk management continued Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial Neither past assets that due nor 6 months Greater than have been Carrying impaired 03 months 36 months 1 year 1 year impaired value At 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m Debt securities 1,726 1,726 Reinsurance assets 7,521 7,521 Other investments 1 1 Loans 3,465 3,465 Receivables and other financial assets 8,185 78 12 5 5 8,285 Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial Neither past assets that due nor 6 months Greater than have been Carrying impaired 03 months 36 months 1 year 1 year impaired value At 31 December 2016 m m m m m m m Debt securities 1,092 1,092 Reinsurance assets 8,388 8,388 Other investments 1 1 Loans 3,501 3,501 Receivables and other financial assets 7,717 61 7 8 1 7,794 Excluded from the tables above are financial and reinsurance assets carried at fair value through profit or loss that are not subject to impairment testing, as follows: 174.2 billion of debt securities 2016: 185.6 billion, 53.3 billion of other investments 2016: 51.1 billion, 24.4 billion of loans 2016: 21.3 billion and 6.1 billion of reinsurance assets 2016: 18.4 billion.
Where assets have been classed as past due and impaired, an analysis is made of the risk of default and a decision is made whether to seek to mitigate the risk.
There were no material financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated.
c Market risk Market risk is the risk of adverse financial impact resulting, directly or indirectly from fluctuations in interest rates, inflation, foreign currency exchange rates, equity and property prices.
Market risk arises in business units due to fluctuations in both the value of liabilities and the value of investments held.
At Group level, it also arises in relation to the overall portfolio of international businesses and in the value of investment assets owned directly by the shareholders.
We actively seek some market risks as part of our investment and product strategy.
However, we have limited appetite for interest rate risk as we do not believe it is adequately rewarded.
The management of market risk is undertaken at business unit and at Group level.
Businesses manage market risks locally using the Group market risk framework and within local regulatory constraints.
Group Capital is responsible for monitoring and managing market risk at Group level and has established criteria for matching assets and liabilities to limit the impact of mismatches due to market movements.
In addition, where the Groups long-term savings businesses have written insurance and investment products where the majority of investment risks are borne by its policyholders, these risks are managed in line with local regulations and marketing literature, in order to satisfy the policyholders risk and reward objectives.
The Group writes unit-linked business in a number of its operations.
The shareholders exposure to market risk on this business is limited to the extent that income arising from asset management charges is based on the value of assets in the fund.
The most material types of market risk that the Group is exposed to are described below.
i Equity price risk The Group is subject to direct equity price risk arising from changes in the market values of its equity securities portfolio.
Our most material indirect equity price risk exposures are to policyholder unit-linked funds, which are exposed to a fall in the value of the fund thereby reducing the fees we earn on those funds, and participating contracts, which are exposed to a fall in the value of the funds thereby increasing our costs for policyholder guarantees.
We also have some equity exposure in shareholder funds through equities held to match inflation-linked liabilities.
We continue to limit our direct equity exposure in line with our risk preferences.
At a business unit level, investment limits and local investment regulations require that business units hold diversified portfolios of assets thereby reducing exposure to individual equities.
The Group does not have material holdings of unquoted equity securities.
Equity risk is also managed using a variety of derivative instruments, including futures and options.
Businesses actively model the performance of equities through the use of risk models, in particular to understand the impact of equity performance on guarantees, options and bonus rates.
An equity hedging strategy remains in place to help control the Groups overall direct and indirect exposure to equities.
At 31 December 2017 the Group continues to hold a series of macro equity hedges to reduce the overall shareholder equity risk exposure.
Sensitivity to changes in equity prices is given in section j risk and capital management below.
ii Property price risk The Group is subject to property price risk directly due to holdings of investment properties in a variety of locations worldwide and indirectly through investments in mortgages and mortgage backed securities.
Investment in property is managed at business unit level, and is subject to local regulations on investments, liquidity requirements and the expectations of policyholders.
As at 31 December 2017, no material derivative contracts had been entered into to mitigate the effects of changes in property prices.
Sensitivity to changes in property prices is given in section j risk and capital management below.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 204 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 56 Risk management continued iii Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises primarily from the Groups investments in long-term debt and fixed income securities and their movement relative to the value placed on the insurance liabilities.
A number of policyholder product features have an influence on the Groups interest rate risk.
The major features include guaranteed surrender values, guaranteed annuity options, and minimum surrender and maturity values.
Details of material guarantees and options are given in note 42.
Exposure to interest rate risk is monitored through several measures that include duration, capital modelling, sensitivity testing and stress and scenario testing.
The impact of exposure to sustained low interest rates is considered within our scenario testing.
The Group typically manages interest rate risk by investing in fixed interest securities which closely match the interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities where such investments are available.
In particular, a key objective is to at least match the duration of our annuity liabilities with assets of the same duration, and in some cases where appropriate cash flow matching has been used.
These assets include corporate bonds, residential mortgages and commercial mortgages.
Should they default before maturity, it is assumed that the Group can reinvest in assets of a similar risk and return profile, which is subject to market conditions.
Interest rate risk is also managed in some business units using a variety of derivative instruments, including futures, options, swaps, caps and floors.
Some of the Groups products, principally participating contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will impact on profits through a change in the interest spread the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts and the investment income we are able to earn on the investments supporting our obligations under those contracts.
The primary markets where Aviva is exposed to this risk are the UK, France and Italy.
Despite a pick up in market interest rates from the historical lows experienced in 2016, the continued low interest rate environment in a number of markets around the world has resulted in our current reinvestment yields being lower than the overall current portfolio yield, primarily for our investments in fixed income securities and commercial mortgage loans.
As long as market yields remain below the current portfolio level, the portfolio yield, and as a result net investment income, will continue to decline.
While we anticipate interest rates may remain below historical averages before the 2008 financial crisis for some time to come, it is also possible that further future increases in interest rates or market anticipation of such increases, if larger and more rapid than expected, could adversely impact market values of our portfolio of fixed income securities and increase the risk of credit defaults and downgrades.
Other product lines of the Group, such as protection, are not significantly sensitive to interest rate or market movements.
For unitlinked business, the shareholder margins emerging are typically a mixture of annual management fees and risk expense charges.
Risk and expense margins will be largely unaffected by low interest rates.
Annual management fees may increase in the short term as the move towards low interest rates increases the value of unit funds.
However, in the medium term, unit funds will grow at a lower rate which will reduce fund charges.
For the UK annuities business interest rate exposure is mitigated by closely matching the duration of liabilities with assets of the same duration.
The UK participating business includes contracts with features such as guaranteed surrender values, guaranteed annuity options, and minimum surrender and maturity values.
These liabilities are managed through duration matching of assets and liabilities and the use of derivatives, including swaptions.
As a result, the Groups exposure to sustained low interest rates on this portfolio is not material.
The Groups key exposure to low interest rates arises through its other participating contracts, principally in Italy and France.
Some of these contracts also include features such as guaranteed minimum bonuses, guaranteed investment returns and guaranteed surrender values.
In a low interest rate environment there is a risk that the yield on assets might not be sufficient to cover these obligations.
For certain of its participating contracts the Group is able to amend guaranteed crediting rates.
Our ability to lower crediting rates may be limited by competition, bonus mechanisms and contractual arrangements.
In addition, the following table summarises the weighted average minimum guaranteed crediting rates and weighted average book value yields on assets as at 31 December 2017 for our Italian and French participating contracts, where the Groups key exposure to sustained low interest rates arises.
Weighted average Weighted Participating minimum average book contract guaranteed value yield on liabilities crediting rate assets m France 0.64% 3.02% 67,689 Italy 0.69% 3.56% 15,237 1 Other N A N A 54,656 Total N A N A 137,582 1 Other includes UK participating business Profit before tax on General Insurance and Health Insurance business is generally a mixture of insurance, expense and investment returns.
The asset portfolio is invested primarily in fixed income securities and the reduction in interest rates in recent years has reduced the investment component of profit.
The portfolio investment yield and average total invested assets in our general insurance and health business are set out in the table below.
Portfolio Average investment assets 1 yield m 2015 2.58% 15,268 2016 2.47% 14,369 2017 2.07% 14,770 1 Before realised and unrealised gains and losses and investment expenses Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 205 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 56 Risk management continued The nature of the business means that prices in certain circumstances can be increased to maintain overall profitability.
This is subject to the competitive environment in each market.
To the extent that there are further falls in interest rates the investment yield would be expected to decrease further in future periods.
Sensitivity to changes in interest rates is given in section j risk and capital management below.
iv Inflation risk Inflation risk arises primarily from the Groups exposure to general insurance claims inflation, to inflation linked benefits within the defined benefit staff pension schemes and within the UK annuity portfolio and to expense inflation.
Increases in long-term inflation expectations are closely linked to long-term interest rates and so are frequently considered with interest rate risk.
Exposure to inflation risk is monitored through capital modelling, sensitivity testing and stress and scenario testing.
The Group typically manages inflation risk through its investment strategy and, in particular, by investing in inflation linked securities and through a variety of derivative instruments, including inflation linked swaps.
v Currency risk The Group has minimal exposure to currency risk from financial instruments held by business units in currencies other than their functional currencies, as nearly all such holdings are backing either unit-linked or with-profits contract liabilities or hedging.
As a result the foreign exchange and losses on investments see note 5 are largely offset by changes in unit-linked and with-profits liabilities and fair value changes in derivatives attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates recognised in the income statement.
The Group operates internationally and as a result is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates of various currencies.
Approximately 59% of the Groups premium income arises in currencies other than sterling and the Groups net assets are denominated in a variety of currencies, of which the largest are sterling, euro and Canadian dollars.
The Group does not hedge foreign currency revenues as these are substantially retained locally to support the growth of the Groups business and meet local regulatory and market requirements.
However, the Group does use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge planned dividends from its subsidiaries.
Businesses aim to maintain sufficient assets in local currency to meet local currency liabilities, however movements may impact the value of the Groups consolidated shareholders equity which is expressed in sterling.
This aspect of foreign exchange risk is monitored and managed centrally, against pre-determined limits.
These exposures are managed by aligning the deployment of regulatory capital by currency with the Groups regulatory capital requirements by currency.
Currency borrowings and derivatives are used to manage exposures within the limits that have been set.
Except where the Group has applied net investment hedge accounting see note 57 a i, foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency borrowings see note 6 are recognised in the income statement, whereas foreign exchange gains and losses arising on consolidation from the translation of assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are recognised in other comprehensive income.
At 31 December 2017 and 2016, the Groups total equity deployment by currency including assets held for sale was: Sterling Euro CAD$ Other Total m m m m m Capital 31 December 2017 16,776 444 309 1,606 19,135 Capital 31 December 2016 15,813 923 627 2,188 19,551 A 10% change in sterling to euro Canada$ CAD$ period-end foreign exchange rates would have had the following impact on total equity.
10% increase 10% decrease 10% increase 10% decrease in sterling in sterling in sterling in sterling euro rate euro rate CAD$ rate CAD$ rate m m m m Net assets at 31 December 2017 44 44 31 31 Net assets at 31 December 2016 92 92 63 20 A 10% change in sterling to euro Canada$ CAD$ average foreign exchange rates applied to translate foreign currency profits would have had the following impact on profit before tax, including resulting gains and losses on foreign exchange hedges.
10% increase 10% decrease 10% increase 10% decrease in sterling in sterling in sterling in sterling euro rate euro rate CAD$ rate CAD$ rate m m m m Impact on profit before tax 31 December 2017 78 95 6 7 Impact on profit before tax 31 December 2016 55 67 15 9 The balance sheet changes arise from retranslation of business unit statements of financial position from their functional currencies into sterling, with above movements being taken through the currency translation reserve.
These balance sheet movements in exchange rates therefore have no impact on profit.
Net asset and profit before tax figures are stated after taking account of the effect of currency hedging activities.
vi Derivatives risk Derivatives are used by a number of the businesses.
Derivatives are primarily used for efficient investment management, risk hedging purposes, or to structure specific retail savings products.
Activity is overseen by the Group Capital and Group Risk teams, which monitor exposure levels and approve large or complex transactions.
The Group applies strict requirements to the administration and valuation processes it uses, and has a control framework that is consistent with market and industry practice for the activity that is undertaken.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 206 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 56 Risk management continued vii Correlation risk The Group recognises that lapse behaviour and potential increases in consumer expectations are sensitive to and interdependent with market movements and interest rates.
These interdependencies are taken into consideration in the internal capital model and in scenario analysis.
d Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to make payments as they become due because there are insufficient assets in cash form.
The relatively illiquid nature of insurance liabilities is a potential source of additional investment return by allowing us to invest in higher yielding, but less liquid assets such as commercial mortgages.
The Group seeks to ensure that it maintains sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due through the application of a Group liquidity risk policy and business standard and through the development of its liquidity risk management plan.
At Group and business unit level, there is a liquidity risk appetite which requires that sufficient liquid resources be maintained to cover net outflows in a stress scenario.
In addition to the existing liquid resources and expected inflows, the Group maintains significant undrawn committed borrowing facilities 1,650 million from a range of leading international banks to further mitigate this risk.
Maturity analyses The following tables show the maturities of our insurance and investment contract liabilities, and of the financial and reinsurance assets held to meet them.
A maturity analysis of the contractual amounts payable for borrowings and derivatives is given in notes 49 and 57, respectively.
Contractual obligations under operating leases and capital commitments are given in note 53. i Analysis of maturity of insurance and investment contract liabilities For non-linked insurance business, the following table shows the gross liability at 31 December 2017 and 2016 analysed by remaining duration.
The total liability is split by remaining duration in proportion to the cash-flows expected to arise during that period, as permitted under IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts.
Almost all linked business and non-linked investment contracts may be surrendered or transferred on demand.
For such contracts, the earliest contractual maturity date is therefore the current statement of financial position date, for a surrender amount approximately equal to the current statement of financial position liability.
However, we expect surrenders, transfers and maturities to occur over many years, and therefore the tables below reflect the expected cash flows for these contracts, rather than their contractual maturity date.
This table includes assets held for sale.
On demand or Over Total within 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15 years At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Long-term business Insurance contracts non-linked 109,900 10,105 27,278 41,720 30,797 Investment contracts non-linked 71,948 5,370 17,088 26,300 23,190 Linked business 163,571 17,609 27,632 55,519 62,811 General insurance and health 16,794 6,877 6,838 2,462 617 Total contract liabilities 362,213 39,961 78,836 126,001 117,415 On demand or Over Total within 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years 15 years 1 At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Long-term business Insurance contracts non-linked 116,400 9,757 31,423 44,791 30,429 Investment contracts non-linked 73,112 5,358 17,050 27,568 23,136 Linked business 153,901 17,374 27,234 51,454 57,839 General insurance and health 16,488 6,761 6,594 2,448 685 Total contract liabilities 359,901 39,250 82,301 126,261 112,089 1 Following a review of the Groups analysis of maturity of insurance and investment contract liabilities, comparative amounts have been amended from those previously reported.
This has resulted in a reclassification of 2,363 million from liabilities held in connection with linked business to investment contracts linked business and an increase in the proportion of linked business contract liabilities with a maturity date which in excess of 15 years.
This reclassification has no impact on total contract liabilities reported at 31 December 2016.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 207 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 56 Risk management continued ii Analysis of maturity of financial assets The following table provides an analysis, by maturity date of the principal, of the carrying value of financial assets which are available to fund the repayment of liabilities as they crystallise.
This table excludes assets held for sale.
On demand or No fixed term Total within 1 year 1-5 years Over 5 years perpetual At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Debt securities 174,808 28,037 47,289 99,078 404 Equity securities 89,968 89,968 Other investments 46,306 40,500 364 4,680 762 Loans 27,857 1,651 5,053 21,149 4 Cash and cash equivalents 43,347 43,347 382,286 113,535 52,706 124,907 91,138 On demand or No fixed term Total within 1 year 1-5 years Over 5 years perpetual 1 At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Debt securities 178,970 24,293 49,061 105,448 168 Equity securities 72,042 72,042 Other investments 48,823 45,889 1,112 275 1,547 Loans 24,784 1,352 5,609 17,819 4 Cash and cash equivalents 38,708 38,708 363,327 110,242 55,782 123,542 73,761 1 Following a review of the Groups investment classifications, comparative amounts in respect of unit trusts and other investment vehicles and equity and debt securities have been amended from those previously reported.
The assets above are analysed in accordance with the earliest possible redemption date of the instrument at the initiation of the Group.
Where an instrument is transferable back to the issuer on demand, such as most unit trusts or similar types of investment vehicle, it is included in the On demand or within 1 year column.
Debt securities with no fixed contractual maturity date are generally callable at the option of the issuer at the date the coupon rate is reset under the contractual terms of the instrument.
The terms for resetting the coupon are such that we expect the securities to be redeemed at this date, as it would be uneconomic for the issuer not to do so, and for liquidity management purposes we manage these securities on this basis.
The first repricing and call date is normally ten years or more after the date of issuance.
Most of the Groups investments in equity securities and fixed maturity securities are market traded and therefore, if required, can be liquidated for cash at short notice.
e Life and health insurance risk Life insurance risk in the Group arises through its exposure to mortality risk and exposure to worse than anticipated operating experience on factors such as persistency levels, exercising of policy holder options and management and administration expenses.
The Groups health insurance business including private health insurance, critical illness cover, income protection and personal accident insurance, as well as a range of corporate healthcare products exposes the Group to morbidity risk the proportion of our customers falling sick and medical expense inflation.
The Group chooses to take measured amounts of life and health insurance risk provided that the relevant business has the appropriate core skills to assess and price the risk and adequate returns are available.
The Groups underwriting strategy and appetite is communicated via specific policy statements, related business standards and guidelines.
Life insurance risk is managed primarily at business unit level with oversight at the Group level.
The underlying risk profile of our life and health insurance risks, primarily persistency, longevity, mortality and expense risk, has remained stable during 2017, although the current continued relatively low levels of interest rates have increased our sensitivity to longevity shocks compared to historical norms.
We are also exposed to longevity risk through the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme, to which our economic exposure has been reduced since 2014 by entering into a longevity swap covering approximately 5 billion of pensioner in payment scheme liabilities.
Longevity risk remains the Groups most significant life insurance risk, while persistency risk remains significant and continues to have a volatile outlook with underlying performance linked to some degree to economic conditions.
However, businesses across the Group have continued to make progress with a range of customer retention activities.
The Group has continued to write considerable volumes of life protection business, and to utilise reinsurance to reduce exposure to potential losses.
More generally, life insurance risks are believed to provide a significant diversification against other risks in the portfolio.
Life insurance risks are modelled within the internal capital model and subject to sensitivity and stress and scenario testing.
The assumption and management of life and health insurance risks is governed by the Group-wide business standards covering underwriting, pricing, product design and management, in-force management, claims handling, and reinsurance.
The individual life and health insurance risks are managed as follows: Mortality and morbidity risks are mitigated by use of reinsurance.
The Group allows businesses to select reinsurers, from those approved by the Group, based on local factors, but retains oversight of the overall exposures and monitors that the aggregation of risk ceded is within credit risk appetite.
Longevity risk and internal experience analysis are monitored against the latest external industry data and emerging trends.
Whilst individual businesses are responsible for reserving and pricing for annuity business, the Group monitors the exposure to this risk and any associated capital implications.
The Group has used reinsurance solutions to reduce the risks from longevity and continually monitors and evaluates emerging market solutions to mitigate this risk further.
Persistency risk is managed at a business unit level through frequent monitoring of company experience, and benchmarked against local market information.
Generally, persistency risk arises from customers lapsing their policies earlier than has been assumed.
Where possible the financial impact of lapses is reduced through appropriate product design.
Businesses also implement specific initiatives to improve the retention of policies which may otherwise lapse.
The Group has developed guidelines on persistency management.
Expense risk is primarily managed by the business units through the assessment of business unit profitability and frequent monitoring of expense levels.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 208 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 56 Risk management continued Embedded derivatives The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in policyholder behaviour due to the exercise of options, guarantees and other product features embedded in its long-term savings products.
These product features offer policyholders varying degrees of guaranteed benefits at maturity or on early surrender, along with options to convert their benefits into different products on pre-agreed terms.
The extent of the impact of these embedded derivatives differs considerably between business units and exposes Aviva to changes in policyholder behaviour in the exercise of options as well as market risk.
Examples of each type of embedded derivative affecting the Group are: Options: call, put, surrender and maturity options, guaranteed annuity options, options to cease premium payment, options for withdrawals free of market value adjustment, annuity options, and guaranteed insurability options.
Guarantees: embedded floor guaranteed return, maturity guarantee, guaranteed death benefit, and guaranteed minimum rate of annuity payment.
Other: indexed interest or principal payments, maturity value, loyalty bonus.
The impact of these is reflected in the capital model and managed as part of the asset liability framework.
Further disclosure on financial guarantees and options embedded in contracts and their inclusion in insurance and investment contract liabilities is provided in note 42. f General insurance risk Types of risk General insurance risk in the Group arises from: Fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of claims and claim settlements relative to expectations: Unexpected claims arising from a single source or cause: Inaccurate pricing of risks or inappropriate underwriting of risks when underwritten: and Inadequate reinsurance protection or other risk transfer techniques.
Aviva has a preference for general insurance risk in measured amounts for explicit reward, in line with our core skills in underwriting and pricing.
The majority of the general insurance business underwritten by the Group continues to be short tail in nature such as motor, household and commercial property insurances.
General insurance risk is managed primarily at business unit level with oversight at the Group level.
Claims reserving is undertaken by local actuaries in the various general insurance businesses and is also subject to periodic external reviews.
Reserving processes are further detailed in note 40 insurance liabilities.
The vast majority of the Groups general insurance business is managed and priced in the same country as the domicile of the customer.
Management of general insurance risks Significant insurance risks will be reported under the risk management framework.
Additionally, the capital model is used to assess the risks that each general insurance business unit, and the Group as a whole, is exposed to, quantifying their impact and calculating appropriate capital requirements.
Business units have developed mechanisms that identify, quantify and manage accumulated exposures to contain them within the limits of the appetite of the Group.
The business units are assisted by the General Insurance Council which provides technical input for major decisions which fall outside individual delegated limits or escalations outside group risk preferences, group risk accumulation, concentration and profitability limits.
Reinsurance strategy Significant reinsurance purchases are reviewed annually at both business unit and Group level to verify that the levels of protection being bought reflect any developments in exposure and the risk appetite of the Group.
The basis of these purchases is underpinned by analysis of capital, earnings and capital volatility, cash flow and liquidity and the Groups franchise value.
Detailed actuarial analysis is used to calculate the Groups extreme risk profile and then design cost and capital efficient reinsurance programmes to mitigate these risks to within agreed appetites.
For businesses writing general insurance we analyse the natural catastrophe exposure using our own internal probabilistic catastrophe model which is benchmarked against external catastrophe models widely used by the rest of the re insurance industry.
The Group cedes much of its worldwide catastrophe risk to third-party reinsurers through excess of loss and aggregate excess of loss structures.
The Group purchases a group-wide catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against catastrophe losses exceeding a 1 in 200 year return period.
The total Group potential retained loss from its most concentrated catastrophe exposure peril Northern Europe Windstorm is approximately 150 million on a per occurrence basis and 175 million on an annual aggregate basis.
Any losses above these levels are covered by the group-wide catastrophe reinsurance programme to a level in excess of a 1 in 200 year return period.
In addition the Group purchases a number of GI business line specific reinsurance programmes with various retention levels to protect both capital and earnings, and has reinsured 100% of its latent exposures to its historic UK employers liability and public liability business written prior to 31 December 2000. g Asset management risk Aviva is directly exposed to the risks associated with operating an asset management business through its ownership of Aviva Investors.
The underlying risk profile of our asset management risk is derived from investment performance, specialist investment professionals and leadership, product development capabilities, fund liquidity, margin, client retention, regulatory developments, fiduciary and contractual responsibilities.
Funds invested in illiquid assets such as commercial property are particularly exposed to liquidity risk.
The risk profile is regularly monitored.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 209 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 56 Risk management continued A client relationship team is in place to manage client retention risk, while all new asset management products undergo a review and approval process at each stage of the product development process, including approvals from legal, compliance and risk functions.
Investment performance against client objectives relative to agreed benchmarks is monitored as part of our investment performance and risk management process, and subject to further independent oversight and challenge by a specialist risk team, reporting directly to the Aviva Investors Chief Risk Officer.
h Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss, arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events including changes in the regulatory environment.
We have limited appetite for operational risk and aim to reduce these risks as far as is commercially sensible.
Our business units are primarily responsible for identifying and managing operational risks within their businesses, within the groupwide operational risk framework including the risk and control self-assessment process.
Businesses must be satisfied that all material risks falling outside our risk tolerances are being mitigated, monitored and reported to an appropriate level.
Any risks with a high potential impact are monitored centrally on a regular basis.
Businesses use key indicator data to help monitor the status of the risk and control environment.
They also identify and capture loss events, taking appropriate action to address actual control breakdowns and promote internal learning.
i Brand and reputation risk We are exposed to the risk that litigation, employee misconduct, operational failures, the outcome of regulatory investigations, media speculation and negative publicity, disclosure of confidential client information, inadequate services, whether or not founded, could impact our brands or reputation.
Any of our brands or our reputation could also be affected if products or services recommended by us or any of our intermediaries do not perform as expected whether or not the expectations are founded or customers expectations for the product change.
We seek to reduce this risk to as low a level as commercially sensible.
The FCA regularly considers whether we are meeting the requirement to treat our customers fairly and we make use of various metrics to assess our own performance, including customer advocacy, retention and complaints.
Failure to meet these requirements could also impact our brands or reputation.
If we do not manage the perception of our brands and reputation successfully, it could cause existing customers or agents to withdraw from our business and potential customers or agents to choose not to do business with us.
j Risk and capital management i Sensitivity test analysis The Group uses a number of sensitivity tests to understand the volatility of earnings, the volatility of its capital requirements, and to manage its capital more efficiently.
Sensitivities to economic and operating experience are regularly produced on the Groups key financial performance metrics to inform the Groups decision making and planning processes, and as part of the framework for identifying and quantifying the risks to which each of its business units, and the Group as a whole, are exposed.
ii Life insurance and investment contracts The nature of long-term business is such that a number of assumptions are made in compiling these financial statements.
Assumptions are made about investment returns, expenses, mortality rates and persistency in connection with the in-force policies for each business unit.
Assumptions are best estimates based on historic and expected experience of the business.
A number of the key assumptions for the Groups central scenario are disclosed elsewhere in these statements.
iii General insurance and health business General insurance and health claim liabilities are estimated by using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
These methods extrapolate the claims development for each accident year based on the observed development of earlier years.
In most cases, no explicit assumptions are made as projections are based on assumptions implicit in the historic claims.
iv Sensitivity test results Illustrative results of sensitivity testing for long-term business, general insurance and health business and the fund management and noninsurance business are set out below.
For each sensitivity test the impact of a reasonably possible change in a single factor is shown, with other assumptions left unchanged.
Sensitivity factor Description of sensitivity factor applied Interest rate and investment return The impact of a change in market interest rates by a 1% increase or decrease.
The test allows consistently for similar changes to investment returns and movements in the market value of backing fixed interest securities.
Credit spreads The impact of a 0.5% increase in credit spreads over risk-free interest rates on corporate bonds and other non-sovereign credit assets.
The test allows for any consequential impact on liability valuations.
Equity property market values The impact of a change in equity property market values by 10%.
Expenses The impact of an increase in maintenance expenses by 10%.
Assurance mortality morbidity life insurance only The impact of an increase in mortality morbidity rates for assurance contracts by 5%.
Annuitant mortality long-term insurance only The impact of a reduction in mortality rates for annuity contracts by 5%.
Gross loss ratios non-long-term insurance only The impact of an increase in gross loss ratios for general insurance and health business by 5%.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 210 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Notes to the consolidated financial statements Continued 56 Risk management continued Long-term business Sensitivities as at 31 December 2017 Equity Equity Assurance Annuitant Interest rates Interest rates Credit spreads property property Expenses mortality mortality 31 December 2017 Impact on profit before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% -5% Insurance participating 45 25 15 20 40 25 5 10 Insurance non-participating 475 485 790 135 115 215 105 905 Investment participating 10 5 5 15 Investment non-participating 10 5 10 10 30 Assets backing life shareholders' funds 90 115 25 20 20 Total 610 625 840 130 45 285 110 915 Equity Equity Assurance Annuitant Interest rates Interest rates Credit spreads property property Expenses mortality mortality 31 December 2017 Impact on shareholders' equity before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% -5% Insurance participating 45 25 15 20 40 25 5 10 Insurance non-participating 475 485 790 135 115 215 105 905 Investment participating 10 5 5 15 Investment non-participating 10 5 10 10 30 Assets backing life shareholders' funds 150 175 35 20 20 Total 670 685 850 130 45 285 110 915 Sensitivities as at 31 December 2016 Equity Equity Assurance Annuitant Interest rates Interest rates Credit spreads property property Expenses mortality mortality 31 December 2016 Impact on profit before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% -5% Insurance Participating 50 30 10 130 65 30 5 15 Insurance non-participating 190 20 775 35 10 190 90 920 Investment participating 10 5 5 5 Investment non-participating 10 15 50 70 65 Assets backing life shareholders' funds 115 190 10 85 85 Total 355 230 780 200 90 290 95 935 Equity Equity Assurance Annuitant Interest rates Interest rates Credit spreads property property Expenses mortality mortality 31 December 2016 Impact on shareholders' equity before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% -5% Insurance Participating 50 30 10 130 65 30 5 15 Insurance non-participating 190 20 775 35 10 190 90 920 Investment participating 10 5 5 5 Investment non-participating 10 15 50 70 65 Assets backing life shareholders' funds 155 230 5 85 85 Total 395 270 785 200 90 290 95 935 Changes in sensitivities between 2017 and 2016 reflect underlying movements in the value of assets and liabilities, the relative duration of assets and liabilities and asset liability management actions.
The sensitivities to economic and demographic movements relate mainly to business in the UK.
General insurance and health business sensitivities as at 31 December 2017 Equity Equity Gross loss Interest rates Interest rates Credit spreads property property Expenses ratios 31 December 2017 Impact on profit before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% Gross of reinsurance 285 300 130 165 165 120 335 Net of reinsurance 345 355 130 165 165 120 325 Equity Equity Gross loss Interest rates Interest rates Credit spreads property property Expenses ratios 31 December 2017 Impact on shareholders' equity before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% Gross of reinsurance 285 300 130 165 165 25 335 Net of reinsurance 345 355 130 165 165 25 325 Sensitivities as at 31 December 2016 Equity Equity Gross loss Interest rates Interest rates Credit spreads property property Expenses ratios 31 December 2016 Impact on profit before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% Gross of reinsurance 315 320 145 85 85 115 340 Net of reinsurance 385 375 145 85 85 115 320 Equity Equity Gross loss Interest rates Interest rates Credit spreads property property Expenses ratios 31 December 2016 Impact on shareholders' equity before tax m 1% -1% 0.5% 10% -10% 10% 5% Gross of reinsurance 315 320 145 85 85 25 340 Net of reinsurance 385 375 145 85 85 25 320 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 211
