204 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Key contacts and advisers Group Company Secretary Corporate solicitors Michael Arnaouti, FCIS Ashurst LLP michael.
com Broadwalk House 5 Appold Street London Registered office EC2A 2HA National Express Group PLC National Express House Financial advisers Birmingham Coach Station Mill Lane Bank of America Merrill Lynch Birmingham 2 King Edward Street B5 6DD London EC1A 1HQ Tel: 44 0 8450 130 130 www.
com Brokers Bank of America Merrill Lynch Registered in England and Wales No.
2590560 2 King Edward Street London Registrar EC1A 1HQ Equiniti Group PLC Aspect House HSBC Bank plc Spencer Road 8 Canada Square Lancing London West Sussex E14 5HA BN99 6DA Tel: 0371 384 2152 International dialling: 44 0 121 415 7047 Textel: 0371 384 2255 www.
co. uk Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls from outside the UKwill be charged at the applicable international rate.
Auditor Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ Tel: 44 0 20 7583 1198 www.
com Cautionary statement This Annual Report and National Expresss website may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to National Express Group PLC Company or Group and the Groups financial condition, results of its operations and business, and certain plans, strategy, objectives, goals and expectations with respect to these items and the economies and markets in which the Group operates.
This Annual Report and Accounts is printed on Titan Silk & UPM Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified FineOffset which are both certified by the FSC.
by their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, will, would, expects, believes, Printed by Park Communications who are certified to ISO 14001, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates or, in each case, their the standard for environmental management.
negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forwardlooking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
By their If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain very nature, forward-looking statements are inherently unpredictable, it, please dispose ofit in your recycled paper waste.
speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Groups ability to control or estimate precisely.
There are a number of such factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are Consultancy, design and production not limited to, changes in the political conditions, economies and www.
co. uk markets in which the Group operates including the outcome of the negotiations to leave the EU : changes in the legal, regulatory and Photography by Janie Airey competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact of legal Print managed by urbanprintsupport.
co. uk or other proceedings against or which affect the Group: changes in accounting practices and interpretation of accounting standards under IFRS, and changes in interest and exchange rates.
Any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report or National Expresss website, or made subsequently, which are Design and production attributable to the Company or any other member of the Group, or www.
co. uk persons acting on their behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date it is made.
Except as required by its legal or statutory obligations, the Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report or National Expresss website should be construed as a profit forecast or an invitation to deal in the securities of the Company.
National Express Group PLC, Annual Report 2017 Investing for excellence and growth National Express Group PLC National Express House Mill Lane Digbeth Birmingham B5 6DD Tel: 44 0 8450 130130 www.
