Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 119 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 119 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 1 Corporate information The Consolidated Financial Statements of National Express Group PLC and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 1 March 2018.
National Express Group PLC is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are described in the Strategic Report that accompanies these Financial Statements.
2 Accounting policies Statement of compliance These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted by the European Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Basis of preparation These Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis see Group Finance Directors Review on page 19 under the historical cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale investments.
Prior year figures in the Group Income Statement and related notes have been restated to present separately the amounts relating to operations classified as discontinued in the current year.
For further details see note 11.
These Financial Statements are presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied in preparing these Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 is set out below.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
i Critical accounting judgements Pensions defined benefit assets Judgement is required regarding the application of IFRIC 14 and the extent to which the Group can recognise defined benefit assets.
Changes in this judgement could significantly impact the value of defined benefit pension balances recognised.
National Express Group PLC operates a defined benefit scheme, which at year end was in a net surplus position as disclosed in note 34.
Based on the terms and conditions of the scheme, and from consultation with independent advisers, the Group determined that an ultimate future economic benefit exists in the form of a refund or a reduction in future contributions.
The surplus has therefore been recognised in full.
ii Key sources of estimation uncertainty Pensions assumptions Determining the amount of the Groups retirement benefit obligations and the net costs of providing such benefits requires estimates to be made concerning long-term interest rates, inflation, salary and pension increases, investment returns and longevity of current and future pensioners.
Changes in these estimates could significantly impact the amount of the obligations or the cost of providing such benefits.
The Group makes assumptions concerning these matters with the assistance of advice from independent qualified actuaries.
Details of the assumptions made are set out in note 34, to these Financial Statements along with their sensitivities.
Insurance and other claims The claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end for auto and general liability, workers compensation and environmental claims, the majority of which will be utilised in the next five years.
The estimation of the claims provision is based on an assessment of the expected settlement of known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the Balance Sheet date but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The Group makes assumptions concerning these judgemental matters with the assistance of advice from independent qualified actuaries.
In certain rare cases, additional disclosure regarding these claims may unfairly prejudice the Groups position and consequently this disclosure is not provided.
Given the differing types of claims, their size, the range of possible outcomes and the time involved in settling these claims, there is a reasonably possible chance that a material adjustment would be required to the carrying value of the claims provision in the next financial year.
These different factors also make it impracticable to provide sensitivity analysis on one single measure and its potential impact on the overall claims provision.
120 120 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 2 Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation These Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of National Express Group PLC and all its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Adjustments are made to bring any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist into line with the Groups accounting policies.
On acquisition of a business, the purchase method of accounting is adopted, and the Group Income Statement includes the results of subsidiaries and businesses purchased during the year from the date control is assumed.
The purchase consideration is allocated to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
On the sale of a business, the Group Income Statement includes the results of that business to the date of disposal.
Intra-Group transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of comprehensive income and equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the parent Company shareholders and is presented separately from parent shareholders equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Changes in accounting policies and the adoption of new and revised standards The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the following amendments to existing Standards which have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these Financial Statements.
Amendment to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses, and Amendment to IAS 7 Disclosure initiative Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities The amendment to IAS 7 requires a disclosure of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
This has been presented in note 37 b.
In order to provide a clear reconciliation to the new disclosure requirements of IAS 7, as well as to facilitate a clear reconciliation to the alternative cash performance measures in the Group Finance Directors Review, certain cash flows within the Group Statement of Cash Flows for the comparative period have been recategorised, with no net change to the total movement in cash and cash equivalents as previously reported.
Interests in joint ventures The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties to share control of other entities which represent joint ventures.
The Group recognises its interest in the entities assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
The Group Balance Sheet includes the appropriate share of these joint ventures net assets or liabilities and the Income Statement includes the appropriate share of their results after tax.
Financial statements of joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Adjustments are made in the Groups Financial Statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures.
The Group ceases to use the equity method from the date it no longer has joint control over the entity.
Interests in associates Companies, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the Group has an investment representing not less than 20% of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence are treated as associates.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the appropriate share of these associates results and net assets based on their latest financial statements under the equity method of accounting.
Income Statement presentation The Group Income Statement has been presented in a columnar format to enable users of the Financial Statements to view the normalised results of the Group.
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results excluding intangible amortisation for acquired businesses, US tax reform, profit for the year from discontinued operations and consequent UK restructuring.
The Board believes that this gives a more comparable year-on-year indication of the operating performance of the Group and allows the users of the financial statements to understand managements key performance measures.
Further details relating to separately disclosed items are provided in note 5.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 121 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 121 2 Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Rendering of services Revenue comprises income from road passenger transport, train passenger services and related activities in the UK, North America, Morocco and Europe.
Where relevant, amounts are shown net of rebates and sales tax.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.
UK and ALSA revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local transport authorities, which is recognised as the services are provided.
The relevant share of season ticket or travelcard income is deferred within liabilities and released to the Income Statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travelcard.
Rail revenue in Germany comprises passenger revenues and subsidy income receivable from the Public Transport Authorities.
Passenger revenue, which is allocated between the various transport providers in each region by the tariff authority responsible for that region, is recognised based on passenger counts, tariff authority estimates and historical trends.
Subsidy income is recognised over the life of each franchise based on contractual entitlements including, where appropriate, indexation and other adjustments made or expected to be made to the subsidy entitlement.
In accordance with IAS 20, the subsidy income recognised in each period reflects a systematic allocation of the total contractual subsidy entitlement, based on the expected profile of the underlying cost base which the subsidy is intended to compensate.
Our revenue policy is to only recognise revenue where receipt is considered probable.
North America revenue from school boards and similar contracts is recognised as the services are provided.
Finance income Finance income is recognised using the effective interest method.
Government grants Government grants relating to costs are recognised in the Income Statement on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Group recognises as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in liabilities as deferred income and are credited to the Income Statement over the expected useful economic life of the assets concerned.
Segmental reporting The Groups continuing reportable segments comprise: UK operates bus and coach services : German Rail: ALSA operates bus and coach services : and North America operates school bus and transit services.
These segments are described in more detail in the Business review accompanying these Financial Statements.
Central Functions is not a reportable segment but has been included in the segmental analysis in note 5 for transparency and to enable a reconciliation to the consolidated Group.
Each of the Groups reportable segments provide services of a similar nature and with similar economic characteristics.
For the UK and German Rail the distinct segments align directly with the geographical locations in which they operate.
The North America and ALSA business segments operate across more than one geographical location and as a result further sub-classifications of revenue and non-current assets are provided.
The UK division includes operations previously reported as two separate segments: UK Bus and UK Coach.
Following the discontinuation of UK Rail and the resulting simplified UK footprint, the Group has reorganised its UK management structure such that these businesses now report as one operating segment.
Prior period segmental information has been restated accordingly.
Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group are capitalised in the Balance Sheet as property, plant and equipment.
Finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase contracts and finance leases is included as a liability in the Balance Sheet.
The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the Income Statement over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
All material arrangements and transactions entered into by the Group are reviewed to check whether they contain elements that meet the accounting definition of a lease, although they may not follow the legal form of a lease.
122 122 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 2 Accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred except where they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Current tax and deferred tax Current tax is provided on taxable profits earned according to the local tax rates applicable where the profits are earned.
Income taxes are recognised in the Income Statement unless they relate to an item accounted for in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity, in which case the tax is recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the current tax are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full in respect of all material temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, apart from the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill: where an asset or liability is recognised in a transaction that is not a business combination and that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that future taxable profits will be available against which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and either represents a separate major line of business or geographical area: is part of a plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area: or was an acquired subsidiary intended for resale.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and presented as a single amount after tax.
Comparatives are also re-presented to reclassify the operation as discontinued.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately that meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets are capitalised at cost and when acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life assets are amortised on a straight-line basis and indefinite life assets are not amortised.
The amortisation expense is taken to the Income Statement through operating costs.
Finite life intangible assets have a residual value of nil and are amortised as follows: Customer contracts over the life of the contract between 1 and 33 years Contract mobilisation costs over the life of the franchise 15 years Software over the estimated useful life 3-7 years Computer software that is integral to a tangible fixed asset is recognised within property, plant and equipment.
Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment.
The useful lives of finite life intangible assets are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Finite life assets are reviewed for impairment where indicators of impairment exist.
The Groups only indefinite life intangible asset is goodwill.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 123 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 123 2 Accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at historical cost less any accumulated impairment.
If an acquisition gives rise to an excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost previously referred to as negative goodwill, this is credited immediately to the Income Statement.
In accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill is not amortised.
All goodwill is subject to an annual test of impairment and an impairment charge recognised as required.
Fair value accounting adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
Fair value adjustments based on provisional estimates are amended within one year of the acquisition if required, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, in order to refine adjustments to reflect further evidence gained post acquisition.
On disposal of a cash generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Land and buildings comprise mainly vehicle depots and garages, and offices.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years Long leasehold property improvements 15 to 40 years Public service vehicles 8 to 16 years Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 to 15 years Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the Income Statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on the derecognition of the asset is included in the Income Statement in the period of derecognition.
Impairment of non-financial assets All non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, except for goodwill which is reviewed annually.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows.
In assessing value in use, the estimated risk adjusted future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Except for goodwill impairments, a review is made at each reporting date of any previous impairment losses to assess whether they no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and any previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to assess the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased, subject to a limit of the assets net book value had no previous impairment loss been recognised.
Such reversal is recognised in the Income Statement.
Future depreciation or amortisation is then adjusted to allocate the assets revised carrying amount over its remaining useful economic life.
Impairments to goodwill cannot be reversed.
124 124 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 2 Accounting policies continued Financial instruments The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: and available-for-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the Income Statement.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are presented in the Income Statement within finance costs in the period in which they arise.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the Balance Sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the Balance Sheet date.
The Groups investments in entities that are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included in the Income Statement.
Where there is no active market for the Groups investments, fair value is determined using valuation techniques including recent commercial transactions and discounted cash flow analyses.
In the absence of any other reliable external information, assets are carried at cost or amortised cost as appropriate.
The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the Income Statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the Income Statement.
Financial liabilities When a financial liability is recognised initially, the Group measures it at its fair value.
Financial liabilities include trade payables, accruals, other payables, borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
In the case of a financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, an adjustment is made for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial liability.
Subsequent measurement depends on its classification as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities classified as held for trading and derivative liabilities that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
These liabilities are carried on the Balance Sheet at fair value with gains or losses being recognised in the Income Statement.
Other All other financial liabilities not classified as fair value through profit or loss are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 125 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 125 2 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as fuel derivatives, interest rate derivatives, foreign currency forward exchange contracts and cross currency swaps to hedge its risks associated with fuel price, interest rate fluctuations and foreign currency.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported Balance Sheet.
The fair value of the derivatives is calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the period end.
The Groups fuel derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity, with any material ineffective portion recognised in the Income Statement.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the Income Statement.
The Groups interest rate derivatives are designated as fair value hedges.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted through the Income Statement for the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, in this case movements in the risk free interest rate.
Foreign currency derivatives and cross currency swaps are used to hedge the Groups net investment in foreign currency denominated operations and to the extent they are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against foreign exchange exposure in the related assets and liabilities.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Income Statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
The Group also uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain transactional exposures.
These contracts are not hedge accounted and all gains and losses are taken directly to the Income Statement.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the Income Statement in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first in-first out basis, after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Contract mobilisation costs Costs associated with securing significant new franchises or contracts are expensed as incurred up to the point when a bid is awarded.
From this point in time, appropriate costs are recognised as an asset and are expensed to the Income Statement over the life of the contract.
Costs associated with the commencement of all other new contracts are expensed as incurred.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
Doubtful debts are provided for when collection of the full amount is no longer probable, while bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the Statement of Cash Flows comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other short-term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception, and bank overdrafts.
In the Consolidated Balance Sheet, cash includes cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts that have no legal right of set-off against cash and cash equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities.
Trade and other payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest-bearing borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost being the net fair value of the consideration received plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial asset or liability.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
126 126 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 2 Accounting policies continued Insurance The Groups policy is to self-insure high frequency claims within the businesses.
To provide protection above these types of losses, the Group purchases insurance cover from a selection of proven and financially strong insurers.
The insurance provision is based on estimated exposures at the year end principally for claims arising in the UK and North America prior to the year end date, subject to the overall deductible within the Groups insurance arrangements.
The majority of provisions will be utilised within five years, and the provisions have been discounted to take account of the expected timing of future cash settlements.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Group has a number of pension schemes, both of a defined benefit and defined contribution nature.
Full details are provided in note 34.
The Balance Sheet position in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises the net of the present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date and the fair value of plan assets.
Recognition of a net asset is limited so that it does not exceed the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the scheme or reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
The trustees complete a full actuarial valuation triennially, separately for each plan, but the obligation is updated annually for financial reporting purposes by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the obligation is determined by the estimated future cash outflows discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related liability.
Current service costs are recognised within operating costs in the Income Statement.
Past service gains and losses are also recognised within operating costs and in the period in which the related plan amendment or curtailment occurs.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and is recognised within finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to Other Comprehensive Income in the period in which they arise.
The charges in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised when they are due.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Share-based payment The Group awards equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the Group over a specified time period.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At each Balance Sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax discount rate.
The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Contingent liabilities are obligations that arise from past events that are dependent on future events.
They are disclosed in the notes to the Financial Statements where the expected future outflow is not probable.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 127 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 127 2 Accounting policies continued Share capital, share premium and dividends Where either the Company or employee share trusts purchase the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any transaction costs, is deducted from total shareholders equity as own shares until they are cancelled or re-issued.
Any consideration subsequently received on sale or re-issue is included in shareholders equity.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements on the date when dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Foreign currencies The trading results of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling, the presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of the parent, using average rates of exchange for the year as a reasonable approximation to actual exchange rates at the dates of transactions.
The balance sheets of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end and exchange differences arising are taken directly to the translation reserve in equity.
On disposal of a foreign currency denominated subsidiary, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the translation reserve since 1 January 2004 under the transitional rules of IFRS 1 relating to that entity is recognised in the Income Statement.
All other translation differences are taken to the Income Statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts which are used to provide a hedge against the Group net investments in foreign enterprises.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the Income Statement.
New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the Group has not applied the following standards that have been issued but are not yet effective: Title of standard IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Nature of change IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and fide-recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The standard also introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
Impact The Group has reviewed its financial assets and liabilities and is expecting the following impacts from the adoption of the new standard on 1 January 2018.
The new impairment model in IFRS 9 requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses rather than incurred credit losses under IAS 39.
For trade and other receivables we intend to apply the simplified approach as permitted by IFRS 9.
For significant portfolios of receivables we will determine the expected credit losses using the matrix method.
Based on initial assessment, our current expectation is that there will be a transitional increase in provisions of approximately 20m.
This amount will be finalised as we refine the new approach during 2018.
The change is primarily in relation to older dated contract receivables in ALSA and North America where the perceived risk of default is considered greater due to their age.
However, the increase purely reflects the requirement under IFRS 9 to make a forward looking assessment of risk of future default on existing receivables and does not reflect an actual increase in incurred credit losses.
Under IFRS 9 the Group will elect to recognise its available-for-sale investments at fair value through Other Comprehensive Income.
Due to the unquoted nature of these investments and the limited amount of reliable external information, these assets have been historically recognised at cost less impairment.
At 31 December 2017 the carrying value was 8.1m.
Under IFRS 9, management anticipates applying a transitional reduction to this carrying value of approximately 1.0m, reflecting a prudent approach to estimating the fair value of the investments using limited external information.
For hedge accounting we have assessed IFRS 9 and do not expect a material impact on the Groups financial statements, other than certain disclosure points as referred to below.
We anticipate that our hedging instruments will remain highly effective under IFRS 9 and the Group confirms that its current hedge relationships will qualify as continuing hedges upon the adoption of the new standard.
Changes in the fair value of certain hedging instruments relating to forward points and currency basis spread will continue to be deferred within equity and recognised against the related hedged transactions when they occur.
However, under IFRS 9 these movements will be separately stated within the financial instrument disclosures.
IFRS 9 introduces expanded disclosure requirements.
These are expected to change the extent of the Groups disclosures about its financial instruments, particularly in the year of the adoption of the new standard.
Date of adoption IFRS 9 will be adopted on 1 January 2018.
The Group will apply the new rules prospectively from 1 January 2018, with the practical transition expedients permitted for retrospective application taken where applicable.
No material restatements will be necessary for the comparative period.
128 128 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 2 Accounting policies continued Title of standard IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Nature of change IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 which currently covers the Groups accounting for contracts of goods and services.
IFRS 15 establishes principles for reporting the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
The new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer.
Impact The Group has performed an initial assessment of the effects of applying the new standard and has concluded that while there are minor areas of difference they are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Just over half of Group revenue is derived from documented contracts that cover periods of at least one year, with a significant remainder being ticket and other sales to travelling customers and shorter-term contracts such as private hire.
A sample of contracts has been reviewed against IFRS 15, particularly concerning the documented contracts that cover periods of at least one year, and further reviews are taking place in 2018.
The review to date has covered all major revenue stream contracts across the Group, including school bus and transit operations in North America, urban and intercity services in ALSA and subsidy and other contracted income in the UK.
Based on the assessment, management has concluded that revenues are being appropriately recognised across the periods of the contract, as the services are transferred to the customer.
Ticket sale revenue has also been assessed and confirmed to be compliant with the new standard, with revenue recognised when the passenger makes the journey or spread according to the term of the ticket, as appropriate.
Small instances of variable consideration, such as customer loyalty points, discounts and refunds exist, and are appropriately accounted for under the new standard.
Private hire operations are provided in the UK, ALSA and North America divisions and are typically of a short duration.
A review of revenue recognition for these services confirmed that it is in accordance with IFRS 15, with revenue recognised in the period in which the private hire is provided to the customer.
Date of adoption IFRS 15 will be adopted on 1 January 2018.
We are not anticipating a material impact to the Groups revenue recognition in future periods or any restatement necessary in the comparative period.
Title of standard IFRS 16 Leases Nature of change IFRS 16 will result in an increase in the number of leases being recognised on the balance sheet as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed.
Under the new standard, an asset the right to use the leased item and a financial liability to pay rentals will be recognised.
The income statement will also be affected, with the operating lease expense being replaced by a combination of depreciation on the right of use asset and interest on the financial liability.
Short-term and low-value leases are excluded and will continue to be charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Impact IFRS 16 will affect primarily the accounting for the Groups operating leases.
By way of reference, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments at year end of 603.9m see note 35.
This is a gross value and does not reflect the discounting of the commitments to their present value as required by IFRS 16.
The contracts will be assessed to ensure that these arrangements meet the definition of a lease under the new standard.
The Group estimates that only a small proportion relate to payments for short-term and low-value leases.
A project to assess the impact of IFRS 16 is underway and will complete in 2018.
This assessment is focusing on all of the Groups existing operating and finance leases, as well as considering any other contractual arrangements that may constitute a lease under the definitions of the new standard.
Due to the ongoing project, it is not yet possible to estimate the amount of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities that will have to be recognised on adoption of the new standard and how this may affect the Groups income statement and classification of cash flows going forward.
Date of adoption IFRS 16 will be adopted on 1 January 2019.
As part of the ongoing assessment, the Group is considering the transitional options and will formally conclude on this in the second half of 2018.
3 Revenue restated 2017 2016 m m Rendering of services 2,207.9 1,994.0 Government grants and subsidies 111.5 98.3 Rental income 1.8 1.4 Revenue 2,321.2 2,093.7 Finance income 10.0 7.5 Total revenue from continuing operations 2,331.2 2,101.2 Government grants and subsidies comprises franchise support in German Rail and subsidy income for bus services in the UK and ALSA.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 129 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 129 4 Exchange rates The most significant exchange rates to UK Sterling for the Group are as follows: 2017 2017 2016 2016 Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate US Dollar 1.35 1.29 1.23 1.36 Canadian Dollar 1.70 1.67 1.66 1.80 Euro 1.13 1.14 1.17 1.22 If the results for the year to 31 December 2016 had been retranslated at the average exchange rates for the year to 31 December 2017, North America would have achieved normalised operating profit of 88.5m on revenue of 924.3m, compared with normalised operating profit of 84.0m on revenue of 877.2m as reported, and ALSA would have achieved a normalised operating profit of 90.8m on revenue of 640.5m, compared with normalised operating profit of 84.7m on revenue of 597.3m as reported.
5 Segmental analysis The Groups reportable segments have been determined based on reports issued to and reviewed by the Group Executive Committee, and are organised in accordance with the geographical regions in which they operate and nature of services that they provide.
Management considers the Group Executive Committee to be the chief decision-making body for deciding how to allocate resources and for assessing operating performance.
The principal services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues are as follows: UK Bus and coach operations German Rail Rail operations ALSA predominantly Spain and Morocco Bus and coach operations North America USA and Canada School bus and transit bus operations Further details on the activities of each segment are described in the Strategic Report.
Revenue is analysed by reportable segment as follows: Segment Segment revenue revenue restated 2017 2016 m m UK revenue 561.5 557.9 German Rail 79.0 61.3 ALSA 663.5 597.3 North America 1,017.2 877.2 Overseas revenue 1,759.7 1,535.8 Total revenue 2,321.2 2,093.7 There are no material inter-segment sales between reportable segments.
No single external customer amounts to 10% or more of the total revenue.
Due to the nature of the Groups businesses, the origin and destination of revenue is the same.
Revenue in North America comprises 934.1m 2016: 798.7m in the USA and 83.1m 2016: 78.5m in Canada.
Revenue in the UK comprises 273.8m 2016: 275.1m of external revenue from bus operations and 287.7m 2016: 282.8m from coach operations.
Previously, these amounts were reported as the UK Bus and UK Coach segments respectively.
130 130 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 5 Segmental analysis continued Operating profit is analysed by reportable segment as follows: Intangible Normalised Intangible Normalised amortisation operating amortisation Segment operating for acquired UK Segment profit for acquired result profit businesses restructuring result restated businesses restated 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m m UK 70.9 5.6 64.6 67.3 0.4 66.9 0.7 German Rail 5.2 4.2 1.5 0.8 2.3 1.0 ALSA 94.9 10.0 84.9 84.7 9.5 75.2 North America 94.3 68.0 84.0 23.0 61.0 26.3 Central functions 23.8 23.8 17.0 0.1 17.1 Operating profit from continuing operations 241.5 197.9 217.5 33.8 183.7 38.0 5.6 Share of results from associates and joint ventures 3.5 3.5 1.1 1.1 Net finance costs 50.0 50.0 38.0 38.0 5.6 Profit before tax 200.0 38.0 156.4 168.6 33.8 134.8 Tax charge 19.9 28.0 Profit after tax for the year from continuing operations 128.4 114.9 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 5.9 5.1 Profit for the year 134.3 120.0 As disclosed in note 11, in February 2017 the Group disposed of its final UK rail franchise, c2c, as part of a broader UK strategic review in which the Group discontinued all activity in UK Rail.
Consequent on this exit and given the simplified UK footprint, the Group also reorganised its UK management structure to reduce costs and facilitate better, clearer decision-making.
The cost in the year relating to this restructuring was 5.6m.
Depreciation is analysed by reportable segment as follows: 2017 2016 m m UK 21.8 20.0 German Rail 0.2 0.1 ALSA 39.3 35.6 North America 73.6 65.9 Central functions 0.7 0.8 Total 135.6 122.4 Included in note 15 for 2016 is deprecation of 0.6m in relation to discontinued UK rail operations.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 131 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 131 5 Segmental analysis continued Non-current assets and additions are analysed by reportable segment as follows: Property, Total Non-current Property, Total Non-current Intangible Intangible plant and non-current asset plant and non-current asset assets assets equipment assets additions equipment assets additions 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m UK 21.8 191.8 213.6 29.2 13.3 200.1 213.4 42.9 Central Functions 7.9 2.2 10.1 1.0 10.9 2.8 13.7 0.5 Total UK 29.7 194.0 223.7 30.2 24.2 202.9 227.1 43.4 German Rail 15.4 0.7 16.1 2.4 14.0 0.2 14.2 4.7 ALSA 866.2 321.2 1,187.4 49.8 822.2 305.7 1,127.9 61.2 North America 722.1 452.3 1,174.4 97.0 688.2 474.8 1,163.0 80.5 Total overseas 1,603.7 774.2 2,377.9 149.2 1,524.4 780.7 2,305.1 146.4 Total 1,633.4 968.2 2,601.6 179.4 1,548.6 983.6 2,532.2 189.8 Included in note 15 for 2016 are non-current asset additions of 9.0m in relation to discontinued UK rail operations.
Total non-current assets in ALSA comprises 1,152.7m 2016: 1,096.6m in Spain, 22.5m 2016: 26.2m in Morocco and 12.2m 5.1m in Switzerland.
Total non-current assets in North America comprises 1,039.4m 2016: 1,017.9m in USA and 135.0m 2016: 145.1m in Canada.
Information reported to the Group Executive Team does not regularly include an analysis of assets and liabilities by segment.
6 Operating costs restated 2017 2016 m m Cost of inventories recognised in expense 81.2 72.1 Staff costs 1,161.6 1,020.7 Depreciation Owned assets 107.8 101.4 Leased assets 27.8 21.0 Intangible asset amortisation 41.6 33.8 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 1.0 0.5 Operating lease charges Rolling stock: non-capital element 13.2 11.7 Public service vehicles 14.5 11.9 Other 12.8 11.4 Plant and equipment 40.5 35.0 Land and buildings 29.0 23.9 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.1 Other charges 634.9 602.7 Total operating costs 2,123.3 1,910.0 An analysis of fees paid to the Groups auditor is provided below: 2017 2016 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the consolidated and parent Company accounts 0.4 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.8 0.8 Other services 0.1 0.2 1.3 1.3 132 132 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 7 Employee benefit costs a Staff costs restated 2017 2016 m m Wages and salaries 1,010.8 887.5 Social security costs 136.8 122.0 Pension costs note 34 8.7 7.4 Share-based payment note 8 5.3 3.8 1,161.6 1,020.7 The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year was as follows: restated 2017 2016 Managerial and administrative 4,347 4,237 Operational 41,917 40,740 46,264 44,977 Included in the above costs are the following costs related to the Groups key management personnel who comprise the Executive Directors of the parent Company.
For 2017, there are three Executive Directors 2016: two Executive Directors.
Further details are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report: 2017 2016 m m Basic salaries 1.2 0.9 Benefits 0.7 0.3 Performance-related bonuses 2.0 1.4 Share-based payment 2.1 1.5 6.0 4.1 b Share schemes Details of options or awards outstanding at the end of the year under the Groups share schemes are as follows: Number of Number of Future share options share options Exercise exercise 2017 2016 price periods Long-Term Incentive Plan 6,162,640 7,444,991 nil 2018-2022 WMT Long Service Option Scheme 183,883 215,367 129p-590p 2018-2027 Executive Deferred Bonus Plan 123,341 169,828 nil 2018 6,469,864 7,830,186 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 133 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 133 7 Employee benefit costs continued b Share schemes continued i Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP was introduced in 2005 on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee to replace the annual award under the Executive Share Option Plan to Executive Directors and to certain senior employees.
Under the LTIP, a Performance Award to acquire a specified number of free shares may be made to the employee or Director.
Performance conditions are attached to the vesting of Performance Awards based on the achievement of target growth in earnings per share EPS, return on capital employed ROCE and the relative total shareholder return TSR of the Company against a comparator group of companies.
If the performance conditions are met, Performance Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to two years following the vesting date.
There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.
Since 2011, HMRC approved share option plans have been added as an appendix to the LTIP Approved Plan.
A participant can only hold an option under the Approved Plan over shares with a market value of up to 30,000 at the grant date.
Options under the Approved Plan are granted in tandem with the usual options under the LTIP.
The options are structured such that on exercise, the proportion of the gain in respect of the first 30,000 worth of shares as measured at the date of grant will be delivered under the Approved Plan and the LTIP option shall be scaled back to deliver the remaining gross gain that would have been delivered had the option been granted alone.
The excess shares under the LTIP will be forfeited such that both awards will never become fully vested.
From 2012 to 2014, a supplementary five-year long-term incentive award was granted to the Chief Executive subject to targets linked to the Groups five-year plan.
This comprised a Performance Award with no matching element.
If performance conditions are met, the Performance Award will vest on the fifth anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to 12 months following the vesting date.
ii West Midlands Travel Ltd WMT Long Service Option Scheme The WMT Long Service Option Scheme utilises a fixed amount of shares set aside for this purpose following the acquisition of WMT in 1995 and is open to all WMT employees who have been in service for more than 25 years.
The options are exercisable between three and ten years following the grant date.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
iii TWM Share Incentive Plan the SIP The TWM SIP exists for the benefit of WMT employees.
At the end of the year, 1,079 2016: 1,079 National Express Group PLC shares were held for the benefit of the Trustee.
Dividends on shares held in the SIP forfeited shares account are waived.
iv Executive Deferred Bonus Plan As detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report, the Committee considered it appropriate for bonuses awarded in respect of the calendar year to be deferred for a period of one year and that these would vest, subject to the terms of the award and the relevant Directors continuing employment.
The deferred forfeitable ordinary shares are awarded under the terms of the National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan which was adopted by the Board of the Company on 10 March 2009.
The principal terms of awards under the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan are summarised below: Awards under the Plan may be cash awards, conditional awards or forfeitable shares awards Awards normally vest one year from the date of grant, subject to the relevant Directors continued employment with the Company The Committee may decide that participants shall be entitled to receive a benefit determined by reference to the value of the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the grant date and the date of vesting The awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment save in certain compassionate good leaver circumstances eg death or disability In the event of a variation of the share capital of the Company, the Committee may make such adjustments to the awards as it considers appropriate.
134 134 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 8 Share-based payments The charge in respect of share-based payment transactions included in the Groups Income Statement for the year is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Expense arising from share and share option plans continuing operations 5.3 3.8 During the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group had four share-based payment arrangements, which are described in note 7 b.
For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted average exercise prices.
The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of share price of share price options p options p Options without a nil exercise price: At 1 January 215,367 323 266,592 359 Granted during the year 12,600 364 24,462 329 Forfeited during the year 4,693 284 8,537 299 Exercised during the year 249 7,119 253 13,789 Expired during the year 583 60,031 497 25,602 Outstanding at 31 December 183,883 295 215,367 323 Exercisable at 31 December 84,986 275 97,957 352 Options with a nil exercise price: At 1 January 7,614,819 nil 8,733,790 nil Granted during the year 2,205,273 nil 2,244,630 nil Forfeited during the year nil 185,626 nil 606,359 Exercised during the year 2,759,291 nil 2,415,519 nil Expired during the year 168,461 nil 762,456 nil Outstanding at 31 December 6,285,981 nil 7,614,819 nil Exercisable at 31 December nil nil Total outstanding at 31 December 6,469,864 7,830,186 Total exercisable at 31 December 84,986 97,957 The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had exercise prices that were between 129p and 590p 2016: between 129p and 599p excluding options with a nil exercise price.
The range of exercise prices for options was as follows: 2017 2016 Exercise price p Number Number 0-350 161,122 178,704 351-600 22,761 36,663 183,883 215,367 The options have a weighted average contractual life of one year 2016: one year.
Options were exercised regularly throughout the year and the weighted average share price at exercise was 361p 2016: 347p.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 135 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 135 8 Share-based payments continued The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the following assumptions and inputs: Share options without Share options with nil exercise price nil exercise price 2017 2016 2017 2016 Risk free interest rate 0.44% 0.84% 0.11% 0.37% Expected volatility 25% 26.0% 22.0% 22.0% Peer group volatility 28.0%-29.0% 23.0%-25.0% Expected option life in years 5 years 5 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 3.42% 3.42% 0.0% 0.0% Weighted average share price at grant date 359p 332p 359p 347p Weighted average exercise price at grant date 364p 329p nil nil Weighted average fair value of options at grant date 49p 52p 291p 312p Experience to date has shown that approximately 24% 2016: 24% of options are exercised early, principally due to leavers.
This has been incorporated into the calculation of the expected option life for the share options without nil exercise price.
Expected volatility in the table above was determined from historical volatility over the last eight years, adjusted for one-off events that were not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward.
The expected dividend yield represents the dividends declared in the 12 months preceding the date of the grant divided by the average share price in the month preceding the date of the grant.
For share options granted during the year under the LTIP, the TSR targets have been reflected in the calculation of the fair value of the options above.
9 Net finance costs 2017 2016 m m Bond and bank interest payable 38.0 50.3 Finance lease interest payable 3.5 3.9 Other interest payable 2.7 1.5 Unwind of provision discounting 1.2 1.3 Net interest cost on defined benefit pension obligations 2.1 1.0 Finance costs 57.5 48.0 Other financial income 10.0 7.5 Net finance costs 50.0 38.0 Of which, from financial instruments: Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 40.7 51.1 Derivatives 9.3 7.5 Loan fee amortisation 2.7 1.2 136 136 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 10 Taxation a Analysis of taxation charge in the year 2016 2017 m m Current taxation: UK corporation tax 5.0 0.5 Overseas taxation 14.5 9.9 Current income tax charge 19.5 10.4 Adjustments with respect to prior years UK and overseas 1.2 6.9 Total current income tax charge 20.7 3.5 Deferred taxation note 27 : Origination and reversal of temporary differences continuing operations 19.5 19.6 Adjustments with respect to prior years UK and overseas 1.9 13.7 Deferred tax charge 5.8 17.7 Total tax charge for the Group 26.5 21.2 Amounts relating to discontinued items 1.5 1.3 Total tax charge for the continuing Group 28.0 19.9 The tax charge for the continuing Group is disclosed as follows: Tax charge on profit before separately disclosed items 48.0 31.4 Tax credit on separately disclosed items 11.5 20.0 28.0 19.9 The tax credit on separately disclosed items of 20.0m comprises an 11.4m tax credit on intangibles, a 7.5m net credit in relation to the US tax rate reduction see note 10 c and a tax credit of 1.1m for other items.
The tax relief relating to intangible amortisation is determined by reference to the tax rates in the jurisdiction to which the intangible amortisation relates.
The effective tax rate relating to intangible amortisation is significantly higher than the UK tax rate of 19.25% due to the weighting of intangibles in jurisdictions with higher tax rates than the UK, specifically the US 40% and Spain 25%.
b Tax on items recognised in Other Comprehensive Income or Equity 2017 2016 m m Current taxation: Credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 1.0 1.0 Deferred taxation: Deferred tax credit on actuarial losses 2.1 8.0 Deferred tax charge on cash flow hedges 12.2 3.4 Deferred tax credit on foreign exchange differences 14.3 Deferred tax charge on share-based payments 1.6 0.7 2.9 9.4 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 137 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 137 10 Taxation continued c Reconciliation of the total tax charge 2017 2016 m m 134.8 Profit before income tax continuing Group 156.4 26.9 Notional charge at UK corporation tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20.00% 30.1 Recurring items: 0.2 Non-deductible goodwill impairment 1.6 1.3 Non-deductible intangible amortisation 0.1 9.2 Effect of overseas tax rates 11.0 4.2 Tax incentives 4.9 Non-recurring items: 6.2 Overseas financing deductions 3.0 1.7 Adjustments to prior years within current and deferred tax excluding movements in tax provisions 2.1 0.8 7.3 Release of tax provisions 1.2 Effect of reduction in tax rates 7.5 1.1 Non-deductible expenditure 2.6 0.5 Non-taxable income 1.0 Non-creditable withholding tax 0.1 0.1 Utilisation of a deferred tax asset for previously unrecognised tax losses Total tax charge reported in the Income Statement note 10 a 28.0 19.9 Included within the tax reconciliation are a number of non-recurring items, the effect of a reduction in tax rates and the release of tax provisions.
Items expected to recur in the tax reconciliation for 2018 include the difference in rates between the UK and our overseas markets, tax incentives on re-investment credits and the merger of our Spanish businesses.
The UK corporation tax rates has reduced in the year from 20.00% to 19.25% due to a reduction in the UK statutory corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017.
On 22 December 2017, the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 2017 was signed into law.
The main change was to reduce the US federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% from 1 January 2018.
At the Balance Sheet date, the 21% rate 2016: 35% was substantively enacted.
This change in rate has resulted in a net tax credit of 7.5m to the Income Statement.
In the prior year, the tax charge arising from changes in tax rates of 1.2m related to UK tax rate changes.
d Tax provisions At 31 December 2016, the Group held tax provisions of 5.4m to cover tax uncertainties across our various markets.
All UK corporation tax returns up to 2015 have been submitted and agreed by HMRC except for one outstanding matter.
At 31 December 2017, the Group held tax provisions of 9.6m, representing a number of tax uncertainties such as the deductibility of interest expense in the UK and Spain and the Moroccan tax audits.
There has been a net increase of 4.2m which represents the release of tax reserves where the statute of limitation has closed as well an increase of tax reserves relating to risks in our North American business.
Based on the experience of the Group Tax department and after discussions of the various tax uncertainties with our tax advisers, the year end tax provision represents managements best estimate of the tax uncertainties of which we are aware.
The provision for the Groups tax uncertainties of 9.6m is included in current tax liabilities.
e Temporary differences associated with Group investments No deferred tax 2016: nil is recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as the Group has determined that these undistributed profits will not be distributed in the near future.
As a result of changes to tax legislation in 2009, overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 are generally exempt from UK corporation tax, but may be subject to withholding tax.
There are no temporary differences 2016: nil associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised but for which a tax liability may arise.
f Unrecognised tax losses Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit against future taxable profits is probable.
Based on current forecasts, it is estimated that the losses recognised for deferred tax purposes will be utilised within three to four years.
UK and overseas deferred tax assets that the Group has not recognised in the Financial Statements relates to gross losses of 17.7m 2016: 16.5m, which arise in tax jurisdictions where the Group does not expect to generate sufficient suitable future taxable profits.
The majority of the unrecognised losses relates to UK entities where it is uncertain when, or if, the losses will be utilised.
138 138 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 10 Taxation continued g Deferred tax included in the Income Statement 2017 2016 m m 28.2 Accelerated capital allowances 4.8 Other short-term temporary differences 4.2 0.9 6.4 11.4 Utilisation recognition of losses Deferred tax charge 5.8 17.7 Details on the Balance Sheet position of deferred tax are included in note 27. h Factors that may affect future tax charges There are no known significant factors that may affect future tax charges.
11 Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale As previously announced, on 10 February 2017 the Group disposed of its only UK rail franchise, National Express Essex Thameside c2c, to Trenitalia and as a result has recognised all UK rail operating activity as discontinued.
On 22 March 2017, Transport for West Midlands announced its intention to take over the running of the Midland Metro tram operations at the end of the current franchise.
We have therefore also shown this as discontinued.
Prior period figures have been restated to present separately the above operations as discontinued.
Details of the discontinued operations are as follows: restated 2017 2016 m m Revenue 29.7 185.5 Operating costs 179.1 31.2 Trading loss profit before tax 6.4 1.5 One-off costs relating to discontinued operations 7.0 Gross profit on disposal of discontinued operations 12.9 Net profit from discontinued operations before tax 4.4 6.4 Attributable income tax credit expense 1.5 1.3 Net profit from discontinued operations attributable to equity shareholders 5.9 5.1 Details of assets and liabilities held for sale in the prior year, which relate to c2c, are disclosed in the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The net cash flows incurred by the discontinued operations during the year are as follows.
These cash flows are included within the Group Statement of Cash Flows: restated 2017 2016 m m Cash outflow from operating activities 10.4 14.8 Cash outflow from investing activities 0.5 6.7 Net cash outflow 17.1 15.3 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 139 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 139 12 Dividends paid and proposed 2017 2016 m m Declared and paid during the year Ordinary final dividend for 2016 paid of 8.41p per share 2015: 7.645p 42.9 39.1 Ordinary interim dividend for 2017 of 4.26p per share 2016: 3.87p 21.8 19.8 64.7 58.9 Proposed for approval not recognised as a liability at 31 December Ordinary final dividend for 2017 of 9.25p per share 2016: 8.41p per share 47.3 42.9 13 Earnings per share restated 2017 2016 Basic earnings per share 25.7p 23.0p Normalised basic earnings per share 29.1p 26.3p Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 24.5p 22.0p Diluted earnings per share 25.5p 22.8p Normalised diluted earnings per share 29.0p 26.2p Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 24.4p 21.8p Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to equity shareholders of 131.0m 2016: 117.2m by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trust note 32 which are treated as cancelled.
Basic EPS for continuing operations is calculated by dividing the earnings from the continuing Group attributable to equity shareholders of 125.1m 2016: 112.1m.
Basic and diluted EPS in the year for discontinued operations was 1.2p 2016: 1.0p and 1.1p 2016: 1.0p respectively.
For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The reconciliation of basic and diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares is as follows: 2017 2016 Basic weighted average shares 510,407,865 510,255,410 Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares 2,336,951 2,859,856 Diluted weighted average shares 512,744,816 513,115,266 140 140 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 13 Earnings per share continued The normalised basic and normalised diluted earnings per share have been calculated in addition to the basic and diluted earnings per share required by IAS 33 since, in the opinion of the Directors, they reflect the underlying performance of the business operations more appropriately.
The carrying value by cash-generating unit is as follows: 2017 2016 m m UK 16.7 15.3 North America 518.0 508.1 ALSA 782.9 741.5 1,317.6 1,264.9 142 142 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 14 Intangible assets continued The calculation of value in use for each group of cash-generating units is most sensitive to the assumptions over discount rates and the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan.
The key assumptions used for the cash-generating units are as follows: Growth rate used to Pre-tax discount extrapolate cash flows rate applied to beyond three-year period of cash flow projections management plan 2017 2016 2017 2016 UK 7.5% 8.2% 2.6% 2.6% North America 7.5% 8.1% 2.8% 2.8% ALSA 8.6% 8.2% 2.8% 2.6% The growth rates used to extrapolate cash flow projections are derived from financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three-year period.
The assumptions in these forecasts, which include growth rates and operating margins, are based on historical experience and detailed budget plans as well as managements assessment of current market and economic conditions.
Long term growth rates take into account any known events which would impact cash flows outside of the three year planning period and are set with reference to long term CPI rates and projected GDP growth.
The pre-tax discount rates applied are calculated from country-specific weighted average cost of capital WACC.
In 2016, the discount rate used was a single blended Group WACC.
In 2017, management consulted with independent advisers and updated the approach, now applying country-specific discount rates to better reflect the prevailing economic risk to cash flows of each CGU.
The value in use of the North America division exceeds its carrying amount by 557.3m 2016: 252.2m : the significant increase in value in use being partially driven by the reduction in US corporation tax rate from 35% to 21%.
The value in use of the ALSA division exceeds its carrying amount by 189.7m 2016: 261.8m.
Sensitivities to key and other assumptions The sensitivity analysis below has been presented in the interests of transparency and consistency only.
It is not believed that any reasonably possible movement in key and other assumptions will lead to an impairment.
Sensitivity analysis has been completed on each key assumption in isolation.
This indicates that the value in use of the North America division will be equal to its carrying value with an increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 2.3% 2016: 1.5% or a reduction in the growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan of 2.5% 2016: 1.5%.
In addition, for North America, a reduction in operating profit margin of 2.5% 2016: 1.6% will result in the value in use of the division being equal to its carrying amount.
North Americas operating profit margin for 2017 was 9.3% 2016: 9.6%.
For ALSA, sensitivity analysis on each key assumption indicates that the value in use will be equal to its carrying amount following an increase in the pre-tax discount rate of 0.9% 2016: 1.4% or a reduction in growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year period of the management plan of 0.9% 2016: 1.6%.
A reduction in ALSAs operating profit margin of 1.5% 2016: 2.5% will result in the value in use of the division being equal to its carrying amount.
ALSAs operating profit margin for 2017 was 14.3% 2016: 14.2%.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each cash-generating unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts and therefore that goodwill is not impaired.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 143 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 143 15 Property, plant and equipment Long Plant and leasehold equipment, Freehold land property Public service fixtures and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings Total m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2017 113.3 11.8 1,649.2 212.3 1,986.6 Acquisitions 10.4 0.2 10.6 Additions 1.3 3.3 136.4 26.7 167.7 Disposals 4.5 67.8 5.7 78.0 Reclassifications 30.4 30.4 Foreign exchange 2.8 0.3 60.4 1.4 55.9 At 31 December 2017 112.9 15.4 1,667.8 204.5 2,000.6 Depreciation: At 1 January 2017 29.4 7.8 800.0 165.8 1,003.0 Charge for the year 2.5 0.4 123.0 9.7 135.6 Disposals 1.7 57.7 5.5 64.9 Reclassifications 12.5 12.5 Foreign exchange 0.6 0.7 1.4 31.5 28.8 At 31 December 2017 30.8 8.9 833.8 158.9 1,032.4 Net book value: At 31 December 2017 82.1 6.5 834.0 45.6 968.2 At 1 January 2017 83.9 4.0 849.2 46.5 983.6 144 144 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 15 Property, plant and equipment continued Restated Plant and Long leasehold equipment, Freehold land property Public service fixtures and buildings improvements vehicles and fittings Total restated restated restated restated restated m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2016 101.1 8.1 1,323.0 190.5 1,622.7 Acquisitions 27.1 0.4 27.5 Additions 1.6 2.3 155.0 31.1 190.0 Disposals 0.6 0.2 61.6 3.3 65.7 Reclassifications 0.2 0.2 Foreign exchange 11.0 1.6 205.7 14.0 232.3 Assets reclassified as held for sale 20.2 20.2 At 31 December 2016 113.3 11.8 1,649.2 212.3 1,986.6 Depreciation: At 1 January 2016 25.0 6.0 643.5 147.1 821.6 Charge for the year 2.5 0.8 108.2 11.5 123.0 Disposals 0.3 0.2 53.5 3.2 57.2 Foreign exchange 2.2 1.2 101.8 11.3 116.5 Assets reclassified as held for sale 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2016 29.4 7.8 800.0 165.8 1,003.0 Net book value: At 31 December 2016 83.9 4.0 849.2 46.5 983.6 At 1 January 2016 76.1 2.1 679.5 43.4 801.1 Following a review of property, plant and equipment in the year, it was identified that a number of movements relating to past acquisitions had the effect of misstating brought forward balances and movements in the comparative year.
For both the movements and the opening balances, cost and depreciation were misstated by equal and opposite amounts and therefore the effect on net book values was nil.
The above table has been restated to show revised movements in the comparative year and revised opening and closing balances for both cost and depreciation.
Property, plant and equipment held under finance lease agreements are analysed as follows: 2017 2016 m m Public service vehicles cost 341.5 306.1 depreciation 120.1 135.4 Total net book value 206.1 186.0 Assets held under finance lease agreements are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 145 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 145 16 Subsidiaries The companies listed below include all those which principally affect the results and net assets of the Group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is disclosed in note 39, along with the addresses of their registered offices.
The principal country of operation in respect of the companies below is the country in which they are incorporated.
National Express Group PLC is the beneficial owner of all the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiaries, of the companies.
Incorporated in England and Wales National Express Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services in Great Britain The Kings Ferry Limited Operation of coach services West Midlands Travel Limited Operation of bus services Incorporated in Scotland Tayside Public Transport Co Limited trading as Travel Dundee Operation of bus services Incorporated in the US Durham School Services LP Operation of school bus services Petermann Ltd Operation of school bus services National Express Transit Corporation Operation of transit bus services National Express Transit Services Corporation Operation of transit bus services Incorporated in Canada Stock Transportation Limited Operation of school bus services Incorporated in Spain NEX Continental Holdings SL Holding company for operating companies Tury Express SA Holding company for operating companies General Tecnica Industrial SLU Holding company for operating companies Incorporated in Morocco Groupe Alsa Transport SA Operation of bus services Transport fide Voyageurs en Autocar Maroc SA Operation of bus services Alsa Tanger SA Operation of bus services Alsa City Agadir SA Operation of bus services Incorporated in Germany National Express Rail GmbH Operation of train passenger services The main holding companies of the ALSA Group.
The Group has no material non-controlling interests that require separate disclosure.
146 146 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 17 Derivative financial assets and available-for-sale investments 2017 2016 m m Available-for-sale investments Unlisted ordinary shares 8.1 7.8 Derivative financial instruments Fuel derivatives 2.5 8.6 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate derivatives 10.0 14.3 Derivative financial instruments Cross currency swaps 0.9 8.2 Derivative financial instruments included in non-current assets 13.4 31.1 Derivative financial instruments Fuel derivatives 7.9 3.6 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate derivatives 4.2 8.4 Derivative financial instruments Foreign exchange derivatives 3.3 1.0 Derivative financial instruments included in current assets 15.4 13.0 Further information on the Groups use of derivatives is included in note 31.
Available-for-sale investments 2017 2016 m m Cost or valuation and net book value: At 1 January 7.8 6.5 Additions in the year 0.2 Foreign exchange 0.3 1.1 At 31 December 8.1 7.8 The principal available-for-sale investments are as follows: 2017 2016 Proportion Proportion Country of held held Name registration Class of share % % Metros Ligeros fide Madrid, S. A. MLM Spain Ordinary shares 15 15 Other small investments within ALSA Spain Ordinary shares 1-16 1-16 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 147 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 147 18 Investments accounted for using the equity method Investments accounted for using the equity method are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Joint ventures 8.5 11.8 Associates 2.8 1.9 Total investments accounted for under the equity method 11.3 13.7 The Groups share of post-tax results from associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Ibero-Eurosur S. L. 0.4 3.6 Bahrain Public Transport Company W. L. L. 0.9 1.4 Share of joint ventures loss profit 1.8 2.7 Share of associates loss 0.7 0.8 Total share of results from associates and joint ventures 1.1 3.5 a Investments in joint ventures The Groups interests in joint ventures are as follows: Name Country of registration Activity Proportion held % Ibero-Eurosur S. L. Spain Holding company of Deutsche Touring 20 Bahrain Public Transport Company W. L. L. Kingdom of Bahrain Operation of bus services 50 The financial information of Ibero-Eurosur S. L. and Bahrain Public Transport Company W. L. L. is summarised below: Bahrain Public Transport Ibero-Eurosur S. L. Company W. L. L. 2017 2016 2017 2016 Share of the joint ventures balance sheets and results m m m m 0.2 3.7 16.9 19.8 Non-current assets 5.9 7.4 Current assets 0.2 3.7 22.8 27.2 Share of gross assets 0.2 9.6 Non-current liabilities 0.2 13.4 4.7 5.5 Current liabilities 0.2 14.3 Share of gross liabilities 0.2 18.9 3.5 8.5 8.3 Net assets 0.5 6.4 5.9 Revenue Operating loss profit 3.6 0.4 0.7 0.5 Loss profit after tax 3.6 0.4 0.9 1.4 0.4 0.2 2.8 Loss profit for the year and total comprehensive income 3.6 Dividends received from the joint ventures during the year A reconciliation of the above summarised information to the carrying amount in the consolidated Financial Statements is as follows: Bahrain Public Transport Ibero-Eurosur S. L Company W. L. L. 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m 17.4 17.0 16.6 Net assets of the joint venture 13.9 8.5 8.3 Proportion of interest belonging to joint venture partners 3.5 8.5 8.3 Group share of net assets 148 148 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 18 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued b Investments in associates The Groups interests in associates are as follows: Country of Proportion held Name registration % ALSA associates Spain 20-50 ALSAs associates are generally involved in the operation of coach and bus services, management of bus stations and similar operations.
The aggregate amounts related to associates of which none are individually material are summarised below: 2017 2016 m m Share of operating loss 0.8 0.7 Share of loss for the year and total comprehensive income and expenditure 0.8 0.7 Group share of net assets 2.8 1.9 The carrying amount of the investment in associates matches the Groups share of the net assets.
19 Business combinations a Acquisitions North America During the year, the North America division acquired 100% control of three businesses in the US, none of which are material individually: Cook-DuPage Transport Co. Inc paratransit bus services in Chicago, Illinois Queen City Transportation school bus and charter bus services in Cincinnati, Ohio Monroe School Transportation Inc school bus and paratransit services in Rochester, NY In aggregate, the provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired, along with adjustments to the fair values of prior year acquisitions, were as follows: m Intangible assets 53.7 Property, plant and equipment 5.6 Trade and other receivables 4.7 Cash and cash equivalents 4.2 Trade and other payables 11.4 Provisions 21.6 Deferred tax assets 23.8 Net assets acquired 59.0 Goodwill 51.5 Total consideration 110.5 Represented by: Cash consideration 31.5 Payments for cash acquired in the businesses 4.2 Deferred consideration 74.8 110.5 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 149 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 149 19 Business combinations continued a Acquisitions North America continued Trade and other receivables had a fair value and a gross contractual value of 4.7m.
The best estimate at acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not to be collected was nil.
Goodwill of 51.5m arising from the acquisitions consists of certain intangible benefits that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
This includes control over the acquired businesses and increased scale in our North American operations, along with synergy benefits expected to be achieved.
Included in the consideration shown above is contingent consideration of 38.4m relating to three acquisitions.
For the first acquisition, the Group is required to pay consideration on renewal of contracts on a 5-year or 10-year basis.
For the second acquisition, the Group is required to pay an indemnity contingent on the performance of sellers indemnification obligations or other post-closing obligations under the acquisition agreement.
On the third acquisition, the Group is required to pay consideration on renewal of a significant contract and the contingent consideration is dependent on the renewed revenue level.
The payment under these arrangements is dependent on meeting the respective conditions, with a minimum expected undiscounted payment of nil and maximum expected undiscounted payment of 38.4m.
Based on projections, management expects the maximum amount to be paid.
The amount recognised is undiscounted as the effect of discounting is not material.
The acquired businesses contributed 25.7m of revenue and 6.0m to the Groups profit for the periods between the dates of acquisition and the Balance Sheet date.
Had the acquisitions been completed on the first day of the financial year, the Groups continuing revenue for the year would have been 2,367.6m and the Groups continuing operating profit would have been 205.7m.
b Acquisitions ALSA During the year the ALSA division acquired 100% control of six businesses in Spain and Switzerland, none of which are material individually: Odier Excursions SA tourist charter and other transportation services in Geneva, Switzerland Transportes Santo Domingo S. L. urban bus services in Madrid, Spain Tranvas Metropolitanos fide Granada regional bus services in Granada, Spain Maitours S. L. charter and school bus transportation in Madrid, Spain Chamexpress airport transfers from Geneva to French and Swiss mountain resorts GVA Transfers airport transfers from Geneva to French and Swiss mountain resorts In aggregate, the provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired were as follows: m Intangible assets 5.9 Property, plant and equipment 5.0 Trade and other receivables 2.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1.6 Trade and other payables 4.8 Borrowings and finance leases 4.3 Deferred tax assets 0.8 Net assets acquired 6.9 Goodwill 11.6 Total consideration 18.5 Represented by: Cash consideration 16.7 Payments for cash acquired in the businesses 1.6 Deferred consideration 0.2 18.5 150 150 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 19 Business combinations continued b Acquisitions ALSA continued Trade and other receivables had a fair value and a gross contractual value of 2.7m.
Goodwill of 11.6m arising from the acquisitions consists of certain intangible benefits that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
This includes control over the acquired businesses and increased scale in our operations in Spain and Switzerland, along with synergy benefits expected to be achieved.
There are no contingent amounts within the consideration for the above ALSA acquisitions.
The acquired businesses contributed 6.8m of revenue and 1.5m to the Groups profit for the periods between the dates of acquisition and the Balance Sheet date.
Had the acquisitions been completed on the first day of the financial year, the Groups continuing revenue for the year would have been 2,327.7m and the Groups continuing operating profit would have been 198.7m.
c Acquisitions further information Deferred consideration of 44.5m was paid in the year relating to acquisitions in North America in earlier years.
Total cash outflow in the year from acquisitions in the North America division was therefore 76.0m, comprising consideration for current year acquisitions of 35.7m and deferred consideration of 44.5m, less cash acquired in the businesses of 4.2m.
In addition for North America, during the year there was reduction to the provisional fair values of businesses acquired in the prior year of 9.5m.
Total cash outflow in the year from acquisitions in the ALSA division was 16.7m, comprising consideration of 18.3m, less cash acquired in the businesses of 1.6m.
In December 2016, the UK division acquired E Clarke & Son Coaches Limited.
The fair values of net assets were adjusted in 2017 resulting in additional goodwill of 1.4m.
In addition, 4.5m of deferred consideration relating to the acquisition was settled during 2017. d Disposals On 10 February 2017, the Group disposed of the National Express Essex Thameside c2c franchise to Trenitalia.
Cash in the business on disposal was 14.9m and cash outflows in the year relating to costs of disposal were 14.1m, therefore the net cash inflow in the year from the disposal was 42.8m.
Further details of this disposal are disclosed in note 11.
20 Non-current assets trade and other receivables 2017 2016 m m Prepayments 0.5 1.5 Other receivables 19.6 16.7 20.1 18.2 Other receivables includes amounts relating to insurance claims awaiting settlement, as described further in note 22.
21 Inventories 2017 2016 m m Raw materials and consumables 24.9 25.0 The movement on the provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory is immaterial.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 151 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 151 22 Current assets trade and other receivables 2016 2017 restated m m Trade receivables 202.5 176.9 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 13.5 12.9 Trade receivables net 189.0 164.0 Amounts due from associates and joint ventures note 36 1.6 1.2 Amounts due from other related parties note 36 0.7 0.6 Grants and subsidies receivable 49.8 34.2 Other receivables 63.4 56.7 Prepayments 28.6 27.1 Accrued income 23.2 18.9 356.3 302.7 An analysis of the provision for impairment of receivables is provided below: 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 10.8 12.9 Charged to the Income Statement 0.8 1.3 Utilised in the year 0.6 0.9 Exchange difference 0.4 1.7 At 31 December 12.9 13.5 Amounts included within trade receivables which are past due at the reporting date are shown in note 30.
Certain amounts included within current and non-current other receivables are in relation to insurance claims awaiting settlement.
Additional disclosure regarding these claims may unfairly prejudice the Groups position and consequently this disclosure is not provided.
None of the remaining amounts within other receivables are individually material.
In order to provide greater clarity of receivables, grants and subsidies have been presented separately, with a recategorisation of the prior year comparatives.
Specifically, 4.9m was recategorised from trade receivables and 29.3m from other receivables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
23 Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 100.7 66.0 Overnight deposits 4.9 3.5 Other short-term deposits 208.7 248.6 Cash and cash equivalents 314.3 318.1 Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the agreed short-term floating deposit rate.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value.
152 152 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 24 Current liabilities trade and other payables 2016 2017 restated m m Trade payables 258.5 196.9 Amounts owed to associates and joint ventures note 36 1.0 1.7 Amounts owed to other related parties note 36 1.3 0.8 Other tax and social security payable 27.3 24.8 Accruals and deferred income 197.7 178.1 Other payables 186.6 198.4 672.4 600.7 Trade payables are normally settled on 30-day terms and other payables have an average term of four months.
Included within other payables are deferred fixed asset grants from government or other public bodies of 0.7m 2016: 0.4m, amounts payable for the purchase of property, plant and equipment of 101.7m 2016: 126.4m and factoring of German Rail revenues of 12.5m 2016: 6.3m.
Other payables also includes 54.0m 2016: 54.6m of deferred consideration for businesses acquired, of which 49.2m 2016: 46.7m relates to businesses acquired in the year note 19.
Following a review of payables, management determined that it would improve the presentation to disclose payables relating to payroll-related payments within accruals and deferred income.
Previously these were disclosed within other payables.
A restatement of 40.6m has been made to the respective amounts in the comparative year.
25 Other non-current liabilities 2017 2016 m m Deferred fixed asset grants 2.8 3.3 Other liabilities 33.2 17.9 36.0 21.2 Other liabilities includes 32.5m 2016: 14.7m of deferred consideration for businesses acquired, of which 25.8m 2016: 10.2m relates to businesses acquired in the year note 19.
26 Provisions Claims 1 2 provision Other Total m m m At 1 January 2017 113.6 0.8 114.4 Charged to the Income Statement 36.5 16.6 53.1 Utilised in the year 49.1 0.6 49.7 Unwinding of discount 1.3 1.3 Acquired in business combinations 21.6 21.6 Exchange difference 9.8 9.8 At 31 December 2017 114.1 16.8 130.9 Current 31 December 2017 54.3 11.2 65.5 Non-current 31 December 2017 59.8 5.6 65.4 114.1 16.8 130.9 Current 31 December 2016 56.4 0.8 57.2 Non-current 31 December 2016 57.2 57.2 113.6 0.8 114.4 1 The claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end for auto and general liability, workers compensation and environmental claims, the majority of which will be utilised in the next five years.
It comprises provisions for claims arising in the UK and North America.
2 Other primarily relates to amounts provided for restructuring activities.
The majority will be utilised within one year, with the remainder expected to be utilised within the next five years.
When the effect is material, the provisions are discounted to their net present value.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 153 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 153 27 Deferred tax 2017 2016 m m Net deferred tax liability at 1 January 22.7 34.6 Charge to Income Statement 5.8 17.7 Charge credit to Other Comprehensive Income or Equity 9.4 4.1 Exchange differences 1.3 10.7 Acquired in business combinations 24.6 0.2 Less: amounts reclassified as held for sale 6.9 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 34.6 18.6 Deferred tax movements in Other Comprehensive Income includes a 1.2m credit relating to brought forward assets held for sale and therefore excluded from the above reconciliation.
The total net deferred tax charge to Other Comprehensive Income or Equity is 2.9m.
Based on current capital investment plans, the Group expects to be able to claim capital allowances in excess of depreciation in future years at a similar level to the current year.
2017 2016 Deferred tax assets m m Accelerated tax depreciation 6.0 0.7 Losses carried forward 30.7 27.7 Pensions 15.9 15.3 Other short-term temporary differences 0.8 6.0 Total 41.4 48.3 2017 2016 Deferred tax liabilities m m Accelerated tax depreciation 178.2 213.5 Losses carried forward 43.4 64.4 Intangibles and deductible goodwill 73.6 64.4 Taxation credits 1.6 1.8 Other short-term temporary differences 0.4 Total 60.0 82.9 Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same jurisdiction have been offset.
The UK and German businesses are included in deferred tax assets of 41.4m and the Spanish, US and Canadian businesses are included in deferred tax liabilities of 60.0m.
The deferred tax assets relating to losses carried forward are 74.1m 2016: 92.1m.
This comprises 30.7m 2016: 27.7m within deferred tax assets and 43.4m 2016: 64.4m within deferred tax liabilities.
Deferred tax assets other short-term temporary differences of 0.8m 2016: 6.0m comprises timing differences on share-based payments, fair value of hedging and other smaller items.
154 154 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 28 Borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 2017 2016 m m Non-current Bank loans 8.4 9.2 Bonds 851.9 631.8 Finance lease obligations 124.1 103.5 Other debt payable 73.6 72.2 Non-current borrowings 1,058.0 816.7 Fuel derivatives 1.3 4.2 Non-current derivative financial instruments 1.3 4.2 Non-current borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 1,059.3 820.9 Current Bank loans 107.2 4.1 Bonds 351.4 Finance lease obligations 49.0 56.0 Other debt payable 0.2 Accrued interest on borrowings 11.2 32.1 Current borrowings 167.4 443.8 Fuel derivatives 3.9 21.1 Cross currency swaps 4.1 Foreign exchange derivatives 1.8 4.9 Current derivative financial instruments 9.8 26.0 Current borrowings and derivative financial liabilities 177.2 469.8 An analysis of interest-bearing loans and borrowings is provided in note 29.
Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided in note 31.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 155 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 155 29 Interest-bearing borrowings The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the Balance Sheet date were as follows: 2017 Effective 2016 Effective m Maturity interest rate m Maturity interest rate 7-year Sterling bond 351.4 January 2017 6.54% 10-year Sterling bond 230.4 June 2020 6.85% 232.9 June 2020 6.85% 7-year Sterling bond 400.2 November 2023 2.54% 398.9 November 2023 2.54% 2.5-year Euro floating rate note 221.3 May 2020 EURIBOR 0.40% Bonds 851.9 983.2 European bank loans 2.3 20182020 1.60% 2.0 2017-2020 1.40% European bank loans 2.8 2018 EURIBOR 1.26% 6.2 2017-2019 EURIBOR 1.05% Moroccan bank loans 11.5 20182020 4.75% 3.6 2017-2020 5.04% US bank loans 96.2 April 2018 US Dollar LIBOR 0.75% Other short-term bank loans 2.8 1.5 Bank loans 115.6 13.3 US Dollar finance leases at fixed rate 156.9 various 2.72% 144.3 various 2.25% European finance leases at fixed rate 6.8 20182023 3.02% 7.4 2017-2024 2.80% European finance leases at floating rate 8.5 20182022 EURIBOR 1.61% 4.6 2017-2022 EURIBOR 1.61% Sterling finance leases at fixed rate 0.9 2018 4.08% 3.2 2017-2019 4.08% Finance leases 173.1 159.5 Euro Private Placement 73.6 August 2021 4.55% 71.9 August 2021 4.55% Euro loans 0.5 2017-2026 Other debt payable 73.6 72.4 Accrued interest Bonds 9.5 30.8 Accrued interest Private Placement 1.2 1.3 Accrued interest US bank loans 0.5 Accrued interest on borrowings 11.2 32.1 Total 1,225.4 1,260.5 156 156 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 29 Interest-bearing borrowings continued In 2017, the Group entered into additional unsecured committed revolving credit facilities totalling 32.0m.
The facilities are on the same terms as the Groups existing 512m bank facilities.
All facilities mature in November 2021.
At 31 December 2017, there was nil 2016: nil drawn down on the facilities, with 2.0m of capitalised deal fees remaining.
In November 2016, the Group issued a 400m seven-year Sterling bond with a coupon of 2.5%.
The proceeds were used to repay the 350m Sterling bond that matured in January 2017, with the remainder to be used for general corporate purposes.
In November 2017, the Group issued 250.0m two and a half year floating rate notes at EURIBOR 0.4% and in July 2017 entered into a $130.0m floating term loan at US Dollar LIBOR 0.75%, maturing in April 2018, both used for general corporate purposes.
Under the terms of the 1bn Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme, there is a change in control put option such that, upon a change of control event, any note holder may require the Company to redeem or purchase that MTN.
Details of the Groups interest rate risk management strategy and associated interest rate derivatives are included in notes 30 and 31.
The Group is subject to a number of financial covenants in relation to its syndicated credit facilities which, if contravened, could result in its borrowings under those facilities becoming immediately repayable.
These covenants specify maximum net debt to EBITDA and minimum EBITDA to net interest payable.
The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Groups interest-bearing borrowings and deposits: 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bank loans 102.0 2.0 4.1 1.6 0.2 0.1 110.0 851.9 Bonds 451.7 400.2 Finance leases 45.8 38.2 25.5 17.8 17.6 19.7 164.6 Other debt payable 73.6 73.6 Floating rate Cash assets 314.3 314.3 Other debt receivables 0.7 0.7 Bank loans 5.2 0.4 5.6 3.2 2.6 1.2 0.9 0.5 0.1 Finance leases 8.5 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2016 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bank loans 1.4 3.2 0.8 0.1 0.1 5.6 Bonds 351.4 232.9 398.9 983.2 Finance leases 54.0 35.5 26.7 12.2 10.6 15.9 154.9 Other debt payable 0.2 0.3 71.9 72.4 Floating rate Cash assets 318.1 318.1 Bank loans 2.7 0.4 4.6 7.7 Finance leases 2.0 1.0 0.8 0.3 0.3 0.2 4.6 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 157 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 157 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors and management The Groups multinational operations and debt levels expose it to a variety of financial risks, of which the most material are market risks relating to fuel prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and the availability of funding at reasonable margins.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to manage the impact of these risks on the financial performance of the Group by using financial instruments including borrowings, committed facilities and forward foreign exchange, fuel and interest rate derivatives.
The Board of Directors has delegated the responsibility for implementing the financial risk management policies laid down by the Board to the Group Finance Director and the Group Treasurer.
The policies are implemented by the Group Treasury department with regular reporting to the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee on its activities.
Foreign currency The Group has major foreign operations in the USA, Canada, Spain and Germany and as a result is exposed to the movements in foreign currency exchange rates on the translation of these foreign currency denominated net assets and earnings.
These movements can have a significant impact on the Groups reported results.
The Group seeks to manage this foreign currency exchange movement risk by aligning its foreign currency denominated liabilities with the EBIT generated in each currency, such that some protection is afforded to the net debt: EBITDA covenant within the Groups core borrowing facility.
This is achieved by a combination of foreign currency borrowings and finance leases, and entering into derivative financial instruments such as cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange swaps.
At the year end, the Group had outstanding foreign exchange derivatives for net investment purposes of 176.3m, USD158.3m and CAD92.0m, outstanding cross currency interest rate swaps of 222.7m and 114.6m and finance leases of USD212.0m and 17.3m.
Foreign exchange and cross currency interest rate swaps are derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges of foreign currency assets.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and recycled to the Income Statement at the same time as the underlying hedged net assets affect the Income Statement.
Any material ineffectiveness is taken to the Income Statement.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
This would affect the Groups profit before tax and translation reserve.
The effect on the translation reserve represents the movement in the translated value of the foreign currency denominated loans and change in fair value of cross currency swap contracts.
These movements would be offset by an opposite movement in the translated value of the Groups overseas net investments.
It is estimated that a 10% change in the corresponding exchange rates would result in an exchange gain or loss in the translation reserve of 67.1m.
2017 2016 Effect Effect on Effect Effect on Strengthening on profit translation on profit translation weakening before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December in currency m m m m US Dollar 10% 23.0 27.6 39.2 Euro 10% 13.5 Canadian Dollar 10% 4.9 4.7 US Dollar 10 % 23.0 27.6 Euro 10 % 39.2 13.5 Canadian Dollar 10 % 4.9 4.7 158 158 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on both interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
It is the Groups policy to maintain an appropriate balance between fixed and floating interest rates on borrowings in order to provide a level of certainty to interest expense in the short term and to reduce the year-on-year impact of interest rate fluctuations over the medium term.
To achieve the desired fixed floating ratio, the Group has entered into a series of interest rate swaps that have the effect of converting fixed rate debt to floating rate debt.
The net effect of these transactions was that as at 31 December 2017 the proportion of the Groups gross debt at floating rates was 43% 2016: 24%.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The sensitivity analysis covers all floating rate financial instruments, including the interest rate swaps.
If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments were increased by 100bps it is estimated that the Groups profit before taxation would increase by approximately 1.6m relating to Sterling, 0.2m relating to the US Dollar and decrease 2.8m relating to the Euro.
The analysis assumes that the amount and mix of floating rate debt, including finance leases, remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2017.
2017 2016 Increase Effect Effect on Effect Effect on decrease on profit hedging on profit hedging in basis before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December points m m m m Sterling 100 1.6 0.7 US Dollar 100 0.2 0.3 Euro 100 2.8 0.6 Sterling 100 0.7 1.6 US Dollar 100 0.2 0.3 Euro 100 2.8 0.6 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 159 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 159 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Commodity prices The Group is exposed to movements in commodity prices as a result of its fuel usage.
It is the Groups policy to hedge this exposure in order to provide a level of certainty as to its cost in the short term and to reduce the year-on-year impact of price fluctuations over the medium term.
This is achieved by entering into fuel derivatives.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had hedged approximately 95% of its 2018 expected usage, 71% of its expected usage in 2019 and 35% of its expected usage in 2020 see the Group Finance Directors review for further details.
The table below demonstrates the effect of a reasonably possible variation in fuel prices, with all other variables held constant, on the fair value of the Groups financial instruments and accordingly on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The sensitivity analysis includes all fuel derivatives.
The effect on the hedging reserve arises through movements on the fair value of the Groups fuel derivatives.
For these derivative contracts the sensitivity of the net fair value to an immediate 10% increase or decrease in all prices would have been 15.5m at 31 December 2017.
The figure does not include any corresponding economic advantage or disadvantage that would arise from the natural business exposure which would be expected to offset the gain or loss on the derivatives.
2017 2016 Effect Effect on Effect Effect on Increase on profit hedging on profit hedging decrease before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December in price m m m m Sterling denominated ULSD 10% 6.0 7.7 US Dollar denominated heating oil diesel 10% 3.2 3.9 US Dollar denominated gasoline 10% 1.0 1.5 Euro denominated ULSD 10% 5.3 7.4 Sterling denominated ULSD 10 % 6.0 7.7 US Dollar denominated heating oil diesel 10 % 3.9 3.2 US Dollar denominated gasoline 10 % 1.0 1.5 Euro denominated ULSD 10 % 7.4 5.3 Credit risk The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group is the gross carrying value of each of its financial assets.
This risk is mitigated by a number of factors.
Many of the Groups principal customers, suppliers and financial institutions with which it conducts business are local public or quasi-public bodies, including school boards in North America, municipal authorities in Spain and Morocco, Transport for London and the West Midlands Combined Authority in the UK, and regional authorities in Germany.
The Group does not consider these counterparties to pose a significant credit risk.
Outside of this, the Group does not consider it has significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The only elements of the Groups financial assets which are not impaired but are past due are certain trade receivable items.
An ageing of the assets which are past due is included in the following table.
In terms of trade receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no confirmed indications as at the year end reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations see Risk and risk management section for details of how management manages this process.
Of which: not impaired and past due in the following periods Of which: neither Between Between Carrying impaired Less than 30 and 60 61 and 90 amount nor past due 30 days days days Over 90 days m m m m m m Trade receivables at 31 December 2017 189.0 113.9 33.1 10.2 6.0 25.8 Trade receivables at 31 December 2016 restated 164.0 108.9 23.7 7.8 5.2 18.4 Trade receivables more than 90 days primarily relate to amounts receivable from public authorities in ALSA and receivables for school bus services in North America where amounts are settled on approval from the local governing bodies at the end of the school period.
The Directors believe that based on the ongoing contractual relationships with predominantly public bodies these amounts will be collected.
160 160 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk The Groups liquidity risk is centrally managed by the Group Treasury department with operating units forecasting their cash requirements.
The Group actively maintains a mixture of medium and long-term committed facilities designed to ensure the Group has sufficient available funds to meet current and forecast funding requirements.
In managing liquidity risk, the Group has access to a range of funding sources through the banking and capital markets.
In November 2017, the Group issued 250.0m two and a half year floating rate notes at EURIBOR 0.4% and in July 2017 entered into a $130.0m floating term loan at US dollar LIBOR 0.75%, maturing in April 2018, both used for general corporate purposes.
In December 2017, the Group entered into an additional unsecured committed revolving credit facility of 32m.
This facility is on the same terms as the Groups existing 512m unsecured committed revolving credit facilities and mature in November 2021.
At 31 December 2017, there was nil 2016: nil drawn down on the facilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2017 based on the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest cash flows.
As such, the amounts in this table will not agree to the carrying amounts disclosed in the Balance Sheet or other notes.
The table includes cash flows associated with derivative hedging instruments.
Their amounts reflect the maturity profile of the fair value liability where the instrument will be settled net, and the gross settlement amount where the pay leg of a derivative will be settled separately to the receive leg.
On demand 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m Bank loans 107.3 8.3 115.6 Bonds 25.1 517.2 410.0 952.3 Finance lease obligations 53.5 112.5 20.5 186.5 Other debt payable 3.2 79.3 82.5 Trade and other payables 671.7 33.2 704.9 860.8 750.5 430.5 2,041.8 Foreign exchange derivatives 1.5 1.5 Interest rate derivatives 4.0 10.2 14.2 2.7 Cross currency interest rate swaps 8.0 4.1 9.4 Fuel derivatives 3.8 1.5 5.3 6.6 19.7 4.1 30.4 On demand 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2016 m m m m m Bank loans 4.3 9.2 0.1 13.6 Bonds 396.8 309.7 420.0 1,126.5 Finance lease obligations 59.2 91.7 17.2 168.1 Other debt payable 3.5 79.4 0.1 83.0 Trade and other payables 600.7 17.9 618.6 1,064.5 507.9 437.4 2,009.8 Foreign exchange derivatives 3.9 3.9 Interest rate derivatives 8.4 14.2 22.6 Cross currency interest rate swaps 2.1 8.4 4.2 14.7 18.2 Fuel derivatives 5.9 12.3 11.6 28.5 4.2 21.1 Capital risk management The Group seeks to adopt efficient financing structures that enable it to use its Balance Sheet strength to achieve the Groups objectives without putting shareholder value at risk.
The Groups capital structure comprises its equity refer to the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and its net debt refer to note 37.
The increase in the Groups net debt from 878.0m to 887.9m excluding accrued interest is explained in the Group Finance Directors Review.
Information about the financial covenants in relation to the Groups borrowing facilities is included in note 29.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 161 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 161 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables Fair values The table overleaf illustrates the fair values of all financial assets and liabilities held by the Group at 31 December 2017.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method and the carrying value in all cases approximates to the fair value.
Available-for-sale investments are non-derivative assets that are either designated as available for sale, or are not classified as loans and receivables or held to maturity investments.
The Groups available-for-sale investments have no active market, and in the absence of any other reliable external information are carried at cost or amortised cost which approximates to the fair value.
The Groups derivatives are measured at fair value.
The fair value of these instruments is either determined by the third-party financial institution with which the Group holds the instrument, in line with the market value of similar financial instruments, or by use of valuation techniques using market data.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are classified as fair value through profit or loss and are carried on the Balance Sheet at their fair value with gains or losses recognised in the Income Statement.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge are carried on the Balance Sheet at their fair value.
For cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in Other Comprehensive Income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the Income Statement.
Amounts taken to Other Comprehensive Income are transferred to the Income Statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss or when the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed.
For fair value hedges, all gains or losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
The fair value measurement of derivative instruments is categorised within Level 2 ie the fair values are derived based on observable market inputs.
The Group has no financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs, ie those that would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, other than the deferred contingent consideration disclosed in note 19.
There have not been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy and there are no non-recurring fair value movements.
The Groups bonds are held at a hybrid amortised cost with a fair value adjustment.
After initial recognition at fair value, the bonds are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
A portion of the bonds is designated as the hedged item in an effective fair value hedging relationship.
As such, the carrying value of this portion is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
This net carrying value will differ to the fair value depending on movements in the Groups credit risk, movements in interest rates on the un-hedged portion and unamortised fees.
All other liabilities, including finance leases, bank loans, trade and other payables and other debt payable, are held at amortised cost.
After initial fair value recognition, these instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying value of these liabilities approximates to the fair value.
162 162 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Fair values continued Liabilities AvailableDerivatives measured at At fair value Loans and for-sale used for amortised through Classification of financial instruments receivables assets hedging cost profit or loss Total As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Assets Investments 8.1 8.1 Fuel derivatives 10.4 10.4 Interest rate derivatives 14.2 14.2 Cross currency swaps 0.9 0.9 Foreign exchange derivatives 3.3 3.3 Cash and cash equivalents 314.3 314.3 Trade and other receivables 324.1 324.1 638.4 8.1 28.8 675.3 Liabilities Bank loans 116.1 116.1 Bonds including accrued interest 861.4 861.4 Finance lease obligations 173.1 173.1 Other debt payable 74.8 74.8 Fuel derivatives 5.2 5.2 Cross currency swaps 4.1 4.1 Foreign exchange derivatives 1.8 1.8 Trade and other payables 704.9 704.9 11.1 1,930.3 1,941.4 AvailableDerivatives Liabilities At fair value Loans and for-sale used for measured at through Classification of financial instruments receivables assets hedging amortised cost profit or loss Total As at 31 December 2016 m m m m m m Assets Investments 7.8 7.8 Fuel derivatives 12.2 12.2 Interest rate derivatives 22.7 22.7 Cross currency swaps 8.2 8.2 Foreign exchange derivatives 1.0 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents 318.1 318.1 Trade and other receivables 273.4 273.4 591.5 7.8 44.1 643.4 Liabilities Bank loans 13.3 13.3 Bonds including accrued interest 1,014.0 1,014.0 Finance lease obligations 159.5 159.5 Other debt payable 73.7 73.7 Fuel derivatives 25.3 25.3 Foreign exchange derivatives 4.9 4.9 Trade and other payables 618.2 618.2 30.2 1,878.7 1,908.9 Other receivables and other payables are to be settled in cash in the currency they are held in.
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for.
No embedded derivatives have been identified.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 163 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 163 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Fair values continued The Group assesses at each year end reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
In the financial year 2017, there was no objective evidence that would have necessitated the impairment of loans and receivables or available-for-sale assets except the provision for impairment of receivables see note 22.
Hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage exposures to market risk, such as movements in foreign exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
In line with IAS 39 the Group classifies hedges as a fair value hedges used to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, b cash flow hedges used to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, and c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
In 2017, the Group applied cash flow hedge accounting to hedge floating fuel price risks in highly probable forecast purchase transactions and for hedging net investments in its US Dollar and Euro foreign operations.
The Group also applied fair value hedge accounting on 100m of the Groups fixed rate bonds and 78.5m Private Placement to hedge changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations.
The movement on derivative financial instruments is detailed below: Foreign Cross exchange Fuel Interest rate currency forward swaps swaps swaps contracts Total m m m m m 13.1 3.9 Net asset liability at 1 January 2017 22.7 8.2 13.9 Transfers to the Income Statement on cash flow hedges 23.6 23.6 5.7 5.7 Cash settlements Revaluation through Income Statement 9.6 9.6 5.3 5.3 Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income Transfers 1.1 1.1 Exchange differences 11.4 11.1 0.3 Net asset liability at 31 December 2017 5.2 14.2 3.2 1.5 17.7 Foreign Cross exchange Fuel Interest rate currency forward swaps swaps swaps contracts Total m m m m m Net asset liability at 1 January 2016 83.8 22.2 0.6 61.0 Transfers to the Income Statement on cash flow hedges 43.7 43.7 Cash settlements 46.3 46.3 Revaluation through Income Statement 0.5 0.5 Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income 27.0 27.0 Exchange differences 8.2 50.8 42.6 Net asset liability at 31 December 2016 13.1 22.7 8.2 3.9 13.9 The movement on the hedging reserve is detailed below: 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 2.8 67.5 Transferred to Income Statement 23.6 43.7 Revaluation through Other Comprehensive Income 5.3 27.0 13.2 Exchange differences 11.8 3.4 Tax on revaluation 12.2 At 31 December 4.5 2.8 164 164 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Hedge of net investments in foreign entities The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments to hedge the net investment in material foreign currency net assets of the Group which are used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange rate movements.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had designated 176.3m of synthetic debt in the form of foreign exchange derivatives, 222.7m in cross currency interest rate swaps, a 250.0m FRN, a 114.6m term loan and a 78.5m Private Placement as net investment hedges of the net assets of its Euro subsidiaries.
Similarly, USD158.5m and CAD92.0m of synthetic debt in the form of foreign exchange derivatives were designated as a hedge of the net assets of the Groups North America subsidiaries.
No ineffectiveness was recognised in relation to these hedges.
Fuel derivatives The Group has a number of fuel derivatives in place to hedge the different types of fuel used in each division.
Fuel swaps are used to match the timing, type of fuel and currency in which the domestic physical fuel is purchased as closely as possible, with hedges currently in place from 2018 through to 2020.
During the year 5.3m of fair value losses 2016: 27.0m gains have been transferred to the hedging reserve due to movements in market fuel prices.
A fair value loss of 23.6m 2016: 43.7m loss has been transferred from the hedging reserve to the Income Statement following settlement of fuel trades, of which 2.8m was recognised in the hedging reserve at 1 January 2017 and the remainder was generated during the year due to the movement in market fuel prices.
Due to immateriality, nil was recognised in the Income Statement in relation to hedge ineffectiveness 2016: nil.
Fuel derivatives can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 Fair value Fair value Volume Volume m m million litres million litres Hedge fuel derivatives Sterling denominated UK 0.7 2.2 74.6 80.8 Euro denominated ALSA 0.8 7.7 76.0 82.3 US Dollar denominated North America 2.5 7.6 52.4 53.2 Fuel derivatives included in current assets liabilities 4.0 17.5 203.0 216.3 Sterling denominated UK 0.1 0.8 97.2 117.7 0.5 Euro denominated ALSA 2.2 77.1 123.6 US Dollar denominated North America 1.8 1.4 63.1 90.2 Fuel derivatives included in non-current assets liabilities 1.2 4.4 237.4 331.5 Total hedge fuel derivatives 5.2 13.1 440.4 547.8 Interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss In July 2010, the Group entered into two 50m interest rate swaps that pay floating interest LIBOR margin semi-annually and receive fixed interest annually.
These are designated as fair value hedges of interest rate risk with maturities matching the Groups 225m Sterling bonds maturing in June 2020.
These swaps are measured at fair value through profit or loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the Income Statement to offset any fair value gains or losses due to changes in the risk-free interest rate on the swapped portion of the bonds.
As at 31 December 2017, a total fair value loss of 4.1m was recognised in the Income Statement in relation to these swaps.
This is offset by a fair value gain of 4.1m on the underlying hedged item, in this case changes in fair value on 100m of the Groups 225m bonds due to changes in the risk-free interest rate.
In September 2012, the Group entered into two 39.25m denominated interest rate swaps equal in value to the Euro Private Placement.
These interest rate swaps all pay floating interest EURIBOR margin semi-annually, receive fixed interest annually with maturities matching the Euro Private Placement and are designated as a fair value hedge of the interest rate risk on the Private Placement.
These swaps are measured at fair value through profit and loss, with any gains or losses being taken immediately to the Income Statement to offset any fair value gains or losses due to changes in the risk-free rate on the Euro Private Placement.
As at 31 December 2017, a total fair value gain of 1.1m was recognised in the Income Statement in relation to these swaps.
This is offset by a fair value loss of 1.1m on the underlying hedged item, in this case changes in fair value of the Euro Private Placement due to changes in the risk-free interest rate.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 165 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 165 32 Called-up share capital 2017 2016 m m At 31 December: Authorised: 800,000,000 2016: 800,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 40.0 40.0 Issued called-up and fully paid: 511,738,648 2016: 511,738,648 ordinary shares of 5p each 25.6 25.6 The total number of share options exercised in the year by employees of the Group was 2,773,080 2016: 2,422,638 of which 2,316,546 2016: 1,981,675 exercises were satisfied by transferring shares from the National Express Employee Benefit Trust.
The remaining exercises were settled via a direct purchase of shares from the open market.
Own shares Own shares comprises 1,643,746 2016: 2,260,292 ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the trustees of the National Express Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
During the year, the Trust purchased 1,700,000 2016: 1,746,500 shares and 2,316,546 2016: 1,981,675 shares were used to satisfy options granted under a number of the Companys share schemes.
No shares 2016: nil were sold during the year to the open market.
The market value of the shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2017 was 6.3m 2016: 8.0m.
The dividends payable on 1,520,405 of these shares have been waived 2016: 2,090,464.
33 Other reserves Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2017 15.4 2.8 175.9 194.1 Hedge movements, net of tax 1.7 1.7 Exchange differences, net of tax 14.2 14.2 At 31 December 2017 15.4 4.5 161.7 181.6 Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2016 15.4 67.5 28.0 80.1 Hedge movements, net of tax 70.3 70.3 Exchange differences, net of tax 203.9 203.9 At 31 December 2016 15.4 2.8 175.9 194.1 The nature and purpose of the other reserves are as follows: The merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Prism Rail PLC in 2000.
The hedging reserve records the movements on designated hedging items, offset by any movements recognised in equity on underlying hedged items.
The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries offset by the movements on loans and derivatives used to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
166 166 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions The UK division UK and National Express Group PLC the Company operate both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
Subsidiaries in North America contribute to a number of defined contribution plans.
The Group also provides certain additional unfunded post-employment benefits to employees in North America and ALSA, and maintains a small defined benefit scheme for National Express Services Limited, previously part of the UK Rail division.
The principal UK Rail defined benefit scheme was transferred to Trenitalia as part of the disposal of NXET Trains Limited on 10 February 2017 note 11.
Post-employment benefits for North America, ALSA and UK rail have been combined into the Other category.
With effect from 30 June 2017, the assets and liabilities of the Tayside Transport Fund a defined benefit pension scheme for certain past and present employees of Tayside Public Transport Company Limited, a subsidiary of the UK Bus division were transferred into the Tayside Pension Fund a fund administered by Dundee City Council.
The Group will continue to make contributions into the Tayside Pension Fund in respect of current service costs on the basis of a fixed percentage of pensionable pay and will account for this on a defined contribution basis.
Prior to transfer, the Tayside Transport Fund was in a net surplus position and had been derecognised in full.
The assets of the defined benefit schemes are held separately from those of the Group and contributions to the schemes are determined by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
In 2017, the UK division agreed a three-year annual deficit repayment plan with the trustees of the West Midlands Integrated Transport Authority Pension Fund, which continues until March 2020 with an average contribution of 7.7m per annum.
The plan remains open to accrual for existing members only.
The Group expects to contribute approximately 10.0m to its defined benefit pension plans in 2018.
The total pension cost charged to operating profit in the year for the continuing Group was 8.7m 2016: 7.4m, of which 3.9m 2016: 3.7m relates to the defined contribution schemes.
The defined benefit pension liability asset included in the Balance Sheet is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Company 43.2 44.5 Pension assets 43.2 44.5 UK 128.5 133.8 Other 4.2 3.9 Pension liabilities 132.7 137.7 Total 88.2 94.5 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 167 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 167 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued Key risks relating to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are as follows: Investment risk The present values of scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if the return on scheme assets is below this yield, it will create a deficit.
The UK scheme holds a significant proportion of return-seeking assets equities and diversified growth funds which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, create volatility and risk in the short term.
The Company scheme, which holds a net surplus position and is closed to future accrual, primarily holds bonds.
Interest risk A decrease in bond interest rates will increase scheme liabilities but this will be partially offset by an increase in the returns on the scheme assets.
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the schemes obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
The Group has some inflation linking in its revenue streams, which helps to offset this risk.
In addition, the UK scheme holds a small proportion of index-linked bonds which will help to protect against this risk and the Company scheme holds a liability driven investment portfolio which seeks to hedge against inflation.
Longevity risk The majority of the schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
The Company scheme is closed to future accrual, thereby reducing exposure to increases in longevity risk.
The UK scheme includes a buy-in policy covering part of the pensioner members liabilities, which partly helps to mitigate longevity risk.
Legislative risk Future legislative changes are uncertain.
In the past these have led to both increases in obligations: for example, reduced investment return through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation Tax, and decreases in obligations: for example, through the ability to use CPI inflation instead of RPI to set pension increase rates.
The Company scheme is closed to future accrual, thereby reducing exposure to legislative change.
For the UK scheme the Group receives professional advice on the impact of legislative changes.
The valuations conducted for financial reporting purposes are based on the triennial actuarial valuations.
A summary of the latest triennial actuarial valuations for the principal schemes, and assumptions made, is as follows: UK Company 31 March 5 April Date of actuarial valuation 2016 2016 Rate of investment returns per annum 4.5% 0%-2.1% Increase in earnings per annum 2.3% % Scheme assets taken at market value 449.1m 114.8m Funding level 81% 97% The most recent triennial valuations are then updated by independent professionally qualified actuaries for financial reporting purposes, in accordance with IAS 19.
The main actuarial assumptions underlying the IAS 19 valuations are: 2017 2016 UK Company UK Company Rate of increase in salaries 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% Rate of increase of pensions in payment 2.2% 3.2% 2.4% 3.3% Discount rate 2.5% 2.5% 2.7% 2.7% Inflation assumption RPI 3.2% 3.2% 3.4% 3.4% Inflation assumption CPI 2.2% 2.2% 2.4% 2.4% Post-retirement mortality in years: Current pensioners at 65 male 21.5 23.1 21.4 23.0 Future pensioners at 65 male 23.2 24.8 22.8 24.9 Current pensioners at 65 female 23.5 25.9 24.2 25.8 Future pensioners at 65 female 25.4 27.8 25.7 27.5 The demographic assumptions reflect those adopted in the most recent triennial actuarial valuation.
168 168 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued The Directors regard the assumptions around pensions in payment, discount rate, inflation and mortality to be the key assumptions in the IAS 19 valuation.
The following table provides an approximate sensitivity analysis of a reasonably possible change to these assumptions: UK Company Increase decrease in the defined benefit obligation m m Effect of a 0.1% increase in pensions in payment 7.6 0.9 Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate 9.8 2.0 Effect of a 0.1% increase in inflation 8.4 1.6 Effect of a 0.1 year increase in mortality rates 2.2 0.3 Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective Balance Sheet dates.
The expected rate of return on scheme assets is determined based on market returns on each category of scheme assets.
b Financial results for pension benefits For the continuing Group, the amounts charged to the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 are set out in the following tables: UK Company Other Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 Group Income Statement m m m m Amounts charged credited: Current service cost 4.3 4.3 0.2 Net interest expense income 3.1 1.2 2.1 Total continuing charge credit to Income Statement 1.2 0.2 7.4 6.4 In addition, during the year 0.5m 2016: 0.2m of administrative expenses were incurred in the continuing Group.
The net interest expense has been included within Finance Costs see note 9.
UK Company Total Other 2017 2017 2017 2017 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income m m m m Actuarial loss during the period from obligations 22.7 1.9 5.7 30.3 Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 20.2 0.2 20.0 0.4 Net actuarial loss prior to transfers 2.5 2.3 5.5 10.3 Transfers out Tayside Transport Fund 3.7 3.7 Net actuarial loss 6.2 2.3 5.5 14.0 includes 6.0m actuarial loss in the NXET Trains Limited Section of the RPS prior to disposal.
UK Company Other Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 Group Income Statement continuing Group m m m m Amounts charged credited: Current service cost 3.2 0.3 3.5 Net interest expense income 2.2 1.3 0.1 1.0 Total continuing charge credit to Income Statement 5.4 1.3 0.4 4.5 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 169 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 169 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued b Financial results for pension benefits continued UK Company Other Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income m m m m Actuarial loss gain during the period from obligations 132.4 19.8 10.0 142.2 Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 57.8 28.1 7.7 93.6 Change in asset ceiling 3.0 3.0 Net actuarial losses gains 71.6 8.3 17.7 45.6 The amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet at 31 December are: UK Company Other Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 As at 31 December 2017 m m m m Equities 101.6 1.8 103.4 Bonds 52.5 185.3 0.8 238.6 Insurance policy 237.7 237.7 Diversified growth fund 93.8 93.8 Other 0.6 0.2 51.3 50.5 Fair value of scheme assets 486.2 134.0 2.8 623.0 Present value of liabilities and defined benefit obligation 620.0 90.8 6.7 717.5 Defined benefit pension deficit surplus 133.8 43.2 3.9 94.5 UK Company Other Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 As at 31 December 2016 m m m m Equities 131.8 1.8 133.6 Bonds 76.5 153.1 0.7 230.3 Property 4.9 4.9 Insurance policy 243.9 243.9 Diversified growth fund 81.1 81.1 Other 4.2 18.9 0.1 14.6 Fair value of scheme assets 542.4 134.2 2.6 679.2 Present value of liabilities and defined benefit obligation 658.1 89.7 6.8 754.6 Asset ceiling 12.8 12.8 Defined benefit pension deficit surplus 128.5 44.5 4.2 88.2 The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation in the year is as stated below.
The Groups defined benefit obligation comprises 714.7m 2016: 751.9m arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded and 2.8m 2016: 2.7m from unfunded plans.
Based on the terms and conditions of the Company scheme, and from consultation with independent advisers, the Group determined that an ultimate future economic benefit exists in the form of a refund or a reduction in future contributions.
Therefore, in accordance with IFRIC 14, the closing defined benefit surplus of this scheme has been recognised.
170 170 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued b Financial results for pension benefits continued The movement in the defined benefit obligations is as follows: UK Company Other Total m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2017 658.1 89.7 6.8 754.6 Current service cost 4.3 4.3 Benefits paid 27.8 3.1 0.1 31.0 Contributions by employees 0.8 0.8 Finance charge 0.3 16.4 2.3 19.0 Actuarial loss gain from changes in financial assumptions 6.9 1.9 0.2 8.6 Actuarial loss arising from changes in demographics 11.5 0.1 11.4 Actuarial loss arising from experience adjustments 4.3 4.3 Transfers out Tayside Transport Fund 54.5 54.5 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2017 620.0 90.8 6.7 717.5 UK Company Other Total m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2016 529.4 70.2 90.4 690.0 Current service cost 3.2 3.2 6.4 Past service credit 4.9 4.9 Benefits paid 27.8 2.9 2.8 33.5 Contributions by employees 1.0 1.5 2.5 Finance charge 19.9 2.6 2.9 25.4 Interest on franchise adjustment 1.4 1.4 Members share of movement on liabilities 20.9 20.9 Actuarial loss gain from changes in financial assumptions 133.7 23.8 20.4 137.1 Actuarial gain arising from changes in demographics 4.3 4.3 Actuarial gain loss arising from experience adjustments 1.3 0.3 10.4 9.4 Movements arising from foreign exchange 0.5 0.5 Transferred to liabilities associated with assets held for sale 93.5 93.5 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2016 658.1 89.7 6.8 754.6 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 171 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 171 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued b Financial results for pension benefits continued The movement in the fair value of scheme assets is as follows: UK Company Other Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2017 542.4 134.2 2.6 679.2 Expected return on plan assets 13.3 3.5 0.1 16.9 Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 20.2 0.2 20.0 0.4 Cash contributions employer 8.2 0.1 8.3 Administrative expenses 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.2 Cash contributions employee 0.8 0.8 Benefits paid 27.8 3.1 0.1 31.0 Transfers out Tayside Transport Fund 70.7 70.7 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2017 486.2 134.0 2.8 623.0 UK Company Other Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2016 484.2 105.1 89.7 679.0 Expected return on plan assets 18.3 3.9 2.1 24.3 Expected return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 57.8 28.1 7.7 93.6 Cash contributions employer 9.1 2.3 11.4 Administrative expenses 0.2 1.1 1.3 Cash contributions employee 1.0 1.5 2.5 Benefits paid 27.8 2.9 2.8 33.5 Members share of return on assets 5.8 5.8 Transferred to assets held for sale 102.6 102.6 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2016 542.4 134.2 2.6 679.2 172 172 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued b Financial results for pension benefits continued 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 History of experience gains and losses: m m m m m UK Fair value of scheme assets 486.2 542.4 484.2 493.4 456.4 Present value of defined benefit obligation 658.1 529.4 544.0 497.2 620.0 Asset ceiling 12.8 15.2 Deficit in the scheme 128.5 60.4 50.6 40.8 133.8 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 4.3 1.3 3.2 4.5 2.9 Experience adjustments arising on assets 20.2 57.8 7.9 32.7 1.4 Company Fair value of scheme assets 134.0 134.2 105.1 101.8 74.6 Present value of defined benefit obligation 89.7 70.2 71.2 62.0 90.8 Surplus in the scheme 43.2 44.5 34.9 30.6 12.6 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 0.3 3.8 Experience adjustments arising on assets 0.4 28.1 2.2 22.6 2.8 Other Fair value of scheme assets 2.8 2.6 89.7 84.4 75.0 Present value of defined benefit obligation 6.8 90.4 89.6 87.3 6.7 Members share of deficit 13.6 13.3 10.4 Deficit surplus in the scheme 4.2 12.9 8.1 1.9 3.9 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 0.1 4.2 3.5 0.1 Experience adjustments arising on assets 0.2 0.3 1.1 3.1 2.0 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income since 1 January 2004 is a 128.2m loss 2016: 114.2m loss.
The Directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRSs and taken directly to equity of 51.9m is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes.
Consequently the Directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income before 1 January 2004.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 173 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 173 35 Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments The Groups total operating lease commitments are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year: Land and buildings 24.0 25.3 Plant and equipment 31.2 59.2 55.2 84.5 After one year but not more than five years: Land and buildings 49.0 65.9 Plant and equipment 156.2 224.5 205.2 290.4 More than five years: Land and buildings 40.7 81.8 Plant and equipment 302.8 484.0 343.5 565.8 603.9 940.7 Non-rail lease commitments Excluding rail, which is analysed separately below, the Group has entered into operating leases on certain properties, public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment as follows.
The figures represent future minimum rental payments for these commitments: Land and buildings Public service vehicles Other 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Within one year 23.8 18.9 16.1 16.4 1.9 2.2 After one year but not more than five years 48.3 40.3 24.9 31.1 1.2 2.7 More than five years 40.7 31.0 1.9 2.6 112.8 90.2 42.9 50.1 3.1 4.9 The average remaining life of operating lease commitments is 4.7 years 2016: 4.8 years for land and buildings, 2.8 years 2016: 3.2 years for public service vehicles and 1.7 years 2016: 2.3 years for other plant and equipment.
Rail lease commitments Commitments for future minimum rental payments under rail contracts are shown below: Land and buildings Plant and equipment 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year: Fixed track access 4.7 Rolling stock 13.1 40.6 Other 0.2 1.7 0.1 0.2 6.4 13.2 40.6 After one year but not more than five years: Fixed track access 18.7 Rolling stock 129.9 190.6 Other 0.7 6.9 0.2 0.1 0.7 25.6 130.1 190.7 Over five years: Fixed track access 37.5 Rolling stock 300.9 481.2 Other 13.3 0.2 50.8 300.9 481.4 0.9 82.8 444.2 712.7 Land and buildings have an average duration of 4.4 years 2016: 12.6 years.
Rolling stock agreements have an average life of 14.8 years 2016: 11.3 years and other plant and equipment 3.2 years 2016: 12.8 years.
Included in the above commitments for 2016 is 369.9m relating to the National Express Essex Thameside franchise that was disposed of in February 2017 see note 11.
This comprised 82.4m of land and buildings commitments, and 287.5m of plant and equipment commitments.
174 174 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 35 Commitments and contingencies continued Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
These leases have terms of renewal but no purchase options and escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
2017 2016 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments m m m m Within one year 53.5 49.0 59.5 55.9 After one year but not more than five years 112.5 104.3 93.1 87.6 More than five years 20.5 19.8 16.4 16.0 Total minimum lease payments 186.5 173.1 169.0 159.5 Less future financing charges 13.4 9.5 Present value of minimum lease payments 173.1 173.1 159.5 159.5 Capital commitments 2017 2016 m m Contracted 32.7 55.0 The Group is committed to vehicle purchases and various land and buildings improvements.
Contingent liabilities Guarantees The Group has guaranteed credit facilities totalling 24.7m 2016: 36.1m of certain joint ventures.
Bonds and letters of credit In the ordinary course of business, the Group is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its operations.
As at 31 December 2017, there were Rail performance bonds of 6.3m 2016: 64.1m and Rail season ticket bonds of nil 2016: 22.5m.
The Group has other performance bonds which include performance bonds in respect of businesses in the US of 148.3m 2016: 159.5m and in Spain of 41.9m 2016: 41.4m.
There are also bonds of 5.9m relating to operations in the Middle East 2016: 6.5m.
Letters of credit have been issued to support insurance retentions of 91.9m 2016: 91.5m.
Tax Tax authorities in the markets in which we operate UK, Spain, Germany, USA, Canada and Morocco carry out tax audits from time to time.
As was detailed in note 10 d Tax provisions, the current ongoing tax audits relate to our Moroccan business where we expect an outcome with any tax payment made to be immaterial to the tax charge.
The Directors are satisfied that, based on current knowledge, adequate tax provisions are held to cover any tax uncertainties.
The Group has tax provisions at 31 December 2017 of 9.6m 2016: 5.4m.
There are no material contingent liabilities relating to tax.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 175 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 175 36 Related party transactions Amount of Amounts due from Amounts due to transactions related parties related parties 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Joint ventures ALSA joint venture 0.2 Associates ALSA associates 0.9 2.5 1.4 1.2 1.7 1.0 Trade investments Alsa trade investments 5.3 4.8 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.9 Property transactions ALSA 3.8 3.9 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.4 Total other related parties 9.1 8.7 0.7 0.6 1.3 0.8 Total 10.0 11.2 2.3 1.8 2.5 2.3 A number of Spanish companies have leased properties from companies related to the Cosmen family.
Jorge Cosmen is a Non-Executive Director of the Group and was appointed as Deputy Chairman in October 2008.
These leases were in place before the Groups acquisition of ALSA and are for appropriate market rates.
The details of the post-employment benefit plans operated for the benefit of employees of the Group are disclosed in note 34.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 2017 2016 m m Total compensation paid to key management personnel note 7 6.0 4.1 176 176 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 37 Cash flow statement a Reconciliation of Group profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2017 2016 Total operations m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 156.4 134.8 Loss profit before tax from discontinued operations note 11 1.5 6.4 Total profit before tax 154.9 141.2 Net finance costs 38.0 50.0 Share of results from associates and joint ventures 3.5 1.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 135.6 123.0 Intangible asset amortisation 41.6 33.8 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 1.0 0.5 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5.9 5.4 Share-based payments 5.3 4.1 Increase decrease in inventories 0.5 1.1 Increase in receivables 42.5 52.7 Increase in payables 62.5 23.6 Decrease increase in provisions 3.4 22.8 Cash generated from operations 359.0 330.2 b Analysis of changes in net debt At At 1 January Acquisitions Exchange Other 31 December 2017 Cash flow and disposals differences movements 2017 m m m m m m Components of financing activities: Bank and other loans 0.8 13.3 98.7 3.7 0.7 115.6 Bonds 983.2 126.8 1.9 2.6 851.9 Fair value of interest rate derivatives 14.4 4.1 10.3 Fair value of foreign exchange swaps 11.1 1.5 3.9 5.7 Cross currency swaps 11.1 1.0 10.1 Finance lease obligations 159.5 34.4 0.6 13.0 60.4 173.1 Other debt payable 0.5 1.1 72.4 2.8 73.6 Total components of financing activities 57.3 13.9 1,206.8 4.3 61.5 1,201.4 Cash 72.3 38.7 9.1 1.2 100.7 Overnight deposits 3.5 1.4 4.9 Other short-term deposits 248.6 208.7 39.9 Cash and cash equivalents 324.4 0.2 9.1 1.2 314.3 Other debt receivables 0.5 0.2 0.7 Remove: Fair value of foreign exchange swaps 3.9 5.7 11.1 1.5 Net debt 878.0 63.4 13.4 1.6 61.5 887.9 Excludes accrued interest on long-term borrowings Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 177 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 177 37 Cash flow statement continued b Analysis of changes in net debt continued Short-term deposits included within liquid resources relate to term deposits repayable within three months.
Borrowings include non-current interest-bearing borrowings of 1,058.0m 2016: 816.7m as disclosed in note 28.
Other non-cash movements in net debt include finance lease additions of 60.4m 2016: 39.5m and a 1.2m reduction from the amortisation of loan and bond arrangement fees 2016: 2.7m.
A 4.1m decrease to the fair value of the hedging derivatives is offset by opposite movements in the fair value of the related hedged borrowings.
This comprises a 3.2m fair value increase in bonds and a 1.1m fair value increase in other debt payable.
At At 1 January Exchange Other 31 December 2016 Cash flow Acquisitions differences movements 2016 m m m m m m Components of financing activities: Bank and other loans 45.3 53.5 0.2 19.9 1.4 13.3 Bonds 583.5 398.9 0.8 983.2 Fair value of interest rate derivatives 14.3 0.1 14.4 Fair value of foreign exchange swaps 0.6 46.3 50.8 3.9 Cross currency swaps 11.1 11.1 Finance lease obligations 127.6 37.9 6.0 24.3 39.5 159.5 Other debt payable 64.6 2.4 9.2 1.0 72.4 Total components of financing activities 806.1 258.8 6.2 93.1 42.6 1,206.8 Cash 59.2 2.2 9.1 6.2 72.3 Overnight deposits 0.7 2.8 3.5 Other short-term deposits 0.5 248.1 248.6 Cash and cash equivalents 60.4 248.7 9.1 6.2 324.4 Other debt receivables 0.8 0.4 0.1 0.5 Fair value of foreign exchange swaps 0.6 46.3 50.8 3.9 Net debt 745.5 56.8 2.9 36.0 42.6 878.0 Excludes accrued interest on long-term borrowings.
c Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt restated 2017 2016 m m Decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year 257.8 8.9 Cash inflow outflow from movement in other debt receivables 0.2 0.4 Cash inflow outflow from movement in debt and finance leases 58.7 311.3 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 50.0 53.9 Change in net debt resulting from non-cash movements 78.6 59.9 Movement in net debt in the year 9.9 132.5 Opening net debt 745.5 878.0 Net debt 887.9 878.0 38 Post Balance Sheet events There are no post balance sheet events.
178 178 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and companies in which National Express Group PLC has a controlling interest as at 31 December 2017 is shown below, along with the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned.
% equity % equity Name and country of incorporation interest Name and country of incorporation interest United Kingdom United Kingdom continued Airlinks The Airport Coach Company Limited, National National Express North America Holdings Limited Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 07855182, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Altram LRT Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Operations Stansted Limited, Heathrow Coach Centre, Sipson Road, West Drayton, Middlesex, Central Trains Limited, National Express House, UB7 0HN 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Operations Limited, Heathrow Coach E Clarke & Son Coaches Limited, National Express House, Centre, Sipson Road, West Drayton, Middlesex, UB7 0HN 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Petermann UK Limited 07855188, Eurolines UK Limited, National Express House, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 B5 6DD 100 Helium Miracle 236 Limited, National Express House, National Express Rail Replacement Limited, National Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited, National Express National Express Services Limited, National Express House, House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 London Eastern Railway Limited, National Express House, National Express Spanish Holdings Limited, National Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 40 Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Maintrain Limited, National Express House, National Express Trains Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Midland Main Line Limited, National Express House, National Express Transport Holdings Limited 04338163, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, National Express East Anglia Trains Limited, National B5 6DD 100 Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express UK Limited, National Express House, National Express European Holdings Limited 05652775, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, NE Canada Limited 08596333, National Express House, B5 6DD 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Finance Company Limited, National NE Durham UK Limited 08270480, National Express Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Group Holdings Limited 04339932, NE Europe Finance Limited 07876047, National Express National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 B5 6DD 100 NE No.
1 Ltd, National Express House, National Express Holdings Limited 02156473, National Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 NE No.
2 Ltd, National Express House, National Express Intermediate Holdings Limited, National Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 NE No.
3 Limited, National Express House, National Express International Limited, National Express Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 NE Trains South Limited, National Express House, National Express Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 NX Bahrain Bus Company Plc, National Express House, National Express Manchester Metrolink Limited, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 51 Bordesley Green, Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 NX Crossrail Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 NX Services Limited, National Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 179 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 179 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation interest Name and country of incorporation interest United Kingdom continued United Kingdom continued NXEA Trains Limited, National Express House, WM Card Systems Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 NXEC Trains Limited, National Express House, WM Property Holdings Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 NXSR Trains Limited, National Express House, WM Travel Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 PTI Website Limited, 50 Eastbourne Terrace, WM Ventures Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Paddington, London, W2 6LG 20 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 Scotrail Railways Limited, National Express House, Bahrain Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Bahrain Public Transport Company W. L. L. Garage 1087, Silverlink Train Services Limited, National Express House, Road 4025, Isa Town 840, Southern Governorate, Kingdom Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 of Bahrain 50 Speedlink Airport Services Limited, National Express House, Finland Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Ecolane Finland Oy, Metsanneidonkuja 4, Espoo, 02130 100 Taybus Holdings Limited, 44 48 East Dock Street, Dundee, Germany DD1 3JS 100 National Express Germany GmbH, Trakehner Strasse 7-9, Tayside Public Transport Co. Limited, 60487 Frankfurt am Main, Germany 100 44 48 East Dock Street, Dundee, DD1 3JS 100 National Express Holding GmbH, Vogelsanger Weg 38, The Kings Ferry Limited, National Express House, 40470 Dsseldorf, Germany 100 Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 National Express Rail GmbH, Maximinenstrasse 6, 50668 Travel Birmingham Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Cologne, Germany 100 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 National Express Sdwest GmbH, Vogelsanger Weg 38, Travel Coventry Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Birmingham, 40470 Dsseldorf, Germany 100 B9 4BZ 100 Czech Republic Travel Dundee Limited, 44 48 East Dock Street, National Express Cz s. r. o. in liquidation, Seifertova 327 85, Dundee, DD1 3JS 100 130 00 Praha, Zizkov, Czech Republic 100 Travel Merryhill Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Birmingham, Netherlands B9 4BZ 100 National Express Holdings LLC BV, Dr Willem Dreesweg 2, Travel West Midlands Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, st 1 Fl.
South Wing, 1185 VB Amstelveen, The Netherlands 100 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 st Texan Partner BV, Dr Willem Dreesweg 2, 1 Fl.
South Travel WM Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Wing, 1185 VB Amstelveen, The Netherlands 100 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 Andorra Travel Yourbus Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Birmingham, Estaci 2017, S. A. Carrer fide la Cria, s n, Andorra la Vella B9 4BZ 100 Estaci dAutobusos dAndorra, Av.
fide Tarragona, 42, West Anglia Great Northern Railway Limited, National AD500 Andorra la Vella 100 Express House, Mill Lane, Digbeth, Birmingham, B5 6DD 100 Transports Dels Pirineus, Av.
fide Tarragona, 42, West Midlands Transport Information Services Limited, AD500 Andorra la Vella 100 Unit 8 Pendeford Place, pendeford Business Park, Wobaston Road, Wolverhampton, WV9 5HD 20 France West Midlands Travel Limited, 51 Bordesley Green, Iberolines, 41 Boulevard Poniatowski, 75012, Paris 46 Birmingham, B9 4BZ 100 SARL Chamexpress.
com, 498 Avenue des Algapes, 74310 Les Houches 100 180 180 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation interest Name and country of incorporation interest Morocco Spain continued Alsa City Agadir S. A.
153, Quartier Industriel Sidi Ghanem, Alsa Grupo, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 98 Marrakech 100 Alsa Internacional, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid Alsa City Sightseeing Maroc, Ahwaz, Ferme Ahzib Achayech 28037 100 Ferkat Ain Dada, Askedjour, Jamaat Et Kiadat Saada, Alsa Internacional, S. L. U. y Otros U. T. E. C Alcal, 478, Marrakech 100 Madrid 28027 100 Alsa City Tour S. A. R. L. Ahwaz, Ferme Ahzib Achayech Alsa Metropolitana, S. A. U.
C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 Ferkat Ain Dada, Askedjour, Jamaat Et Kiadat Saada, Alsa Rail, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Marrakech 95 Aplic.
Integrales Para el Transporte, S. A. Pol.
San Alsa Education a la Scurit Routire S. A. R. L. Ahwaz, Mateo, Ctra Coll D En Rabassa, Palma fide Mallorca Ferme Ahzib Achayech Ferkat Ain Dada, Askedjour, 07002 100 Jamaat Et Kiadat Saada, Marrakech 98 Aragonesa fide Estacion fide Autobuses, S. A. Urbanizacin o Alsa Khouribga S. A. N 22 Rue Meknes Hay Haboub, Plaza fide Roma, F-1, Zaragoza 23 Khouribga 100 Asturies Berlinas fide Luxu, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19- 2 Alsa Tanger S. A.
37 Rue Omar Ibn Khettab, Inmeuble Izquierda, Madrid 28001 100 Maspalomas 2, Tanger 100 Autedia, S. L. Avda Juan Pablo II, 33, Granada 50 Centre fide Formation Techn.
Transport S. A. R. L. Autobuses Urbanos fide Bilbao, S. A.
C Tellaetxebidea 3, Ahwaz, Ferme Ahzib Achayech Ferkat Ain Dada, Askedjour, Bilbao 75 Jamaat Et Kiadat Saada, Marrakech 99 Autobuses Urbanos fide Len, S. A. U. Pol.
Vilecha Groupe Alsa Transport S. A. Rue Tehran, s n, Quartier Oeste, Len 24192 100 Industriel, Agadir MR-80000 100 Autocares CastillaLen, S. A. U. Estacin fide Autobuses, Immeubles, Vehicules Accesoires Maroc S. A. R. L. 153, Av Ingeniero Saenz fide Miera, Len 24009 100 Quartier Industriel Sidi Ghanem, Marrakech 80 Autocares Discrecionales del Norte, S. L. U. Alameda fide Interprovincial Maroc S. A. R. L. Ahwaz, Ferme Ahzib o o Urquijo, n 85, 1 Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Achayech Ferkat Ain Dada, Askedjour, Jamaat Et Kiadat Saada, Marrakech 100 Automviles Luarca, S. A. U. Magnus Blikstad 2, Gijn 33207 100 Transport fide Voyageurs en Autocar Maroc S. A.
153, Quartier Industriel Sidi Ghanem, Marrakech 100 Autos Pelayo, S. A. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Portugal Baleares Business Cars, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19- 2 Izquierda, Madrid 28001 100 Alsa Metropolitano do Porto, Lda, Avenida das Foras Berlinas fide Asturias, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Izquierda, Armadas, N 125, 12 Lisboa 100 Madrid 28001 100 Tiac Viagens e Turismo Lda, Rua fide Pedro Numes, 39, Lisboa 100 Berlinas fide Extremadura, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Izquierda, Madrid 28001 100 Slovakia Berlinas Calecar, S. L. U. Avenida Ingeniero Saenz fide Efc Spol s. r. o. Teheln 23 83103, Bratislava Miera, s n Estacin fide Autobuses, Len 24009 100 Nov Mesto 80 Berlinas fide Canarias, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Izquierda, Spain Madrid 28001 100 Alianza Bus, S. L. U.
C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 Berlinas fide Toledo, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Izquierda, AlmeriaMurcia Bus, S. L. Avda Juan Pablo II, 33, Granada 100 Madrid 28001 100 Alsa Atlntica, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Berlinas Tibus, S. L. U, C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 Alsa Ferrocarril, S. A. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Berlinas VTC fide Cantabria, S. L. U. Avenida fide Candina, n Alsa Granada Airport S. L. Avda Juan Pablo II, 33, Granada 100 35, Santander 39011 100 Alsa Grupo Intercontinental, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 181 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 181 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation interest Name and country of incorporation interest Spain continued Spain continued o Buses fide Palencia, S. L. C Campaneros, 4, 1 Dcha, Estacin fide Autobuses fide Astorga, S. L. Avda Las Murallas, Palencia 34003 100 n 52, Astorga-Len 24700 79 Bus Metropolitano fide Granada, S. L. Avenida Juan Pablo II, Estacin fide Autobuses fide Aviles S. L. C Los Telares Estacin fide Autobuses Aviles 33400 100 33 Estacin fide Autobuses, Granada 18013 50 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Benavente, S. L. Avda Primo fide Busturialdea Lea Artibai Bus, S. A. Centro fide Transportes Rivera, Benaventa 23 fide Vizcaya, Barrio el Juncal, Naves 3 y 4 Valle fide TrpagaTrapagrn, Vizcaya 48510 65 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Len, S. A. Estacin fide Autobuses, Avda Ingeniero Saenz fide Miera, Len 24009 89 Canary Business Cars, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Izquierda, Madrid 28001 100 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Plasencia, S. A.
C Tornavacas, 2, Plasencia 52 Catalua Business Cars, S. L. C Jorge Juan, 19-2 Izquierda, Madrid 28001 100 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Ribadeo, S. L. Avda Rosala fide 50 Castro, Ribadeo Center Bus, S. L. Paseo fide Moret, 7, Madrid 90 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Vitoria, S. L. C Los Herran, Cetralsa Formacin, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 32 50 Estacin fide Autobuses, Alava Vitoria 28037 100 Estacin fide Lineas Regulares, S. L. Plaza fide las Estacones, Ca.
del Tranva Elctrico fide Aviles, S. A. Avda Conde fide Santander Cantabria 46 Guadalhorce 123, Aviles 33400 87 Estacines Terminales fide Autobuses, S. A. Avda Menndez Compaia Navarra fide Autobuses, S. A.
C Yanguas y Pidal, n 13 Estaccin fide Autobuses, Valencia 46009 79 Miranda, 2 Estacin fide Autobuses, Pamplona 50 o o Euska Alsa, S. L. U. Alameda fide Urquijo, n 85, 1 -Dcha.
Compostelana, S. A. U. Plaza San Cayetano, s n. Estacin BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Autobuses Taq.
10, Santiago fide Compostela La Corua 100 Extremadura Business Limousines, S. L. C Jorge Juan, Concesionario Estacin Autobuses Logroo, S. A. Avda fide 19-2 Izquierda, Madrid 28001 100 Espaa, 1, LogrooLa Rioja 21  Bus, S. A. Centro fide Transportes  21, S. L. U. Avda Amrica 9-A, fide Vizcaya, Barrio el Juncal, Naves 3 y 4 Valle fide Trpagaintercambiador fide Autobuses, Madrid 28002 100 Trapagrn, Vizcaya 48510 65 Dainco, S. A. U. Avda Filiberto Villalobos, n 71, Salamanca 50 G. S. Carretera, Plaza fide la Constitucin, Estacin fide 100 Ebrobus, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 Autobuses, 2 Planta, Oficina 26, Lugo 25 Estacin Autobuses fide Cartagena, S. A. Avda Trovero General Tcnica Industrial, S. L. U.
N 3, Estacin Autobuses, Cartagena 30202 Madrid 28037 100 Estacin Autobuses fide Ponferrada, S. A. Ctra fide Asturias, o Gorbea Representaciones, S. L. Alameda fide Urquijo, n 85, Ponferrada 49 o 1 Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Estacin Central fide Autobuses fide Zaragoza, S. A. Grupo Enatcar, S. A.
C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 Avda fide Navarra, 80 Estacin Central fide Autobuses, Ibero-Euro Sur, S. L. C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 20 Zaragoza 50011 19 Inforcyl, S. A. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Siero, S. L. C Ramn y Cajal, Informtica, Comunicaciones y Logstica, S. L. U. Alameda Pola fide Siero 50 fide Urquijo, no 85, 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Estacin fide Autobuses Aguilar fide Campoo, S. L. Avda fide Intercambiadores Europeos, S. L. C Miguel Fleta, 4, Ronda 52 Bis, Aguilar fide Campoo Palencia 67 Madrid 28037 95 Estacin fide Autobuses Chamartin, S. A. P fide la Castellana, Internacional fide Autocares, S. A. U.
C Alcal, 478, 216, Madrid 49 Madrid 28027 93 Estacin fide Autobuses fide Aranda fide Duero, S. L. International Business Limousines, S. A. U. Pol.
Avda Valladolid, Aranda fide Duero Burgos 43 Las Fronteras.
C Limite, Torrejn fide Ardoz Madrid 100 Interurbana fide Autocares, S. A. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Irubus, S. A. U.
C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 Jimenez Lopera, S. A. U. Pol.
C Limite, Torrejn fide Ardoz Madrid 100 182 182 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation interest Name and country of incorporation interest Spain continued Spain continued Julia Travel S. A. Automoviles Luarca S. A. U. Transportes Serviareas 2000, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Bacoma S. A. U. U. T. E. C Puerto Used, 20, Madrid 50 Servicios Auxiliares del Transporte C. B.
C Mendez lvaro Julia Travel y Automoviles Luarca Sa Ute, Avda Sancho El Estacin fide Autobuses, Madrid 100 Sabio, 31, Donostia 50 Servicios Empresariales Especiales, S. L. U. Alameda fide La Tafallesa, S. A. U.
C Yanguas y Miranda, 2 Urquijo, no 85, 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Estacin fide Autobuses, Pamplona 50 Servicios Generales fide Automocin, S. A. U. Alameda fide La Unin Alavesa, S. L. C Los Herran, 50 Urquijo, no 85, 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Estacin fide Autobuses, Alava Vitoria 50 Servicios VTC Tibus, S. L. U.
C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 La Unin fide Benisa, S. A.
C Comunicaciones, 10 Setra Ventas y Servicios, S. A. U. Pol.
P. fide Babel, Alicante 03008 98 C Limite, Torrejn fide Ardoz Madrid 100 Lineas Europeas fide Autobuses, S. A.
C Guillem fide Castro, Sociedad Annima Unipersonal Alsina Graells fide A. T. 77, Valencia 43 C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide Autobuses, Barcelona 08013 100 Los Abades fide la Gineta, S. L. U.
C Alcal, 478, Madrid Tcnicas en Vehculos Automviles, S. L. U.
C Alcal, 478, 28027 100 Madrid 28027 100 Mai Tours, S. L. U. Avenida fide la Hispanidad OParking Tcnologias Formativas en Simuladores, S. L. Newton, P12, Barajas, Madrid 100 50 6, Edificio 6, Nave, 6.
P, Legans, Madrid 28914 Movelia Tecnologias, S. L. C Santa Leonor, 65 Avaln Terminal fide Autobuses fide Garellano, S. L. Alameda fide Parque Empresarial, Edificio A, Madrid 78 Mazarredo, 21, Bilbao 41 Mundaka Consultoria, S. L. U. Alameda fide Urquijo, no 85, Tibus, S. A.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide Autobuses, 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Barcelona 08013 100 NEX Continental Holdings, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Tibus Berlines fide Luxe, S. L. U.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide Madrid 28037 100 Autobuses, Barcelona 08013 100 NX Middle East, S. L. U.
C Inglaterra, 20-22, Palencia Tibus Business Cars, S. L. U.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide 34004 100 Autobuses Barcelona, 08013 100 Proyectos Unificados, S. A. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid Tibus Business Limousines, S. L. U.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide Tibus Luxury Services, S. L. U.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide Autobuses, Barcelona 08013 100 Autobuses, Barcelona 08013 100 Representaciones Mecnica, S. A. U. Alameda fide Urquijo, Transporte Colectivos, S. A. U. Gran Va fide D. Ingacio fide n o 85, 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Haro, 81, Bilbao 100 Rutas a Catalua, S. A.
C Musico Gustavo Freire, 1 -1 Transportes Accesibles Peninsulares, S. L. C Pepe Dcha, Lugo 27001 28 Cosmen, Estacin fide Autobuses, Oviedo 33001 100 Rutas del Cantbrico, S. L. Alameda fide Urquijo, no 85, Transportes Adaptados Andaluces, S. A. U. Plaza Coca 1o Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 95 Piera, s n Estacin fide Autobuses, Jan 100 Semarvi, C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 34 Transportes Adaptados Regionales, S. L. U. Estacin fide 100 Autobuses, Av Ingeniero Saenz fide Miera, Len 24009 Transportes Adaptados Cntabros, S. A. Avda Candina, 35-37, Santander 39011 98 Transportes Bacoma, S. A. U.
C Ali Bei, 80 Estacin fide Autobuses, Barcelona 08013 100 Transportes fide Viajeros fide Aragn, S. A. Avda fide Navarra, 80 Estacin Central fide Autobuses, Zaragoza 50011 59 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 183 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 183 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation interest Name and country of incorporation interest Spain continued US Transportes Santo Domingo, S. L. U.
The Provider Enterprises, Inc. 9 Capitol Street, N 2 Getafe Madrid 100 Concord, NH 03301 100 Viajes ALSA, S. A. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 Beck Bus Transportation Corp. 208 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, County of Cook, IL 60604 100 Transportes Terrestres Cantabros, S. A. Avda Candina, 35-37, Santander 39011 93 Beck Bus Transportation III, LLC, 208 S. LaSalle Street, Transportes Unidos fide Asturias, S. L. Pol.
Espirtu Chicago, County of Cook, IL 60604 100 Santo, Oviedo 33010 100 Beck Bus Transportation IV, LLC, 208 S. LaSalle Street, Transportes Unidos, S. L. U.
C Miguel Fleta, 4, Chicago, County of Cook, IL 60604 100 Madrid 28037 100 Beck Bus Transportation, LLC, 208 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, County of Cook, IL 60604 100 Transportes Urbanos fide Cantabria, S. L. U. Avda Candina, 35-37, Santander 39011 100 Bus Co. Inc. 208 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, County Transportes Urbanos fide Cartagena, S. A. Paraje fide la of Cook, IL 60604 100 Asomada, Cartagena Murcia 97 Caravan Leasing Vehicles LLC, 8020 Excelsior Drive, Suite 200, Madison, WI 53717 100 100 Tranva fide Velez, S. A. U. Avda Juan Carlos I, s n. Ronda nd Carrier Management Corporation, 600 N. 2 Street, Suite del Ingeniero, Vlez Mlaga Mlaga 401, Harrisburg, PA 17101-1071 100 Transportes Urbanos fide Guadalajara, S. L. Polgono nd Community Transportation, Inc. 600 N. 2 Street, Industrial del Henares, Calle Livorno, 55, Marchamalo, Suite 401, Harrisburg, PA 17101-1071 100 Guadalajara 19180 100 Tranvas Metropolitanas fide Granada, S. A. U. Avenida fide Cook-DuPage Transportation Company, Inc. 208 S. Cdiz, nmero 70, 1-B, Granada 100 LaSalle Street, Chicago, IL 60604 100 o o Tury Express, S. A. Alameda fide Urquijo, n 85, 1 -Dcha.
Diamond Transportation Services, Inc. 4701 Cox Road, BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Glen Allen, County of Henrico, VA 23060 100 Durham D&M LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Ute Catamaranes Bahia Cadiz, Avda Jos Len fide Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide Carranza, n 20, Cdiz 23 19801-1120 100 Ute Ea Cordoba, Glorieta fide las Tres Culturas, Crdoba 50 Durham Holding I, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Ute Extremadura, C Alcal, 478, Madrid 28027 100 Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide Ute Guadalajara, C Miguel Fleta, 4, Madrid 28037 100 19801-1120 100 Ute Mundiplan, C Ruiz Perell, 15, Madrid 17 Durham Holding II, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Ute Murcia City Tour, Magnus Blikstad 2, Gijn 33207 50 Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Ute Ea Alicante, Muelle fide Poniente, Alicante 50 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 o Viajes Por Carretera, S. A. U. Alameda fide Urquijo, n 85, Durham School Services, L. P. 1209 Orange Street, o 1 -Dcha.
BilbaoVizaya 48013 100 Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Voramar el Gaucho S. L. U.
S Hort den Serral San Agustn San Josep fide sa Talaia, Illes Balears 100 Ecolane USA, Inc. 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Zamorana fide Transportes, S. A. U. Ctra ZamoraTrust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide Salamanca Km 3,5.
Morales del Vino Zamora 100 19801-1120 100 nd Greensburg Yellow Cab Co. 600 N. 2 Street, Suite Switzerland 401, Harrisburg, PA 17101-1071 100 AlpyBus S. a. r. l. 8 Chemin fide Morglas, 1214, Genve 100 Haid Acquisitions LLC, 1242 Garden Circle, Eggmann Frey, Rue du Mont Blanc 14, 1201, Genve 100 Wyoming, OH 45215 100 GVA Transfers.
com S. a. r. l. 8 Chemin fide Morglas, 1214, Genve 100 Linien Abfertigung GmbH, Rue du Mont Blanc 14, 1201, Genve 80 Odier Excursions, S. A. Chemin Des Aulx 9 Plan Les Ouates - Switzerland 100 184 184 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2017 39 Subsidiary undertakings and other significant holdings continued % equity % equity Name and country of incorporation interest Name and country of incorporation interest US continued US continued Petermann STSA, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation JNC Leasing, Inc. 40600 Ann Arbor Road E. Suite 201, Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801- Plymouth, MI 48170-4675 100 1120 100 Meda-Care Vans of Waukesha, Inc. 301 S. Bedford St. PM2 Co. LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Suite 1, Madison, WI 53703 100 100 Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 MF Petermann Investment Corporation, 1209 Orange Queen City Transportation, LLC, 1242 Garden Circle, Wyoming, OH 45215 100 Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Rainbow Management Service, Inc. 111 Eighth Avenue, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 New York, New York, 10011 100 MV Student Transportation, Inc. 40 West Lawrence, Safeway Training and Transportation Services, Inc. Suite A, Helena, Montana 59601 100 9 Capitol Street, Concord, NH 03301 100 National Express Acquisition Corporation, 1209 Orange Septran, Inc. 150 West Market Street, Suite 800, 100 Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Indianapolis, IN 46204 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Smith Bus Service, Inc. 2405 York Road, Ste.
201, 100 Lutherville Timonium, MD 21093-2264 National Express Durham Holding Corporation, 1209 Suburban Paratransit Services, Inc. 111 Eighth Avenue, Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle New York, New York, 10011 100 County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Trans Express, Inc. 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New National Express LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation York, 10011 100 Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide Transit Express, Inc. 301 S. Bedford St. Suite 1, Madison, 100 19801-1120 WI 53703 100 National Express Transit Corporation, 1209 Orange Transit Express Services, Inc. 301 S. Bedford St. Suite 1, Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Madison, WI 53703 100 100 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 Trinity, Inc. 40600 Ann Arbor Road E. Suite 201, Plymouth, National Express Transit Services Corporation, 1209 MI 48170-4675 100 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle Trinity Cars, Inc. 40600 Ann Arbor Road E. Suite 201, County, Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Plymouth, MI 48170-4675 100 New Dawn Transit LLC, 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, Trinity Coach LLC, 40600 Ann Arbor Road E. Suite 201, New York, 10011 100 Plymouth, MI 48170-4675 100 Petermann Acquisition Co. LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Trinity Management Services Co. LLC, 4624 13th St.
Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Wyandotte, MI 48192 100 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 Trinity Student Delivery LLC, 40600 Ann Arbor Road E. Petermann Acquisition Corporation, 1209 Orange Street, Suite 201, Plymouth, MI 48170-4675 100 Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, 100 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 TWB Transport, LLC, 208 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, County of Cook, IL 60604 100 Petermann Holding Co. LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, White Plains Bus Co. Inc. 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, 100 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 New York, 10011 100 Petermann Ltd. 4400 Easton Commons Way, Whitetail Bid Co. LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Columbus, County of Franklin, OH 43219 100 Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide 19801- 1120 100 Petermann Northeast, LLC, 4400 Easton Commons Way, Columbus, County of Franklin, OH 43219 100 Canada Petermann Northwest, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, National Express Canada Holdings Ltd. 155 University Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Avenue, Suite 700, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 3B7 100 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 100 National Express Canada Transit Ltd. 155 University Petermann Partners, Inc. 1209 Orange Street, Avenue, Suite 700, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 3B7 100 Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, Stock Transportation Ltd. 155 University Avenue, Suite 700, 100 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 3B7 100 Petermann Southwest, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Trust Center, New Castle County, These subsidiaries are exempt from the requirements of the UK Companies Act 100 Wilmington, fide 19801-1120 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of S479A of the Act.
Petermann STS, LLC, 1209 Orange Street, Corporation Outstanding liabilities of the exempt companies at the Balance Sheet date are Trust Center, New Castle County, Wilmington, fide guaranteed pursuant to Sections 479A-C of the Act.
