Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 99 Strategic Report Contents Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements 100 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 108 Group Income Statement 109 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 110 Group Balance Sheet 111 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 112 Group Cash Flow Statement 113 Notes to the Financial Statements 154 Five Year Summary 155 Parent Company Balance Sheet 156 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 160 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 176 Shareholder Information Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 100 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion: Reckitt Benckiser Group plcs Group Financial Statements and Parent Company Financial Statements the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law : and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, which comprise: theGroup and Parent Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2017: the Group Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income, theGroup Cash Flow Statement, and the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the Financial Statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee Report and Note 4 to the Financial Statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 145 million 2016: 138 million, based on 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations, adjusted for exceptional items.
Overall Parent Company materiality: 72 million 2016: 72 million, based on 0.5% of total assets.
Materiality We conducted audit work over 57 reporting units across 18 countries in which the Group has significant operations.
The reporting units where we performed an audit of their complete financial information accounted for 74% of Group revenue and 78% of Group profit before income tax, adjusted for non-recurring exceptional items.
The Group engagement team visited, in person, 12 of the 19 component audit teams to attend audit clearance meetings and discuss the audit approach and findings with those local teams.
Audit scope For those countries not visited in person we attended their clearance meetings via phone call or video conferencing.
We maintained regular contact with the local team and evaluated the outcome of their audit work.
We reviewed the working papers of Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte who performed the audit of the MeadJohnson Nutrition sub-group.
Key audit Accounting for customer trade spend Group.
matters Provision for uncertain tax positions Group.
Valuation of provisions from liabilities arising from legal investigations Group and Parent Company.
Accounting for the Mead Johnson acquisition Group.
The classification of adjusting items Group.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment Group.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 101 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors' work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the Financial Statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the Financial Statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for customer trade spend Refer to page 73 Audit Committee review of areas of significant Our audit procedures included understanding and evaluating the controls judgement and page 114 Accounting Policies.
and systems related to the trade spend process, and where appropriate obtaining audit evidence through testing operating effectiveness of As is industry practice, in a number of countries in which the Group relevant controls together with substantive audit procedures.
operates there are numerous types of complex commercial arrangements with retailers and other customers that have a range of terms for example Testing of controls included examining appropriate authorisation for trade promotions, rebates and discounts.
spend agreements and contracts, considering segregation of duties over the creation and approval of the accruals and testing the resolution of Trade spend arrangements have varying terms, some of which are variations between actual and expected trade spend.
supported by annual contracts or joint business plans, whilst others are based on shorter term agreements entered into during the year.
In The substantive audit procedures performed for each individual addition, the level and timing of promotions for individual products or component varied depending upon the component team and the nature ranges varies from period to period, and activity can span over a year end.
of the trade spend and type of agreement but included the following These judgements impact the reported results of the country, segment tests, on a sample basis: and the Group and in particular influence the calculation of net revenue Agreeing costs incurred during the year to invoices and other and country operating profit, both of which are key performance correspondence from the customers and subsequent settlement: indicators for management incentive schemes.
Agreeing key elements of the estimates to supporting documentation such as joint business plans, contracts and EPOS data: We consider there to be a specific risk associated with the accuracy of the Circularising external confirmations to the customers to confirm the trade spend that has been incurred in the year as this is material and can be existence of specific promotions and the underlying key assumptions complex and judgemental.
In particular we focused on the approval of the of the accrual calculation: arrangements, the period to which the spend relates and whether balances Recalculating managements estimates: had been settled.
"In addition, we focused on estimates of the obligations Evaluating the accuracy of the prior year trade spend balance by at the reporting date in respect of all trade spend arrangements ""trade comparing the historic accruals to actual spend incurred: and spend accruals""."
We focused on this area due to the complexity and level Testing trade spend transactions around the year end to determine of judgement required in making the key assumptions underpinning the whether they had been recognised in the appropriate period.
For example: The date of shipment to the retailer and the period over which the As the Group engagement team, we were specifically involved in determining and assessing the appropriateness of the audit approach for promotion will run may differ: Details of the retailers EPOS data may be required to determine the each component in this area.
This satisfied us that sufficient focus was placed on the more judgemental areas and that, whilst complex, the area accuracy of trade spend committed at the reporting date: and Promotions may span over the year end and therefore estimation of the was well understood and sufficient focus was placed on the risk area.
future volume or margin levels of the retailer must be forecast to determine the level of the accrual required.
Therefore, our areas of focus included whether the accruals were misstated and appropriately valued, whether trade spend was recorded in the correct period and whether the significant one-off transactions had been accurately recorded in the Income Statement.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 102 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provision for uncertain tax positions Refer to page 49 Principal risks and page 73 Audit Committee review of We updated our detailed understanding of the Groups tax strategy and areas of significant judgement, Note 7 Income Tax Benefit Expense and Group transfer pricing policy, particularly in relation to any changes Note 21 Current and Non-current Tax Liabilities.
implemented during 2017 and we assessed key technical tax issues and risks related to business and legislative developments using, where Due to the Group operating across a number of different tax jurisdictions it applicable, our local and international tax specialists.
is subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the normal course of business.
These challenges include We obtained explanations from management and corroborative evidence transaction related tax matters, financing and transfer pricing including, communication with local tax authorities, details of progress arrangements arising from centralised functions that drive value across a with Advanced Pricing Agreements and copies of external tax advice number of different countries.
reports relating to tax treatments applied and the corresponding provisions recorded.
Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions based on managements judgement of the probable amount of We challenged managements key assumptions, in particular on cases the liability.
where there had been significant developments with local tax authorities, noting no significant deviations from our expectations.
We focused on the judgements made by management in assessing the quantification and likelihood of certain potential exposures and therefore We also evaluated whether the liabilities and potential exposures were the level of provision required for specific cases.
We also considered the appropriately disclosed in the Financial Statements, which included the impact of changes in country tax environments across the Group, which classification of interest and tax penalties in line with the recent could materially impact the amounts recorded in the Financial Statements.
clarification by the IFRS Interpretations Committee.
Valuation of provisions from liabilities arising from legal investigations Refer to page 46 and 50 Principal risks, Note 17 Provisions for liabilities Our audit procedures focused on the assumptions and judgements made and Charges and Note 19 Contingent Liabilities and Assets.
by management in determining the recognition and valuation of associated provisions and contingent liabilities.
In 2017 the Group has been subject to legal investigations in respect of the Humidifier Santizer HS issue and the Group is involved in ongoing With regards to the provisions recorded for the HS issue, we obtained investigations by the US Department of Justice DOJ.
As at the balance and read relevant legal documents and reports from the Korean Ministry sheet date the Group has recorded provisions for both of these issues.
In addition, we obtained legal confirmation from the Groups external legal counsel.
We audited managements provisions There is a high level of management judgement associated with recorded using underlying information on the number of individuals determining the need for, and the magnitude of, provisions for any classified in Rounds 1 - 3 and the payments made to date.
liabilities arising from these investigations.
The Group has not made a public commitment to compensate Round 4 applicants in the HS issue case We challenged management on the need to provide for Round 4 victims and hence have not recorded a provision for Round 4 compensation.
in the HS issue and have obtained copies of the correspondence with local authorities on the consistency of the categorisation of victims.
We Therefore, we consider there to be a risk that the provisions may be held at have performed our own sensitivities based on categorisation and the incorrect value on the Balance Sheet and that disclosure within the payments made in previous Rounds and have noted that based on an Annual Report in respect of these cases and their potential impact on the expected number of Category I and II RB users the additional provision Financial Statements may not be sufficient.
required would not be material.
We have obtained managements experts calculation for the future medical provision and have used our actuarial experts to confirm the appropriateness of the assumptions used by managements expert.
No material issues were noted.
In respect of the DOJ matter, we obtained confirmations from the Groups external legal counsel on the status of discussions, and compared its description and assessment of the facts and circumstances of the cases and, where applicable the potential outcome against managements and the internal legal teams assessment.
We did not identify any significant inconsistencies.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 103 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for the Mead Johnson Nutrition acquisition Refer to page 50 Principal Risks and Note 27 Acquisitions We have obtained the purchase price allocation performed by managements experts and considered their methodology and On 15 June 2017 the Group acquired Mead Johnson Nutrition MJN.
Due assumptions using our own valuation experts.
to the size of the acquisition and the complexity and reliance on managements estimates and judgements, the acquisition accounting has We have assessed the cash flows for each of the brands and the been an area of focus for us.
The Group has calculated the provisional associated synergies, and considered the accounting with respect to the purchase price allocation and has identified fair value adjustments to incremental value derived from the Special Supplemental Nutrition property, plant and equipment, inventories and identified intangible assets.
Program for Women, Infants and Children, including the finite period of these contracts.
The identification and valuation of intangibles is a judgemental area and involves a number of management assumptions around synergies, cash We have understood managements opening balance sheet adjustments flow growth rates and the value that certain contracts may add to the and obtained supporting evidence to corroborate these.
measurement period adjustments posted since June 2017 are not material.
In addition, we instructed the component auditor, Deloitte, to audit the opening balance sheet.
No material issues were noted from the procedures performed.
The classification of adjusting items We obtained corroborative evidence for the items presented within Refer to page 114 accounting policies and Note 3 Analysis of Net Operating Expenses.
In the past few years the Group has had significant levels of exceptional We challenged managements rationale for the designation of certain items as adjusting and assessed such items against the Groups items which were disclosed separately within the Income Statement and excluded from managements reporting of the underlying results of the accounting policy and the consistency of treatment with prior periods.
This year the Group has redefined its accounting policy to identify adjusting items which comprise exceptional adjusting items and other We considered the new adjusting items in 2017 and whether these had been appropriately classified as exceptional or recurring.
We did not find adjusting items.
any issues with the classifications and nature of the items.
These adjusting items are differentiated by whether they are oneoff exceptional or recurring other in nature.
We also considered whether there were items that were recorded within underlying profit that we determined to be adjusting in nature and The Group has identified 3,864 million of net adjusting items which relate should have been included within adjusting items.
No such items were identified.
primarily to the gain on the disposal of the Food business, tax credits resulting from the US tax reforms, costs associated with the acquisition of Mead Johnson Nutrition, the recognition of a provision in relation to the DoJ investigation and Group-led restructuring programmes.
Our specific area of focus was to assess whether the items identified by management met the definition within the Groups accounting policy and have been treated consistently, as the identification of such items required judgement by management.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important to ensure comparability of year-on-year reporting within the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 104 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment Refer to page 73 Audit Committee review of areas of significant We evaluated the process by which management prepared its cash flow judgement and Note 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets forecasts and compared them against the latest Board approved plans and management approved forecasts.
We evaluated the historical The Group has goodwill of 11,501 million and other indefinite lived accuracy of the plans and forecasts, for example by comparing the intangible assets of 17,198 million as at 31 December 2017 which are forecasts used in the prior year model to the actual performance of the required to be tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Management has business in the current year.
These procedures enabled us to determine allocated these assets to individual cash generating units CGUs and the accuracy of the forecasting process and apply appropriate sensitivities groups of CGUs GCGUs and there is judgement around how these are to the cash flows.
determined, specifically in respect of changes in the year.
We assessed the appropriateness of managements discount rates, future In 2017 the Group acquired Mead Johnson Nutrition and as a result cash flows and long-term growth rates, specifically focusing on the CGUs recognised goodwill valued at 7,730 million and indefinite lived intangible identified opposite.
We benchmarked assumptions against industry and assets of 8,138 million at the balance sheet date.
The Group has created a peer group comparators and metrics such as country inflation rates.
In line with requirements an impairment assessment has been performed in the year of acquisition.
Based upon our assessments described above, we challenged management on the appropriateness of its sensitivity calculations by There is further judgement around the determination of the recoverable applying our own sensitivity analysis to the forecast cash flows, long-term amount, being the higher of value in use and fair value less costs of growth rates and discount rates to ascertain the extent to which disposal.
Recoverable amounts are based on managements view of the reasonable adverse changes would, either individually or in aggregate, future results and prospects of the business, the appropriate discount rates require an impairment of either the goodwill or indefinite life assets.
to be applied and specific risk factors applied to the GCGUs and CGUs.
Following these assessments we concluded that sensitivity disclosures were only required for the BMS and Oriental Pharma CGUs.
Due to BMS and Oriental Pharma being relatively recent acquisitions, and the regulatory changes within the Chinese healthcare market which We determined that no impairment charges were required, based on the impacted Oriental Pharmas current year trading, these CGUs remain results of our work.
Management has described the key sensitivities sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
The key judgements in applied in the Goodwill and other intangible assets note to the Financial determining the recoverable amount of these CGUs relate to the forecast Statements.
cash flows, long-term growth rates and product contribution.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised into two geographical regions being DvM Developing Markets including North Africa, Middle East excluding Israel, North Africa and Turkey, Africa, South Asia, North Asia, Latin America and ASEAN and ENA Europe including Russia and Israel, North America and Australia and New Zealand.
There is also a separate segment for the IFCN business which the Group acquired in June 2017.
In addition, the previously reported Food segment is no longer reported following the disposal of the business in the year and its classification as a discontinued operation.
Each country within the aforementioned geographical regions and IFCN consists of a number of management reporting entities which are consolidated by Group management.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of 777 reporting units representing the operating businesses within these geographical-based divisions and the centralised functions.
The reporting units vary in size and we identified 42 components from across the two geographic regions and IFCN business that required an audit of their complete financial information due to their individual size or risk characteristics.
The components where we performed an audit of their complete financial information accounted for 78% of the Groups profit before income tax for continuing operations, adjusted for exceptional items and 74% of the Groups revenue.
Included within these 42 components were three components that were audited by the Group engagement team, including the Groups treasury company and the Parent Company.
One of our components was the sub-consolidated MJN group which was audited by Deloitte.
Audits of the revenue financial statement line item were performed in a further two reporting units.
The 39 components, excluding those audited by the Group engagement team, are audited by 19 component auditor teams.
The Group engagement team visited 12 of the 19 local component teams to meet with local management, attend audit clearance meetings and discuss the audit approach and findings with the local audit teams.
Of the seven components not visited we attended their clearance meetings either via phone or video call.
For those countries not visited we had regular communication with the local teams, both before and after their audit.
Our attendance at the clearance meetings, review and discussion of the audit results at overseas locations, together with the additional procedures performed at a Group level described below, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
In addition, we visited eight components not in scope for the Group audit, to further enhance our understanding of both the RB and MJN businesses.
Our audit procedures at the Group level included the audit of the consolidation, the UK pension schemes due to their size and certain tax procedures.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 105 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent company Financial Statements Overall 145 million 2016: 138 million.
materiality How we 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations, adjusted for non- 0.5% of total assets.
determined it recurring adjusting items.
Rationale for Profit before income tax from continuing operations, adjusted for the We believe that total assets is the primary measure benchmark impact of non-recurring exceptional items, provides us with a consistent used by the shareholders in assessing the applied year-on-year basis for determining materiality and is, we believe, the metric performance of a holding company, and is a most commonly used by the Shareholders as a body in assessing the generally accepted auditing benchmark.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 8 million and 70 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 6 million Group audit 2016:6 million and 4 million Parent Company audit 2016: 4 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warrantedreporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, attention to in respect of the directors statement in the Financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this Statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial ability to continue as a going concern.
Statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to going We have nothing to report.
concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the Financial Statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 106 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Report of the Directors In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the Financial Statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 42 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 43 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 98, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 73 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the Financial Statements As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities set out on page 98, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 107 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 12 May 2000 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2000 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 18 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2000 to 31 December 2017.
Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 19 March 2018 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 108 Group Income Statement 1 Restated 2017 2016 For the year ended 31 December Note m m CONTINUING OPERATIONS Net Revenue 2 11,512 9,480 Cost of sales 4,642 3,679 Gross profit 6,870 5,801 Net operating expenses 3 4,133 3,532 Operating profit 2 2,737 2,269 Adjusted operating profit 3,122 2,636 Adjusting items 3 385 367 Operating profit 2,737 2,269 Finance income 6 60 42 Finance expense 6 298 58 Net finance expense 238 16 Profit before income tax 2,499 2,253 Income tax benefit expense 7 894 520 Net income from continuing operations 3,393 1,733 Net income from discontinued operations 28 2,796 103 Net income 6,189 1,836 Attributable to non-controlling interests 17 4 Attributable to owners of the parent 6,172 1,832 Net income 6,189 1,836 Basic earnings per ordinary share pence From continuing operations 8 480.6 245.6 From discontinued operations 8 398.1 14.6 From total operations 8 878.7 260.2 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence From continuing operations 8 474.7 242.1 From discontinued operations 8 393.2 14.4 From total operations 8 867.9 256.5 1.
Restated for the impact of discontinued operations.
Refer to Note 28 for details.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 109 Strategic Report Group Statement of Comprehensive Income Governance Financial Statements 1 Restated 2017 2016 For the year ended 31 December Note m m Net income 6,189 1,836 Other comprehensive expense income Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years Net exchange losses gains on foreign currency translation, net of tax 7 310 1,618 Gains losses on net investment hedges, net of tax 7 44 128 Gains losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax 7 3 22 Revaluation of available for sale financial assets 7 6 2 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on disposal of foreign operations, net of tax 7 145 112 1,466 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans, net of tax 7 12 138 Other comprehensive expense income, net of tax 100 1,328 Total comprehensive income 6,089 3,164 Attributable to non-controlling interests 15 4 Attributable to owners of the parent 6,074 3,160 Total comprehensive income 6,089 3,164 Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent arising from: Continuing operations 3,133 3,052 Discontinued operations 2,941 108 6,074 3,160 1.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 110 Group Balance Sheet 2017 2016 As at 31 December Note m m ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 9 29,487 13,454 Property, plant and equipment 10 1,754 878 Available for sale financial assets 14 41 39 Deferred tax assets 11 118 81 Retirement benefit surplus 22 90 36 Other non-current receivables 13 99 81 31,589 14,569 Current assets Inventories 12 1,201 770 Trade and other receivables 13 2,004 1,623 Derivative financial instruments 14 18 158 Current tax recoverable 58 14 Short-term investments 14 3 Cash and cash equivalents 15 2,125 882 5,406 3,450 Assets classified as held for sale 18 5,424 3,450 Total assets 37,013 18,019 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 16 1,346 1,585 Provisions for liabilities and charges 17 517 251 Trade and other payables 20 4,629 3,495 Derivative financial instruments 14 19 58 Current tax liabilities 21 65 12 6,576 5,401 Non-current liabilities Long-term borrowings 16 11,515 804 Deferred tax liabilities 11 3,443 1,983 Retirement benefit obligations 22 393 361 Provisions for liabilities and charges 17 81 174 Derivative financial instruments 14 12 Non-current tax liabilities 21 1,012 740 Other non-current liabilities 20 408 130 16,864 4,192 Total liabilities 23,440 9,593 Net assets 13,573 8,426 EQUITY Capital and reserves Share capital 23 74 74 Share premium 243 243 Merger reserve 14,229 14,229 Hedging reserve 25 1 4 Foreign currency translation reserve 25 407 526 Retained earnings 27,039 21,811 Attributable to owners of the parent 13,533 8,421 Attributable to non-controlling interests 40 5 Total equity 13,573 8,426 The Financial Statements on pages 108 to 153 were approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 19 March 2018 by: ADRIAN BELLAMY RAKESH KAPOOR Director Director Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 111 Strategic Report Group Statement of Changes in Equity Governance Financial Statements Total attributable to owners NonShare Share Merger Other Retained of the controlling Total capital premium reserves reserves earnings parent interests equity Notes m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2016 74 243 14,229 946 21,762 6,904 2 6,906 Comprehensive income Net income 1,832 1,832 4 1,836 Other comprehensive income expense 1,468 140 1,328 1,328 Total comprehensive income 1,468 1,692 3,160 4 3,164 Transactions with owners Treasury shares re-issued 23 79 79 79 Share-based payments 24 66 66 66 Current tax on share awards 7 14 14 14 Deferred tax on share awards 7 4 4 4 Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 23 702 702 702 Cash dividends 29 1,035 1,035 1 1,036 Transactions with non-controlling interests 61 61 61 Total transactions with owners 1,643 1,643 1 1,644 Balance at 31 December 2016 74 243 14,229 522 21,811 8,421 5 8,426 Comprehensive income Net income 6,172 6,172 17 6,189 Other comprehensive expense income 116 18 98 2 100 Total comprehensive expense income 116 6,190 6,074 15 6,089 Transactions with owners Treasury shares re-issued 23 94 94 94 Share-based payments 24 72 72 72 Current tax on share awards 7 20 20 20 Deferred tax on share awards 7 14 14 14 Cash dividends 29 1,134 1,134 11 1,145 Arising on business combinations 27 31 31 Total transactions with owners 962 962 20 942 Balance at 31 December 2017 74 243 14,229 406 27,039 13,533 40 13,573 The merger reserve relates to the 1999 combination of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. and a Group reconstruction in 2007 treated as a merger under Part 27 of the Companies Act 2006.
Refer to Note 25 for an explanation of other reserves.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 112 Group Cash Flow Statement 1 Restated 2017 2016 For the year ended 31 December Note m m CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating profit from continuing operations 2,737 2,269 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 223 177 Increase decrease in inventories 108 12 Increase in trade and other receivables 210 25 Increase decrease in payables and provisions 192 9 Non-cash adjusting items 247 318 Share-based payments 72 66 Cash generated from continuing operations 3,153 2,808 Interest paid 226 56 Interest received 59 40 Tax paid 543 490 Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 28 48 120 Net cash generated from operating activities 2,491 2,422 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of property, plant and equipment 286 176 Purchase of intangible assets 63 214 Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 35 7 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 11,817 158 Purchase of available for sale financial assets 36 Reduction in purchase of short-term investments 3 3 Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 28 3,232 3 Net cash used in investing activities 8,896 583 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 23 802 Treasury shares re-issued 23 94 79 Proceeds from borrowings 19,523 469 Repayment of borrowings 10,723 695 Dividends paid to owners of the parent 29 1,134 1,035 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 11 1 Other financing activities 12 219 Net cash generated from used in financing activities 7,737 1,766 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,332 73 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 873 737 Exchange losses gains 88 63 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 2,117 873 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and cash equivalents 15 2,125 882 Overdrafts 16 8 9 2,117 873 1.
Refer to Note 28 for further details.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 113 Strategic Report Notes to the Financial Statements Governance Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies other payments to customers.
During 2017, the Group completed a detailed review of the requirements of IFRS 15 against current The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these Financial Statements are set out below.
Unless otherwise stated, these accounting policies.
The areas the Group considered included policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
payments to customers, the timing of revenue recognition based on control of goods, principal and agent relationships and consignment Basis of Preparation inventories.
The Group has concluded that there will be no material These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with EU impact of adopting IFRS 15.
Taken together, the items above would endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS have reduced reported 2017 Net Revenue by less than 1%, most of Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations, and with those parts which is a reclassification of payments to customers recorded of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under elsewhere in the Income Statement.
The impact on profit would not IFRS.
The Financial Statements are also in compliance with IFRSs as issued have been material.
by the International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRS 9: Financial Instruments will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard includes These Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost requirements for classification and measurement, impairment and convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and hedge accounting.
The Group has evaluated the impact of IFRS 9 and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or concluded that it does not expect a material impact on the loss.
A summary of the Groups more important accounting policies is set recognition and measurement of income and costs in the Income out below.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the Statement or of assets and liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
The Group consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
has assessed the classification and measurement of certain financial assets on the Balance Sheet and concluded that whilst there will be Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to changes in classification, such as money market funds there is no transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants expected material impact on results.
Further, the nature of the at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly Groups current hedging activities and the quantum of its bad debt observable or estimated using another valuation technique.
In estimating risk means that the impact of IFRS 9 will be immaterial in respect of the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the these items.
IFRS 9 mandates certain additional disclosures, which the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take Group will make in the future.
those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the IFRS 16: Leases will be effective for annual periods beginning on or measurement date.
Fair value for measurement and or disclosure after 1 January 2019.
The standard changes the principles for the purposes in these consolidated Financial Statements is determined on recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases.
It such a basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS finance leases and introduces a single lessee accounting model where 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not the lessee is required to recognise lease liabilities and right of use fair value, such as net realisable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36. assets on the Balance Sheet, with exemptions for low value and short-term leases.
The Group is in the process of evaluating the The preparation of Financial Statements that conform to IFRSs requires impact of IFRS 16 on its current lease arrangements, which mainly management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported consists of office and warehouse properties.
amounts of assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date and revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are A number of other new standards, amendments and interpretations are based on managements best knowledge at the time, actual amounts effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and may ultimately differ from those estimates.
have not yet been applied in preparing these Financial Statements.
None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the Financial Adoption of New and Revised Standards Statements of the Group.
In September 2017, the IFRS Interpretations Committee clarified that finance expenses on income tax balances should be reported within Going Concern interest expense and certain penalties arising on settlements with tax Having assessed the principal risks and other matters discussed in authorities within administrative expenses.
The Group had previously connection with the Viability Statement, the Directors considered it reported finance expenses and penalties on income tax balances as part appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing of income tax expense.
With effect from 2017, the Group has updated its the consolidated Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in the treatment of these balances in accordance with this new guidance.
The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 51. impact of this change on the opening Balance Sheet and prior year Income Statement is not material and a restatement to the carrying Basis of Consolidation values at 31 December 2016 has not been made.
The impact on the The consolidated Financial Statements include the results of Reckitt Balance Sheet at 31 December 2017 inclusive of those tax liabilities Benckiser Group plc, a company registered in the UK, and all its assumed on the acquisition of Mead Johnson Nutrition MJN is a subsidiary undertakings made up to the same accounting date.
Subsidiary reclassification of 189 million from tax liabilities to other liabilities.
undertakings are those entities controlled by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Control exists where the Group is exposed to, or has the rights to variable The Group has applied amendments to IAS 7: Statement of Cash Flows.
returns from its involvement with, the investee and has the ability to use The impact has been to revise the disclosure of net debt to separately its power over the investee to affect its returns.
identify cash flows relating to financing liabilities Note 16.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions In these Financial Statements, the Group has not applied the following between Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: Unrealised losses have also been eliminated to the extent that they do not IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers will be effective for represent an impairment of a transferred asset.
Subsidiaries accounting annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard policies have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting the policies adopted by the Group.
useful information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows arising from the Groups contracts with its customers.
The standard provides clarification about when control of goods is passed to customers and contains more guidance about the measurement of revenue contracts which have discounts, rebates and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 114 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting Policies continued Revenue Revenue from the sale of products is recognised in the Income Statement Foreign Currency Translation Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups entities when the risks and rewards of ownership of the products are passed to are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in the customer.
which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Groups Net Revenue is defined as the amount invoiced to external customers presentational currency.
during the year and comprises gross sales net of trade spend, customer allowances for credit notes, returns and consumer coupons.
The Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency methodology and assumptions used to estimate credit notes, returns and using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign consumer coupons are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates projected market conditions.
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Income Statement, except where hedge accounting Trade spend, which consists primarily of customer pricing allowances, is applied.
placement listing fees and promotional allowances, are governed by sales agreements with our trade customers retailers and distributors.
"Trade The Financial Statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are spend also includes reimbursement arrangements under the Special translated into Sterling on the following basis: Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange ruling at the year ""WIC"", payable to the respective US State WIC agencies."
Profit and loss account items at the average rate of exchange for Accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements to reflect the year.
the expected activity level and our historical experience.
These accruals are reported within Trade and other payables.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments Net Revenue also includes royalty income arising from the licensed use of designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity on our brands recognised on an accruals basis.
Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from Net Revenue.
Business Combinations The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of Operating Segments subsidiaries.
Identifiable net assets acquired including intangibles in a Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets Executive Committee.
acquired is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values.
Final fair Adjusting items, including exceptional items values are determined within a year of the acquisition date and The Group has refined its accounting policy to make reference to retrospectively applied.
adjusting items in presenting its principal adjusted earnings measures.
The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any Adjusting items are significant items included in operating profit, net non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets finance expense or income tax expense, which are relevant to an including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is understanding of the underlying performance of the business.
comprise exceptional items, other adjusting items, and the reclassification of finance expenses on tax balances.
The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued if any, and liabilities assumed or Exceptional items are material, non-recurring items of expense or income incurred at the date of acquisition.
Examples of exceptional items include the following: Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Restructuring and other expenses relating to the integration of an acquired business and related expenses for reconfiguration of the The results of the subsidiaries acquired are included in the consolidated Groups activities: Financial Statements from the acquisition date.
Impairments of current and non-current assets: Gains losses on disposals of businesses: Disposal of Subsidiaries Acquisition-related costs, including advisor fees incurred for significant transactions, and adjustments to the fair values of assets and liabilities The financial performance of subsidiaries is included in the Group results up to the point the Group ceases to have control over that subsidiary.
Any that result in non-recurring charges to the income statement: Costs arising because of material and non-recurring regulatory and amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of litigation matters: and related assets and liabilities.
This may mean amounts previously recognised The income statement impact of unwinding fair value adjustments for in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
inventory recorded as the result of a business combination.
Non-Controlling Interests Other adjusting items are not classified as exceptional items because of their recurring nature.
They include the following: On an  basis the non-controlling interest is measured at either fair value or a proportionate share of the acquirees Amortisation of acquired brands, trademarks and similar assets: and net assets.
Amortisation of certain other intangible assets recorded as the result of a business combination.
Purchases from non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with the owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 115 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies continued economic life no more than 10 years, except when their life is determined as being indefinite.
Adjusting items now include a reclassification of finance expenses on tax balances into income tax, to align with previous guidance that focused on the pre-exceptional tax rate, and the way that the expenses are managed Applying indefinite lives to certain acquired brands is appropriate due to by the Group.
Therefore, these expenses are presented as part of income the stable long-term nature of the business and the enduring nature of tax in the adjusted profit before income tax measure.
A core element of the Groups strategy is to invest in building its brands through an ongoing programme of product innovation and The Group also presents an Adjusted Earnings Per Share calculation to increasing marketing investment.
Within the Group, a brand typically exclude the impact of adjusting items.
comprises an assortment of base products and more innovative products.
Both contribute to the enduring nature of the brand.
The base products Management believes that the use of adjusted measures such as Adjusted establish the long-term positioning of the brand while a succession of Operating Profit, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings Per Share innovations attracts ongoing consumer interest and attention.
Indefinite provides additional useful information about underlying trends to life brands are allocated to the CGUs to which they relate and are tested Shareholders.
Research and Development The Directors also review the useful economic life of brands annually, to Research expenditure is expensed in the year in which it is incurred.
ensure that these lives are still appropriate.
If a brand is considered to have a finite life, its carrying value is amortised over that period.
Development expenditure is expensed in the year in which it is incurred, unless it meets the requirements of IAS 38 to be capitalised and then iii Distribution Rights amortised over the useful life of the developed product.
Payments made in respect of product registration, acquired and re-acquired distribution rights are capitalised where the rights comply Income tax with the above requirements for recognition of acquired brands.
If the Income tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
registration or distribution rights are for a defined time period, the Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the extent intangible asset is amortised over that period.
If no time period is that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or defined, the intangible asset is treated in the same way as directly in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other acquired brands.
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
iv Software Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the Acquired computer software licences are capitalised at cost.
These costs year, using tax rates enacted in each jurisdiction, or substantively enacted, are amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of seven years for at the Balance Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect Enterprise Resource Planning systems and five years or less for all other of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary v Customer contracts differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their Acquired customer contracts are capitalised at cost.
These costs are carrying amounts in the consolidated Financial Statements.
Deferred tax amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the contract.
is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that affects Property, Plant and Equipment neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at that time.
Deferred tax is Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or depreciation and impairment, with the exception of freehold land, which substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date and are expected to is shown at cost less impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is apply when the deferred tax asset or liability is settled.
Deferred tax directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Except for freehold assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable land and assets under construction, the cost of property, plant and profit will be available against which the temporary differences can equipment is written off on a straight-line basis over the period of the be utilised.
expected useful life of the asset.
For this purpose, expected lives are determined within the following limits: Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments Freehold buildings: not more than 50 years: in subsidiaries except where the investor is able to control the timing of Leasehold land and buildings: the lesser of 50 years or the life of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary difference lease: and will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Owned plant and equipment: not more than 15 years except for environmental assets and spray dryers which are not more than 20 Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction are years.
offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and where there is an intention to In general, production plant and equipment and office equipment are settle these balances on a net basis.
written off over ten years or less: motor vehicles and computer equipment over five years or less.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets i Goodwill Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if Goodwill is allocated to the cash generating unit CGU, or group of necessary, at each Balance Sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment is CGUs, to which it relates and is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
that the carrying amount may not be appropriate.
Freehold land is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
ii Brands Separately acquired brands are shown at cost less accumulated Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are amortisation and impairment.
Brands acquired as part of a business determined by comparing the assets carrying value with any sale combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date, where proceeds, and are included in the Income Statement.
Brands are amortised over their useful Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 116 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting Policies continued Bank overdrafts are included within short-term borrowings in the Balance Sheet.
Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as Borrowings finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at lease Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less inception at the lower of the assets fair value and the present value of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the minimum lease payments.
Obligations related to finance leases, net interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the appropriate within borrowings.
The interest element of the finance cost is Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective charged to the Income Statement over the life of the lease so as to interest basis.
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Leased property, plant and equipment are Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activity depreciated on the same basis as owned plant and equipment or over the The Group may use derivatives to manage its exposures to fluctuating life of the lease, if shorter.
interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising ownership are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals net the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated of any related lease incentives are charged against profit on a straightas a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
line basis over the period of the lease.
Derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting are treated as a hedge of a Impairment of Assets highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
Assets that have indefinite lives, including goodwill, are tested annually for impairment at the level where cash flows are considered to be largely At inception, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the independent.
This is at either a CGU level, or as a group of CGUs.
All hedged item is documented, as is an assessment of the effectiveness of assets are tested for impairment if there is an event or circumstance that the derivative instrument used in the hedging transaction in offsetting indicates that their carrying value may not be recoverable.
If an assets changes in the cash flow of the hedged item.
This effectiveness carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount an impairment loss is assessment is repeated on an ongoing basis during the life of the hedging recognised in the Income Statement.
The recoverable amount is the instrument to ensure that the instrument remains an effective hedge of higher of the assets fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
Derivatives classified as cash flow hedges: the effective portion of Value in use is calculated with reference to the future cash flows changes in the fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income.
expected to be generated by an asset or group of assets where cash Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised flows are not identifiable to specific assets.
The pre-tax discount rate immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts recognised in other used in asset impairment reviews is based on a weighted average cost of comprehensive income are recycled to the Income Statement in the capital for comparable companies operating in similar markets and period when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
If the hedging geographies as the Group including, where appropriate, an adjustment instrument expires or is sold, or no longer meets the criteria for hedge for the specific risks associated with the relevant CGU.
accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in other comprehensive income at that time remains in other comprehensive Fair value less costs of disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow income, and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to projected risk-adjusted recognised in the Income Statement.
If the forecast transaction is no post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the Income Inventories Statement.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: these are comprises materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of classified at fair value through profit or loss.
All changes in fair value overhead expenses based on normal operating capacity required to get of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are the inventory to its present location and condition.
Inventory valuation is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
determined on a first in, first out FIFO basis.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less applicable selling expenses.
Net Investment Hedges Gains and losses on those hedging instruments designated as hedges of Trade Receivables the net investments in foreign operations are recognised in other Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently comprehensive income to the extent that the hedging relationship is held at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
If there is objective effective.
Gains and losses accumulated in the foreign currency evidence that the Group will not be able to collect the full amount of the translation reserve are recycled to the Income Statement when the receivable, an impairment is recognised through the Income Statement.
foreign operation is disposed of.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that a debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency Employee Share Schemes in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share impaired.
The impairment is calculated as the difference between the option and restricted share schemes vested in accordance with noncarrying value of the receivable and the present value of the related market conditions.
estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original interest rate.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled Cash and Cash Equivalents share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and other deposits vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that with a maturity of less than three months when deposited.
At each Balance Sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
The For the purpose of the cash flow statement, bank overdrafts that form an impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in integral part of the Groups cash management, and are repayable on profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised demand, are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 117 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1 Accounting Policies continued Dividend payments are recorded at fair value.
Where non-cash dividend payments are made, gains arising as a result of fair value remeasurements Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged, including social security taxes, to the Income Statement over the same are recognised in profit or loss in the same period.
period with a corresponding liability recognised.
Accounting Estimates and Judgements The proceeds received from the exercise of share options, net of any In the application of the Groups accounting policies the Directors are directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and required to make a number of estimates and assumptions about the share premium when the options are exercised.
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based Pension Commitments on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be Group companies operate defined contribution and funded and relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
unfunded defined benefit pension plans.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing The cost of providing pensions to employees who are members of basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in defined contribution plans is charged to the Income Statement as which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in contributions are made.
The Group has no further payment obligations the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both once the contributions have been paid.
The deficit or surplus recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit The following are the critical judgements, that the Directors have made in obligation at the Balance Sheet date, less the fair value of the plan assets.
the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, that have the The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Groups actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the Financial Statements.
defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated The Group has identified matters which may incur liabilities in the future cash flows by the yield on high quality corporate bonds future, but do not recognise these where it is too early to determine denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that the likely outcome or make a reliable estimate Note 19. have a maturity approximating to the terms of the pension obligations.
The continuing enduring nature of the Groups brands supports the The costs of providing these defined benefit plans are accrued over the indefinite life assumption of these assets Note 9. period of employment.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised Assumptions are made as to the recoverability of tax assets especially immediately in other comprehensive income.
as to whether there will be sufficient future taxable profits in the same jurisdictions to fully utilise losses in future years Note 11.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The net interest amount is calculated by applying the discounted rate The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date, that may have a period to the net defined benefit liability asset.
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below: The net pension plan interest is presented as finance income expense.
The actual tax paid on profits is determined based on tax laws and regulations that differ across the numerous jurisdictions in which the Post-Retirement Benefits Other than Pensions Group operates.
Assumptions are made in applying these laws to the Some Group companies provide post-retirement medical care to their taxable profits in any given period in order to calculate the tax charge retirees.
The costs of providing these benefits are accrued over the period for that period.
Where the eventual tax paid or reclaimed is different of employment and the liability recognised in the Balance Sheet is to the amounts originally estimated, the difference will be charged or calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its credited to the Income Statement in the period in which it is present value and the fair value of any related asset is deducted.
The Group is subject to tax audits and uncertainties in a number of Provisions jurisdictions.
The issues involved can be complex and disputes may Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or take a number of years to resolve.
Each uncertainty is separately constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not assessed and the provision recognised depends on the specific context that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation: and of each case.
The accounting estimates and judgements the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are valued at the present considered include: value of the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle Status of the unresolved matter: the obligation at the Balance Sheet date.
Strength of technical argument and clarity of legislation: External advice: Share Capital Transactions Resolution process, past experience and precedents set with the When the Group purchases equity share capital, the amount of the particular taxing authority: consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a Agreements previously reached in other jurisdictions on change in equity.
Purchased shares are either held in Treasury, in order to comparable issues: and satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to maintain capital, Statute of limitations.
an equivalent amount to the nominal value of the shares cancelled would be transferred from retained earnings to the capital redemption reserve.
Management is of the opinion that the carrying values of the provisions made in respect of these matters represent the most Dividend Distribution accurate measurement once all facts and circumstances have been Dividends to owners of the parent are recognised as a liability in the taken into account.
Nevertheless, the final amounts paid to discharge period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys the liabilities arising either through negotiated settlement or Shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they litigation will in all likelihood be different from the provision are approved and paid.
The net liabilities are included in amounts disclosed in Note 21.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 118 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting Policies continued The Group recognises legal and regulatory provisions in line with the Groups provisions policy.
The level of provisioning for regulatory civil and or criminal investigation is an issue where management and legal judgement is important Note 17.
These are valued based on the Directors best estimates taking into account all available information, external advice and historical experience.
Estimates of future business performance and cash generation, discount rates and long-term growth rates supporting the net book amount of indefinite life intangible assets at the Balance Sheet date Note 9.
If the actual results should differ, or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely impact operating results.
Measurement of intangible assets both in business combinations and other asset acquisitions requires the Group to value such assets.
Assumptions and estimates are made about future cash flows and appropriate discount rates to value identified intangible assets Note 27.
The Group provides for amounts payable to our trade customers for promotional activity and Government reimbursement arrangements.
Where an activity spans across the year end, an accrual is reflected in the consolidated Financial Statements based on our estimation of customer and consumer uptake during the relevant period and the extent to which temporary funded activity has occurred.
Details of trade spend accrued as at year end are provided in Note 20.
The value of the Groups defined benefit pension plan obligations are dependent on a number of key assumptions.
These include assumptions over the rate of increase in pensionable salaries, the discount rate to be applied, the level of inflation and the life expectancy of the schemes members.
Details of the key assumptions and the sensitivity of the principal schemes' carrying value to changes in the assumptions are set out in Note 22.
2 Operating Segments The Executive Committee is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The Groups operating segments are reported based on the segmental information reviewed by the Executive Committee for the purposes of making strategic decisions and assessing performance.
As a result of the acquisition of MJN, the Group has created a new operating segment, Infant and Child Nutrition IFCN.
In addition, because of its classification as a discontinued operation, the previously reported operating segment for Food is no longer presented and the comparatives have been restated.
The Groups geographical segments comprise ENA and DvM.
ENA comprises Europe, Russia CIS, Israel, North America, Australia and New Zealand.
DvM principally comprises North Africa, Middle East excluding Israel and Turkey, Africa, South Asia, North Asia, Latin America, Japan, South Korea and ASEAN.
ENA and DvM derive their revenue primarily from the sale of branded products in the Health, Hygiene and Home categories.
IFCN forms part of the Health category.
The Executive Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on Net Revenue from external customers and Adjusted Operating Profit.
Intercompany transactions between operating segments are eliminated.
Finance income and expense are not allocated to segments, as they are managed on a central Group basis.
The segment information provided to the Executive Committee for the operating segments for the year ended 31 December is as follows: ENA DvM IFCN Total Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m Net Revenue 6,691 3,266 1,555 11,512 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 109 63 51 223 Adjusted Operating Profit 2,040 753 329 3,122 Adjusting items 385 Operating Profit 2,737 Net finance expense 238 Profit before income tax 2,499 ENA DvM IFCN Total Year ended 31 December 2016 restated m m m m Net Revenue 6,410 3,070 9,480 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 117 60 177 Adjusted Operating Profit 1,978 681 2,659 Reallocation of central costs 16 7 23 1 Adjusted operating profit 1,962 674 2,636 Adjusting items 367 Operating Profit 2,269 Net finance expense 16 Profit before income tax 2,253 1.
Restated for reallocation of centrally incurred costs following the disposal of RB Food.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 119 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2 Operating Segments continued The Executive Committee reviews Net Working Capital by segment and other assets and liabilities on a Group basis.
The split of assets and liabilities by segment provided to the Executive Committee is shown below.
Assets and liabilities not presented to the Executive Committee are shown below as a reconciling item.
Restated to exclude RB Food from operating segments.
RB Food is a discontinued operation Note 28.
The assets and liabilities are reported based upon the operations of the segment and the physical location of the asset or liability.
There are a number of Group assets and liabilities that are not specifically attributable to one segment.
Reconciliation of these assets and liabilities to total assets or liabilities in the Balance Sheet is shown below: 1 Restated 2017 2016 m m Inventories for operating segments 1,234 788 Unallocated: RB Food 24 Group adjustments 33 42 Total inventories per the Balance Sheet 1,201 770 Trade and other receivables for operating segments 1,976 1,554 Unallocated: RB Food 48 Group items 28 21 Total trade and other receivables per the Balance Sheet 2,004 1,623 Total inventories and trade and other receivables per the Balance Sheet 3,205 2,393 Other unallocated assets 33,808 15,626 Total assets per the Balance Sheet 37,013 18,019 Trade and other payables for operating segments 4,342 3,168 Unallocated: RB Food 78 Group items 287 249 Total trade and other payables per the Balance Sheet 4,629 3,495 Other unallocated liabilities 18,811 6,098 Total liabilities per the Balance Sheet 23,440 9,593 1.
Group adjustments to inventory predominantly relate to the elimination of intercompany profit in inventory.
Unallocated assets include goodwill and intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, deferred and current tax, available for sale assets, retirement benefit surplus, other receivables, derivative financial assets, cash and cash equivalents, and assets classified as held for sale.
Unallocated liabilities include borrowings, derivative financial liabilities, provisions for liabilities and charges, current and deferred tax liabilities, other liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 120 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Operating Segments continued The Company is domiciled in the UK.
The split of Net Revenue from external customers and Non-Current Assets other than available for sale financial assets, deferred tax assets and retirement benefit surplus assets between the UK, the US and China US and China being the two biggest countries outside the country of domicile and that from all other countries is: Greater All other 1 UK US China countries Total 2017 m m m m m Net Revenue 716 2,817 818 7,161 11,512 Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,937 10,470 8,164 8,916 29,487 Property, plant and equipment 207 461 49 1,037 1,754 Other non-current receivables 15 61 1 22 99 All other UK US countries Total 2016 m m m m 2 Net Revenue 739 2,279 6,462 9,480 Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,927 5,624 5,903 13,454 Property, plant and equipment 154 183 541 878 Other non-current receivables 12 53 16 81 1.
Greater China represents Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Following the acquisition of MJN, Greater China has become the second largest country in the Group, and is therefore disclosed separately.
The Net Revenue from external customers reported on a geographical basis above is measured consistently with that in the operating segments.
Major customers are typically large grocery chains, mass markets and multiple retailers.
The Groups customer base is diverse with only one customer 2016: none accounting for more than 10% of Net Revenue.
Analysis of Categories The primary analysis within the information provided to the Executive Committee is based on the geographical areas above.
An analysis of Net Revenue by category is given below.
Portfolio Brands is restated following the disposal of RB Food.
3 Analysis of Net Operating Expenses 1 Restated 2017 2016 m m Distribution costs 2,995 2,385 Administrative expenses: Research and development 187 149 Other 728 636 Total administrative expenses 915 785 Other net operating income 3 5 Adjusting items included in net operating expenses 226 367 Net operating expenses 4,133 3,532 1.
A net foreign exchange loss of 20 million 2016: 9 million loss, excluding RB Food has been recognised through the Income Statement.
Adjusting Items The Group uses certain adjusted earnings measures, including Adjusted Operating Profit and Adjusted Net Income, to provide additional clarity about the underlying performance of the business.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 121 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3 Analysis of Net Operating Expenses continued The Group has refined its accounting policy to make reference to adjusting items in presenting the Group's principal adjusted earnings measures.
Adjusting items are significant items included in operating profit, net finance expense or income tax expense, which are relevant to an understanding of the underlying performance of the business.
These comprise exceptional items, other adjusting items, and the reclassification of finance expenses on tax balances: Exceptional items, which remain as previously defined, are material, non-recurring items of expense or income incurred during a year.
Other adjusting items comprise the amortisation of certain fair value adjustments recorded in respect of finite-life intangible assets recognised in the provisional purchase price allocation for the acquisition of MJN refer to Note 27.
These are not classified as exceptional items because of their recurring nature.
As explained in Note 1, the Group has changed its treatment of finance expenses on income tax balances.
These were previously treated as income tax but are now presented as finance expenses.
There was no material impact resulting from the change in accounting for penalties.
Adjusting items now include a reclassification of finance expenses on tax balances into income tax, to align with previous guidance that focused on the pre-exceptional tax rate, and with the way the expenses are managed by the Group.
Therefore, these expenses are presented as part of income tax in the adjusted profit before income tax measure.
The table below provides a reconciliation of the Group's reported statutory earnings measures to its adjusted measures for the year ended 31 December 2017: Adjusting: Adjusting: Adjusting: Finance Exceptional Other expense Reported items items reclassification Adjusted Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m 1 5 Operating Profit 2,737 342 43 3,122 2 6 Net finance expense 238 35 30 173 Profit before income tax 2,499 377 43 30 2,949 3 5 6 Income tax expense 894 1,527 16 30 679 Net income for the year from continuing operations 3,393 1,150 27 2,270 Less: Attributable to non-controlling interests 17 17 Net income for the year attributable to owners of the parent continuing 3,376 1,150 27 2,253 4 Net income for the year from discontinued operations 2,796 2,741 55 Total net income for the year attributable to owners of the parent 6,172 3,891 27 2,308 1.
Exceptional items within Operating Profit of 342 million include 219 million relating to the acquisition of MJN, which comprise the following: transaction fees of 60 million unwinding of fair value adjustment made to inventories recorded on the purchase price allocation of 159 million, recorded in cost of sales in the Group Income Statement.
The remaining exceptional costs within operating profit relate to previously announced restructuring projects, including: MJN integration RB 2.0 of 90 million Restructuring and other projects of 33 million.
Exceptional costs included within net finance expense comprises 23 million for the accelerated write-off of facility fees as a result of the acquisition of MJN in June 2017, when short-term bridge facilities were replaced with the issuance of $7,750 million of fixed and floating rate loan notes, and 12 million for the accelerated write-off of facility fees as a result of the early repayment of certain term loans using the proceeds from the disposal of RB Food.
Included within income tax credit is a 1,421 million tax credit resulting from the US Tax Reform and 106 million, representing the tax credit for the exceptional costs noted above.
"Adjusting items included in discontinued operations comprise the gain on the disposal of RB Food of 3,024 million, a tax credit of 13 million on this gain, and a charge of 296 million in respect of provision for settlement of the ongoing investigations by the US Department of Justice ""DoJ arising from certain matters relating to the RB Pharmaceuticals business prior to its demerger in December 2014."
Other adjusting items of 43 million relate to the amortisation of certain intangible assets recognised as a result of the acquisition of MJN, charged over the period since the acquisition up to 31 December 2017.
In addition, there is a 16 million income tax credit in respect of these costs.
Adjusting items of 30 million relate to the reclassification of interest on income tax balances from finance expense to income tax in the adjusting measure Note 1.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 122 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3 Analysis of Net Operating Expenses continued The table below provides a reconciliation of the Groups reported statutory earnings measures to its adjusted measures for the year ended 31 December 2016: Adjusting: Exceptional Reported items Adjusted Year ended 31 December 2016 m m m 1 Operating Profit 2,269 367 2,636 Net finance expense 16 16 Profit before income tax 2,253 367 2,620 2 Income tax expense 520 42 562 Net income for the year from continuing operations 1,733 325 2,058 Less: Attributable to non-controlling interests 4 4 Net income for the year attributable to owners of the parent continuing 1,729 325 2,054 Net income for the year from discontinued operations 103 103 Total net income for the year attributable to owners of the parent 1,832 325 2,157 1.
Exceptional items in the year ended 31 December 2016 comprised 300 million of costs related to the HS issue in South Korea primarily compensation for Rounds 1, 2 and 3, commitments to the Humanitarian Fund, and legal costs directly linked to this issue and 67 million related to restructuring and integration costs.
Included within income tax expense is a 42 million tax credit on the exceptional items.
4 Auditors Remuneration During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys Auditors and its associates.
2017 2016 m m Audit services pursuant to legislation Audit of the Groups Annual Report and Financial Statements 2.3 2.0 Audit of the Financial Statements of the Groups subsidiaries 4.3 3.9 Audit related assurance services 1.3 0.2 Total audit and audit-related services 7.9 6.1 Fees payable to the Companys Auditors and its associates for other services: Corporate finance services 2.7 Taxation compliance services 0.4 0.2 Taxation advisory services 0.3 1.0 Other assurance services 0.8 0.1 Total non-audit services 4.2 1.3 12.1 7.4 5 Employees Staff Costs 2017 2016 Note m m The total employment costs, including Directors, were: Wages and salaries 1,252 969 Social security costs 204 179 Other pension costs 22 63 8 Share-based payments 24 78 66 1,597 1,222 Included within staff costs is 26 million 2016: 39 million incurred in respect of RB Food.
These amounts are included within Net Income from discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement.
Executive Directors' aggregate emoluments were 2,046,510 2016: 2,356,574.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 123 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5 Employees continued Compensation awarded to key management the Executive Committee was: 2017 2016 m m Short-term employee benefits 7 7 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 26 29 Termination benefits 1 35 37 Termination benefits and share-based payments include contractual commitments made to key management in 2017, comprising cash payments and share awards.
Staff Numbers The monthly average number of people employed by the Group, including Directors, during the year was: 2017 2016 000 000 Continuing operations ENA 14.5 14.2 DvM 20.4 18.8 IFCN 3.9 Other 1.3 1.2 40.1 34.2 Discontinued operations RB Food 0.3 0.5 40.4 34.7 6 Net Finance Expense 2017 2016 m m Finance income Interest income on cash and cash equivalents 60 42 Total finance income 60 42 Finance expense Interest payable on borrowings 205 47 Net pension plan interest 9 6 1 Amortisation of issue costs of bank loans 42 4 Finance expense on tax balances 30 Other finance expense 12 1 Total finance expense 298 58 Net finance expense 238 16 1.
Amortisation of issue costs of bank loans includes accelerated write off of facility fees in relation to the acquisition of MJN and the disposal of RB Food, which have been treated as exceptional items Note 3.
All net finance expense relates to continuing operations only.
7 Income Tax Benefit Expense 1 Restated 2017 2016 m m Current tax 760 492 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 52 16 Total current tax 708 508 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 38 48 Impact of changes in tax rates 1,564 36 Total deferred tax 1,602 12 Income tax benefit expense 894 520 1.
Included in the income tax benefit of 894 million is an exceptional tax credit relating to the effect of US tax reform of 1,421 million Note 3.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 124 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7 Income Tax Benefit Expense continued Current tax includes tax incurred by UK entities of 53 million 2016: 81 million.
This is comprised of UK corporation tax of 25 million 2016: 61 million and overseas tax suffered of 28 million 2016: 20 million.
UK current tax is calculated at 19.25% 2016: 20% of the estimated assessable profit for the year, net of relief for overseas taxes where available.
Taxation in other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
The variance between the current year tax charge of 760 million and cash tax paid of 543 million is attributable to movements on non-current tax liabilities shown in Note 21 and including US transition tax referenced in the Financial Review on page 36 and other timing differences arising between accrual and payment of income tax liabilities.
The deferred tax impact of changes in tax rates of 1,564 million 2016: 36 million primarily relates to the enactment of a reduction in the US federal corporation rate from 35% to 21%, applicable from 1 January 2018.
This results in a reduction in closing deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Original income and reversal of temporary differences includes adjustments in respect of prior periods of 23 million income 2016: 12 million expense.
The total tax charge on the Groups profits for the year can be reconciled to the notional tax charge calculated at the UK tax rate as follows: 1 Restated 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Profit before income tax 2,499 2,253 Tax at the notional UK corporation tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20% 481 451 Effect of: Overseas tax rates 66 51 Movement in provision related to uncertain tax positions 122 31 Unrecognised tax losses and other unrecognised tax assets 17 54 Withholding and local taxes 29 22 US tax reform transition tax and cost of repatriation 208 Reassessment of prior year estimates 75 28 Impact of changes in tax rates 1,564 36 Adjusting items 11 9 Other permanent differences 1 12 Income tax benefit expense 894 520 1.
The effect of overseas tax rates represents the impact of profits arising outside the UK that are taxed at different rates to the UK rate.
Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of tax contingencies Note 21 are shown in the movement in provision related to uncertain tax positions.
The unrecognised tax loss arising in 2016 predominantly relates to the tax value of losses arising in South Korea from the HS issue, for which recovery is not anticipated in the foreseeable future.
Reassessment of prior year estimates arose as a result of revised tax filings and differences between final tax return submissions and liabilities accrued in these Financial Statements.
We conduct business operations in a number of countries, and are therefore subject to tax and intercompany pricing laws in multiple jurisdictions, including those relating to the flow of funds between RB and its subsidiaries.
Our effective tax rate in any given financial year reflects a variety of factors that may not be present in succeeding financial years, and may be affected by variations in profit mix, challenges brought by tax authorities, changes in tax laws, regulations and related interpretations, including those arising as a result of the OECDs base erosion and profit shifting project and from the EUs investigations into potential breach of state aid rules in respect of tax rulings.
In particular, on 24 November 2017, the European Commission published an opening decision asserting that the United Kingdom controlled foreign company group financing exemption constitutes state aid.
The Group may be impacted by this, but no final decision has yet been published by the EU and management believes that no provision is currently required.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 125 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 7 Income Tax Benefit Expense continued The tax charge credit relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2017 2016 Tax charge Before tax credit After tax Before tax Tax credit After tax m m m m m m Net exchange losses gains on foreign currency translation 310 310 1,618 1,618 Gains losses on cash flow and net investment hedges 55 8 47 158 8 150 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on disposal of foreign operations 145 145 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans Note 22 34 22 12 176 38 138 Revaluation of available for sale financial assets 6 6 2 2 Other comprehensive income 70 30 100 1,282 46 1,328 Current tax 1 10 Deferred tax Note 11 31 36 30 46 The tax credited charged directly to the Statement of Changes in Equity during the year is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Current tax 20 14 Deferred tax Note 11 14 4 6 10 8 Earnings per Share 1 Restated 2017 2016 pence pence Basic earnings per share From continuing operations 480.6 245.6 From discontinued operations 398.1 14.6 Total basic earnings per share 878.7 260.2 Diluted earnings per share From continuing operations 474.7 242.1 From discontinued operations 393.2 14.4 Total diluted earnings per share 867.9 256.5 Adjusted basic earnings per share From continuing operations 320.8 291.7 From discontinued operations 7.8 14.6 Total adjusted basic earnings per share 328.6 306.3 Adjusted diluted earnings per share From continuing operations 316.9 287.6 From discontinued operations 7.7 14.4 Total adjusted diluted earnings per share 324.6 302.0 1.
Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing operations 2017: 3,376 million: 2016: 1,729 million and discontinued operations 2017: 2,796 million: 2016: 103 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 2017: 702,379,197: 2016: 704,164,106.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
The Company has the following categories of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: Executive Share Awards including Executive Share Options and Executive Restricted Share Scheme Awards and Employee Sharesave Scheme Options.
The options only dilute earnings when they result in the issue of shares at a value below the market price of the share and when all performance criteria if applicable have been met.
As at 31 December 2017 there were 69,200 2016: nil Executive Share Awards excluded from the dilution because the exercise price for the options was greater than the average share price for the year.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 126 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8 Earnings per Share continued 2017 2016 Average Average number of number of shares shares On a basic basis 702,379,197 704,164,106 Dilution for Executive Share Awards 8,054,213 9,405,777 Dilution for Employee Sharesave Scheme Options outstanding 691,174 730,750 On a diluted basis 711,124,584 714,300,633 Adjusted earnings Details of the adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent are as follows: 1 Restated 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Net income attributable to owners of the parent 3,376 1,729 Exceptional items, net of tax Note 3 1,150 325 Other Adjusting items, net of tax Note 3 27 Adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent 2,253 2,054 1.
2017 2016 Discontinued operations m m Net income attributable to owners of the parent 2,796 103 Exceptional items, net of tax Note 3 2,741 Adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent 55 103 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Brands Goodwill Software Other Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 7,969 3,303 121 107 11,500 Additions 359 25 384 Arising on business combinations 24 148 172 Disposals 12 44 56 Exchange adjustments 1,197 491 3 2 1,693 At 31 December 2016 9,549 3,942 137 65 13,693 Additions 63 63 Arising on business combinations 9,043 8,020 19 107 17,189 Disposals 52 2 54 Exchange adjustments 652 443 2 7 1,104 At 31 December 2017 17,888 11,519 215 165 29,787 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2016 92 21 37 54 204 Amortisation and impairment charge 59 14 6 79 Disposals 12 41 53 Exchange adjustments 5 1 2 1 9 At 31 December 2016 156 22 41 20 239 Amortisation and impairment charge 35 23 12 70 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 3 4 1 8 At 31 December 2017 188 18 63 31 300 Net book value At 31 December 2016 9,393 3,920 96 45 13,454 At 31 December 2017 17,700 11,501 152 134 29,487 The amount stated for brands represents the fair value of brands acquired since 1985 at the date of acquisition.
Other includes product registration, distribution rights, capitalised product development costs and customer contracts.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 127 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued Software includes intangible assets under construction of 54 million 2016: 26 million.
The majority of brands, all of goodwill and certain other intangibles are considered to have indefinite lives for the reasons noted in the Accounting Policies and therefore are subject to an annual impairment review.
The MJN global brand and a number of small non-core brands are deemed to have a finite life and are amortised accordingly.
In 2016, the Group exercised its option to acquire the legal title to intellectual property associated with the collaboration agreement with Bristol Myers Squibb BMS, as described in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013.
The amount capitalised reflects a cash payment of 189 million and a prepayment made in 2013 of 170 million at 2016 exchange rates.
Goodwill and brands arising on business combinations during the year primarily relate to the MJN acquisition discussed in Note 27.
The net book amounts of indefinite and finite life intangible assets are as follows: 2017 2016 Net book amount m m Indefinite life assets: Brands 17,153 9,383 Goodwill 11,501 3,920 Other 45 45 Total indefinite life assets 28,699 13,348 Finite life assets: Brands 547 10 Software 152 96 Other 89 Total finite life assets 788 106 Total net book amount of intangible assets 29,487 13,454 Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are allocated to either individual cash generating units CGUs, or groups of cash generating units together GCGUs.
The goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at the level at which identifiable cash inflows are largely independent.
Generally this is at a GCGU level, but for certain intangible assets this is at a CGU level.
Cash Generating Units After considering all the evidence available, including how brand and production assets generate cash inflows and how management monitors the business, the Directors have concluded that for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets, the Groups GCGUs are as follows: Health, Hygiene, Home and IFCN.
An analysis of the net book value of indefinite life assets and goodwill by GCGU is shown below: 2017 2016 Indefinite Indefinite life assets Goodwill Total life assets Goodwill Total GCGU Powerbrands m m m m m m 1 Health Durex, Gaviscon, Mucinex, Nurofen, Scholl, Strepsils 6,946 3,567 10,513 7,182 3,713 10,895 Hygiene Bang, Clearasil, Dettol, Finish, Harpic, Lysol, Mortein, Veet 1,305 159 1,464 1,371 162 1,533 Home Air Wick, Calgon, Vanish, Woolite 809 45 854 835 45 880 IFCN Enfamil, Nutramigen 8,138 7,730 15,868 2 Food Frenchs 40 40 17,198 11,501 28,699 9,428 3,920 13,348 1 Within the Health GCGU, the cash flows in relation to certain groups of brands are separately identifiable.
As a result, the carrying value of these brand-related intangible assets, in conjunction with associated property, plant and equipment, have been tested for impairment as CGUs.
This is in addition to the impairment testing over goodwill and indefinite life assets for the wider GCGU.
The CGUs tested separately are shown below, all of which fall under the Health GCGU in the above table.
2 The Food GCGU was disposed of during 2017.
2017 2016 Carrying Value of CGU m m Sexual Wellbeing 2,201 2,124 Brazillian Sexual Wellbeing 47 Oriental Pharma 142 127 BMS 396 355 VMS 1,003 914 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 128 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued Annual Impairment Review The annual impairment review of goodwill and indefinite life assets is based on an assessment of each GCGUs or CGUs recoverable amount, being the higher of value in use or fair value less costs of disposal.
Both valuation models are calculated from cash flow projections, based on historical operating results, short-term budgets and medium-term business plans, which have each been approved by management and cover a five-year period.
These projections exclude any estimated future cash inflows or outflows expected to arise from restructuring not yet implemented.
The recoverable amount calculation is based on the following key assumptions used in the cash flow projections: Net Revenue growth based upon forecast future sales volumes and prices, which take account of the expected impact from committed new product initiatives, geographical expansion and the maturity of the markets in which each GCGU or CGU operates: Gross Margin based on historical experience adjusted for the impact of forecast production costs, cost optimisation initiatives and changes in product mix: and Marketing and other expenditure, reflecting historical experience, expected levels of cost inflation, committed cost saving initiatives and future levels of marketing support required to sustain, grow and further innovate brands.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using the estimated long-term growth rates stated below.
The long-term growth rates applied do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the products and markets in which the GCGU or CGU operates.
Management has assessed the appropriate discount rate for each individual GCGU and CGU.
This has been done using a Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC for comparable companies operating in similar markets and geographies as the Group, adjusted for risks specific to each GCGU and CGU.
Due to the wide geographic and product diversification of their respective markets, and the diverse risks associated with a number of GCGUs and CGUs, a pre-tax discount rate of 10% was determined for each of the Health, Hygiene and Home GCGUs as well as the Sexual Wellbeing CGU 2016: 10%.
The IFCN recoverable amount was calculated on a fair value less costs of disposal basis and a post-tax discount rate of 8% was determined for IFCN based on the geographic spread and product portfolio.
The fair value measurement of IFCN is categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
The VMS and Oriental Pharma CGUs are predominantly concentrated in single markets, being the US and China respectively.
BMS is predominantly concentrated in the Mexican and Brazilian markets.
A pre-tax discount rate of 13% was therefore applied to VMS 2016: 13%, 12% 2016: 12% was applied to Oriental Pharma and 13% was applied to BMS and Brazilian Sexual Wellbeing, to reflect the risks specific to these businesses.
2017 2016 Terminal Terminal growth Discount growth Discount GCGU CGU rate % rate % rate % rate % Health 4 10 4 10 Hygiene 2 10 2 10 Home 1 10 1 10 IFCN 3 8 Oriental Pharma 4 12 4 12 Sexual Wellbeing 4 10 4 10 Brazilian Sexual Wellbeing 4 13 BMS 4 13 4 13 VMS 2 13 2 13 Following the Groups annual impairment review, no impairments have been identified.
Any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amounts of the Health, Hygiene, Home and IFCN GCGUs, and the Sexual Wellbeing, Brazilian Sexual Wellbeing and VMS CGUs, are based would not imply possible impairments.
With a value in use exceeding its carrying value by 97 million 24%, the BMS CGU is sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
The sensitivity of the recoverable amount has been assessed to identify the impact of reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
If all other assumptions were held constant, a reduction in assumed growth rates in the first five years by 20% of those forecast would lead to a reduction in the value in use of this CGU of 62 million.
In addition, a reduction of 100 bps in the terminal growth rate would result in a reduction in the value in use of 38 million.
Applying these sensitivities together would result in the value in use of this CGU exceeding its carrying value by 2 million.
Management considers the likelihood of all sensitivities occurring together to be remote.
The value in use of the Oriental Pharma CGU exceeds its carrying value by 20 million 14%, and as such is also sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
If all other assumptions were held constant, a reduction in assumed growth rates in the first five years by 20% of that forecast would lead to a reduction in the value in use of this CGU of 20 million.
In addition, a reduction of 100 bps in the terminal growth rate would result in a reduction in the value in use of 15 million.
Applying these sensitivities together would result in an impairment of 13 million.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 129 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 10 Property, Plant and Equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 558 1,166 1,724 Additions 6 173 179 Arising on business combinations 30 8 38 Disposals 14 50 64 Reclassifications 16 16 Exchange adjustments 80 154 234 At 31 December 2016 676 1,435 2,111 Additions 42 247 289 Arising on business combinations 399 521 920 Disposals 42 173 215 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 30 5 35 Reclassifications 50 50 Exchange adjustments 33 43 76 At 31 December 2017 1,062 1,932 2,994 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2016 210 784 994 Charge for the year 32 116 148 Disposals 12 47 59 Impairment losses 11 10 21 Exchange adjustments 29 100 129 At 31 December 2016 270 963 1,233 Charge for the year 48 150 198 Disposals 24 150 174 Impairment losses 3 3 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 14 4 18 Exchange adjustments 1 1 2 At 31 December 2017 282 958 1,240 Net book value As at 31 December 2016 406 472 878 As at 31 December 2017 780 974 1,754 The net book amount of assets under construction is 236 million 2016: 109 million.
Assets under construction are included within plant and equipment and are not depreciated.
The reclassification from plant and equipment to land and buildings of 50 million 2016: 16 million shows the transfer of completed assets.
Impairment losses of nil 2016: 9 million have been charged to exceptional items Note 3.
Capital expenditure which was contracted but not capitalised at 31 December 2017 was 90 million 2016: 103 million.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 130 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11 Deferred Tax Accelerated Short-term Retirement capital Intangible temporary benefit allowances assets differences Tax losses obligations Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 9 32 88 16 81 Charged credited to the Income Statement 2 6 7 2 5 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 1 1 5 5 Arising on business combinations 3 2 37 7 4 53 Exchange differences 1 1 5 1 6 At 31 December 2017 10 24 108 4 20 118 Accelerated Short-term Retirement capital Intangible temporary benefit allowances assets differences Tax losses obligations Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 14 2,303 261 8 65 1,983 Credited charged to the Income Statement 15 1,670 68 2 13 1,602 Charged to other comprehensive income 26 26 Charged directly to equity 14 14 Arising on business combinations 48 3,399 175 2 23 3,247 Divestment of discontinued operations 3 17 6 14 Exchange differences 5 228 16 1 5 211 At 31 December 2017 39 3,787 338 7 38 3,443 Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
Certain deferred tax assets in respect of corporation tax losses and other gross temporary differences totalling 1,139 million 2016: 326 million have not been recognised at 31 December 2017 as the likelihood of future economic benefit is not sufficiently assured.
These assets will be recognised if utilisation of the losses and other temporary differences becomes sufficiently probable.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future based on the current repatriation policy of the Group.
12 Inventories 2017 2016 m m Raw materials and consumables 269 168 Work in progress 120 29 Finished goods and goods held for resale 812 573 Total inventories 1,201 770 The total cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 4,426 million 2016: 3,497 million, restated to exclude RB Food.
This includes inventory write-offs and losses of 73 million 2016: 91 million, restated to exclude RB Food.
The Group inventory provision at 31 December 2017 was 95 million 2016: 84 million.
13 Trade and Other Receivables 2017 2016 Amounts falling due within one year m m Trade receivables 1,778 1,501 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 55 45 Trade receivables net 1,723 1,456 Other receivables 215 127 Prepayments and accrued income 66 40 2,004 1,623 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 131 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 13 Trade and Other Receivables continued The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2017 2016 m m US dollar 547 442 Euro 317 287 Brazil real 119 141 Sterling 112 97 Other currencies 909 656 2,004 1,623 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the year end is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
a Trade Receivables Trade receivables consist of amounts due from customers.
The Groups customer base is large and diverse and therefore there is limited concentration of credit risk.
Credit risk is assessed at a subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other relevant factors.
Individual credit limits are imposed based on those factors.
Balances are considered for impairment on an individual basis in addition by reference to the extent that they become overdue.
As at 31 December 2017, trade receivables of 172 million 2016: 160 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables past due but not impaired is as follows: 2017 2016 Amounts past due but not impaired m m Up to 3 months 172 160 At 31 December 2017, a provision for impairment of 55 million 2016: 45 million was recorded against certain trade receivables.
The total amount of receivables against which this provision was recorded is included in the table below.
The total amount of these receivables was not impaired because having given consideration to the nature of the receivables and their historical collection, recovery of the unprovided amount is expected in due course.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2017 2016 Ageing analysis m m Up to 3 months 45 26 Over 3 months 59 31 104 57 The movement in the provision for impaired receivables consists of increases for additional provisions, offset by receivables written-off and unused provision released back to the Income Statement.
The gross movements in the provision are considered to be insignificant.
b Other Receivables Other Receivables includes recoverable sales tax of 151 million 2016: 74 million.
This contains 3 million 2016: 5 million of impaired assets all aged over three months from a broad range of countries within the Group.
Other non-current receivables Non-current other receivables at 31 December 2017 were 99 million 2016: 81 million.
This includes non-current derivative financial instruments of 2 million 2016: 3 million.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 132 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management Financial Instruments by Category Derivatives Fair value Carrying Loans and used for through Available value receivables hedging the P&L for sale total At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Assets as per the Balance Sheet 1 Trade and other receivables 1,998 1,998 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 15 5 20 2 Available for sale financial assets 41 41 Cash and cash equivalents 2,125 2,125 Other financial Derivatives Fair value liabilities at Carrying used for through amortised value hedging the P&L cost total m m m m Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet 3 Borrowings commercial paper, bank loans and overdrafts 976 976 4 Bonds 6,443 6,443 4 Senior notes 2,350 2,350 4 Term loans 3,092 3,092 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 16 3 19 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 12 12 5 Trade and other payables 4,410 4,410 5,6 Other non-current liabilities 196 196 Derivatives Fair value Loans and used for through Available Carrying receivables hedging the P&L for sale value total At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Assets as per the Balance Sheet 7 Short-term deposits 3 3 1 Trade and other receivables 1,627 1,627 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 36 125 161 2 Available for sale financial assets 39 39 Cash and cash equivalents 882 882 Other financial Derivatives Fair value liabilities at used for through amortised Carrying hedging the P&L cost value total m m m m Liabilities as per the Balance Sheet 3 Borrowings commercial paper, bank loans and overdrafts 1,584 1,584 4 US$1 billion bond two tranches of US$500 million at 2.125% and 3.625% 804 804 3 Finance lease obligations 1 1 Derivative financial instruments FX forward exchange contracts 47 11 58 5 Trade and other payables 3,317 3,317 5,6 Other non-current liabilities 97 97 1.
Prepayments and employee benefit assets are excluded from the trade and other receivables balance as they are out of scope of IFRS 7.
Available for sale financial assets relates to an investment of less than 1% of the shares in issue of China Resources Pharmaceutical Group Limited CRP.
The categories in this disclosure are determined by IAS 39.
Borrowings largely relate to Commercial Paper.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had Commercial Paper in issue amounting to $80 million nominal values at a rate of 1.52% maturing on 16 January 2018, and 1,000 million nominal values at the rate of between negative 0.24% and negative 0.33% with maturities ranging from 22 January 2018 to 13 June 2018.
Finance leases are outside the scope of IAS 39, but they remain within the scope of IFRS 7.
Therefore finance leases have been shown separately.
The fair value of bonds at 31 December 2017 is a liability of 6,375 million 2016: 821 million.
The fair value of the Senior notes at 31 December is a liability of 2,391 million 2016: nil.
This value is derived using a quoted market rate in an active market level 1 classification.
The term loan carrying value at 31 December 2017 is a liability of 3,092 million 2016: nil.
The fair value approximates to carrying value and is calculated discounted future cash flows at floating market rates level 2 classification.
Social security liabilities, other employee benefit liabilities, and interest accrued on tax balances are excluded as they are out of scope of IFRS 7.
Other non-current liabilities principally comprises a put option over the non-controlling interests of certain Group subsidiaries in China of 105 million 2016: 94 million.
This option was written in 2016 and has a minimum term of six years.
These short-term deposits do not meet the requirements to be classified as cash equivalents as they have maturities greater than three months.
They are however highly liquid assets.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 133 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Except for the bonds and senior notes, the fair values of other financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost approximate their carrying values.
Within the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy, the bonds, senior notes and available for sale financial assets are classified as level 1.
The term loans and the derivative financial instruments are classified as level 2.
Fair value for financial instruments held at amortised cost has been estimated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.
The fair value measurement hierarchy levels have been defined asfollows: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices level 2.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data i. e. unobservable inputs level 3.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2017 is a liability of 19 million 2016: liability 58 million and an asset of 20million 2016: asset 161 million.
This value is determined using forward exchange rates derived from market sourced data at the Balance Sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value level 2 classification.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2017 is a liability of 12 million 2016: nil and was calculated by discounting future cash flows at floating market rates level 2 classification.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The Group has forward foreign exchange contracts and cash that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements.
a Financial assets Gross amounts Gross of recognised amounts of financial Net amounts of Financial recognised liabilities set off financial assets instruments not financial in the Balance presented in the set off in the Net assets Sheet Balance Sheet Balance Sheet amount At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 20 20 13 7 Cash and cash equivalents 2,125 2,125 2,125 2,145 2,145 13 2,132 Gross Gross amounts of amounts of recognised Net amounts of Financial recognised financial financial assets instruments not financial liabilities set off in presented in the set off in the Net assets the Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Balance Sheet amount As at 31 December 2016 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 161 161 58 103 Cash and cash equivalents 882 882 882 1,043 1,043 58 985 b Financial liabilities Gross Gross amounts Net amounts amounts of of recognised of financial Financial recognised financial assets liabilities instruments not financial set off in the presented in the set off in the Net liabilities Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Balance Sheet amount As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 19 19 13 6 Interest rate swaps 12 12 12 Bank overdrafts 8 8 8 39 39 13 26 Gross Gross amounts amounts of of recognised Net amounts of Financial recognised financial assets financial liabilities instruments not financial set off in the presented in the set off in the Net liabilities Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Balance Sheet amount As at 31 December 2016 m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 58 58 58 Bank overdrafts 9 9 9 67 67 58 9 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 134 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Financial Risk Management The Groups multinational operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates foreign exchange risk, market prices, interest rates, credit risks and liquidity.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that uses foreign currency financial instruments, including debt, and other instruments, to limit the impact of these risks on the financial performance of the Group.
The Groups financing and financial risk management activities are centralised into Group Treasury GT to achieve benefits of scale and control.
GT manages financial exposures of the Group centrally in a manner consistent with underlying business risks.
GT manages only those risks and flows generated by the underlying commercial operations and speculative transactions are not undertaken.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies, guidelines and authority levels for all areas of Treasury activity and individually approves significant activities.
GT operates under the close control of the CFO and is subject to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.
Market Risk a Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups policy is to align interest costs and operating profit of its major currencies in order to provide some protection against the translation exposure on foreign currency profits after tax.
The Group may undertake borrowings and other hedging methods in the currencies of the countries where most of its assets are located.
It is the Groups policy to monitor and only where appropriate hedge its foreign currency transaction exposure.
These transaction exposures arise mainly from foreign currency receipts and payments for goods and services and from the remittances of foreign currency dividends and loans.
The local business units enter into forward foreign exchange contracts with GT to manage these exposures where practical and allowed by local regulations.
GT matches the Group exposures, and hedges the position where possible, using spot and forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
The Groups strategy is to minimise Income Statement volatility by monitoring foreign currency balances, external financing, and external hedging arrangements.
The Groups hedging profile is regularly reviewed to ensure it is appropriate and to mitigate these risks as far as possible.
The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2017 was 2,760 million payable 2016: 4,614million payable.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had designated bonds totalling $1,000 million 2016: $1,000 million as the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge relationship.
The hedged risk is the foreign exchange currency risk on the value of the Groups net investment in assets and liabilities denominated in US dollars.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had designated commercial paper totalling 1,000 million 2016: 500 million as the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge relationship.
This is to hedge the risk of loss in value of the Group's Euro denominated intangible brand assets due to exchange rate fluctuations.
The net gain or loss under these arrangements is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The net effect on other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2017 was a 44 million gain 2016: 128 million loss.
If sterling strengthens weakens by 5% against the US dollar and Euro, the maximum impact on Shareholders equity due to net investment hedging by US dollar bond and Euro commercial paper would be 39 million and .
The Group held forward foreign exchange contracts denominated as cash flow hedges primarily in Sterling, Euro, US dollar, Canadian dollar, Saudi riyal and Australian dollar.
The national value of the payable leg resulting from these financial instruments was as follows: 2017 2016 Cash Flow Hedge Profile m m Sterling 383 259 Euro 221 368 US dollar 115 260 Canadian dollar 105 70 Saudi riyal 98 Australian dollar 63 87 Other 327 397 1,312 1,441 These forward foreign exchange contracts are expected to mature over the period January 2018 to December 2020 2016: January 2017 to December2020.
The ineffective portion recognised in the income statement arising from cash flow hedges is immaterial 2016: immaterial.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 135 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income on forward exchange contracts in 2017 of 12 million gain 2016: 29 million loss are recognised in the Income Statement in the year or years during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the Income Statement, which is generally within 36 months from the Balance Sheet date.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had forward contracts used for cash flow hedging with total fair value of 1 million liability 2016: 11 million liability.
These contracts are denominated in a diverse range of currency pairings, where a fluctuation of 5% in any one of the contract pairings, with all others remaining constant, would have a maximum effect of 13 million 2016: 33 million on Shareholder Equity, until the point at which the contracts mature and the forecast transaction occurs.
The four largest contract pairings in order of nominal value were US dollar sterling, US dollar Saudi riyal, US dollar Canadian dollar and Euro Polish Zloty.
The remaining major monetary financial instruments liquid assets, receivables, interest and non-interest-bearing liabilities are directly denominated in the functional currency of the Group or are transferred to the functional currency of the local entity through the use of derivatives.
The gains and losses from fair value movements on derivatives held at fair value through the profit or loss, recognised in the Income Statement in 2017 was a 61 million loss 2016: 537 million gain.
b Price risk Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity price risk related to the production or packaging of finished goods, such as oil related, and a diverse range of other, raw materials.
This risk is, however, managed primarily through medium-term contracts with certain key suppliers and is not therefore viewed as being a material risk.
c Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Group has both interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group monitors its interest income and expense rate exposure on a regular basis.
The Group manages its interest income rate exposure on its gross financial assets by using a combination of fixed rate term deposits.
Under the Groups interest rate management strategy a percentage of fixed interest rate borrowings have been swapped to floating interest rate.
The Groups debt is obtained on a fixed or floating basis to align with fixed to floating debt requirements and in some cases fixed rate debt is swapped to floating rate debt to maintain an appropriate level of fixed to floating rate debt.
Interest rate swaps are held to hedge the interest rate risk associated with the $700 million 2019 Senior Note and $750 million 2020 Senior Note.
The interest rate swaps convert the fixed rate of 4.9% on the 2019 Senior Note and 3% on the 2020 Senior Note to floating and have been designated as a fair value hedge.
As at 31 December 2017 interest rate swaps held at fair value totalled 12 million payable.
The fair value adjustment applied to the bonds due to the hedge designation totalled 12 million receivable.
Various scenarios are simulated taking into consideration refinancing, renewal of existing positions, alternative financing and hedging.
Based on these scenarios, the Group calculates the impact on the Income Statement of a defined interest rate shift.
For each simulation, the same interest rate shift is used for all currencies, calculated on a full year and pre-tax basis.
The scenarios are only run for liabilities that represent the major interest-bearing positions.
Based on the simulations performed, the impact on the Income Statement of a 50 basis-point shift in interest rates would be a maximum increase of 18 million 2016: 7 million or decrease of 18 million 2016: 7 million, respectively for the liabilities covered.
The simulation is done on a periodic basis to verify that the maximum loss simulated is within the limit given by management.
2. Credit Risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers.
The credit quality of trade and other receivables is detailed in Note 13.
Financial institution counterparties are subject to approval under the Groups counterparty risk policy and such approval is limited to financial institutions with a BBB rating or above.
The Group uses BBB and higher rated counterparties to manage risk and only uses sub BBB rated counterparties by exception.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit defined within the counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed annually by the Board of Directors.
Derivative financial instruments are only traded with counterparties approved in accordance with the approved policy.
Derivative risk is measured using a risk weighting method.
The Group has counterparty risk from asset positions held with financial institutions.
This is comprised of short-term investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives positions as stated on the face of the Balance Sheet.
For risk management purposes the Group assesses the exposure to major financial institutions by looking at the deposits, cash and cash equivalents and 5% of derivative notional position.
The following table summarises the Groups assessment of its exposure: Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 136 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued 2017 2016 Credit Limit Exposure Credit Limit Exposure Counterparty rating m m rating m m Bank A AAA 300 266 n a n a n a Bank B AAA 250 193 n a n a n a Bank C AAA 300 189 n a n a n a Bank D AAA 200 182 n a n a n a Bank E A 150 179 A 150 127 Bank F AA- 200 163 AA- 200 191 Bank G AAA 300 115 n a n a n a Bank H A 125 97 A 125 17 Bank I A 125 93 A 125 90 Bank J AA- 100 90 AA- 100 13 As a result of business combination with Mead Johnson Nutrition no prior year comparative is shown.
Liquidity Risk Cash flow forecasting is performed by the local business units and on an aggregated basis by GT.
GT monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
Funds over and above those required for short-term working capital purposes by the local businesses are generally remitted to GT.
The Group uses the remittances to settle obligations, repay borrowings, or, in the event of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments issued by institutions with a BBB rating or better.
The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it.
The Group has bilateral credit facilities with high-quality international banks and has a financial covenant, which is not expected to restrict the Groups future operations.
At the end of 2017, the Group had long-term debt of 11,515 million 2016: 804 million, of which 10,979 million 2016: 402 million is repayable in more than two years.
In addition, the Group has undrawn committed borrowing facilities totalling 4,500 million 2016: 3,500 million, which expire after more than two years.
The committed borrowing facilities both drawn and undrawn, together with central cash and investments, are considered sufficient to meet the Groups projected cash requirements.
The undrawn committed facilities available, in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met at the Balance Sheet date, were as follows: 2017 2016 m m Undrawn committed borrowing facilities: Expiring within one year Expiring between one and two years Expiring after more than two years 4,500 3,500 4,500 3,500 All borrowing facilities are at floating rates of interest.
The facilities have been arranged to cover general corporate purposes, including support for commercial paper issuance.
All facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
The Groups borrowing limit at 31 December 2017 calculated in accordance with the Articles of Association was 40,599 million 2016 restated: 25,263million.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 137 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 14 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management continued The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and the derivatives which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant Balance Sheet date, including interest to be paid.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over Total 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Commercial paper 948 948 Bonds 7,631 546 171 2,890 4,024 Term loans 3,343 65 65 3,213 Senior notes 3,243 95 613 731 1,804 Other borrowings 28 28 Interest rate swaps 16 2 8 6 Trade payables 1,770 1,770 Other payables 2,844 2,640 91 113 Between 2 Over Less than Between 1 and 5 years 5 years Total 1 year and 2 years m m At 31 December 2016 m m m Commercial paper 1,570 1,570 Bonds 930 23 428 44 435 Other borrowings 25 25 Trade payables 1,243 1,243 Other payables 2,170 2,073 97 The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period between the Balance Sheet and the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant Balance Sheet date.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2017 m m m m Forward exchange contracts Outflow 2,749 6 3 Inflow 2,763 8 5 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2016 m m m m Forward exchange contracts Outflow 4,598 6 10 Inflow 4,690 8 14 4.
Capital Management The Group considers capital to be net debt plus total equity.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, short-term available for sale financial assets and financing derivative financial instruments Note 16.
Total equity includes share capital, reserves and retained earnings as shown in the Group Balance Sheet.
2017 2016 m m Net debt Note 16 10,746 1,391 Total equity 13,573 8,426 24,319 9,817 The objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for Shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In 2017, the Group provided returns to Shareholders in the form of dividends.
Refer to Note 29 for further details.
The Group monitors net debt and at year end the Group had net debt of 10,746 million 2016: 1,391 million.
The Group seeks to pay down net debt using cash generated by the business to maintain an appropriate level of financial flexibility.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 138 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15 Cash and Cash Equivalents 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 1,355 316 Short-term bank deposits 770 566 Cash and cash equivalents 2,125 882 The Group operates in a number of territories where there are either foreign currency exchange restrictions, or where it is difficult for the Group to extract cash readily and easily in the short-term.
As a result, 10 million 2016: 120 million of cash included in cash and cash equivalents is restricted for use by the Group, yet available for use in the relevant subsidiarys day-to-day operations.
16 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 2017 2016 Current m m 1 Bank loans and overdrafts 28 25 2 Commercial paper 948 1,559 Bonds 370 Finance lease obligations 1 1,346 1,585 2017 2016 Non-current m m Bonds 6,073 804 Senior notes 2,350 Term loans 3,092 11,515 804 1.
Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies: all are unsecured and bear interest based on the relevant LIBOR equivalent.
Commercial paper was issued in US dollars and Euros, is unsecured and bears interest based on the relevant LIBOR equivalent.
2017 2016 Maturity of debt m m Bank loans and overdrafts repayable: Within one year or on demand 28 25 Other borrowings repayable: Within one year: Commercial paper 948 1,559 Finance leases 1 Bonds 370 After one year and in less than five years: Bonds 2,399 402 Senior notes 1,095 Term loans 1,324 After five years or longer: Bonds 3,674 402 Senior notes 1,255 Term loans 1,768 12,833 2,364 Gross borrowings unsecured 12,861 2,389 2017 2016 Analysis of net debt m m Cash and cash equivalents 2,125 882 Overdrafts 8 9 Cash and cash equivalents 2,117 873 Borrowings excluding overdrafts 12,853 2,380 Derivative financial instruments debt 10 113 Financing liabilities 12,863 2,267 Short-term investments 3 Net debt at end of year 10,746 1,391 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 139 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 16 Financial Liabilities Borrowings continued The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain elements of interest rate and exchange risk on its net debt.
The split between these items and other derivatives on the Balance Sheet is shown below: Assets Liabilities Current Non-Current Current Non-Current Derivative financial instruments debt 5 3 12 Derivative financial instruments non-debt 13 2 16 At 31 December 2017 18 2 19 12 Note that non-current derivative assets are presented within other non-current other receivables on the Balance Sheet.
Cash 1 and cash Financing Short term 2016 equivalents liabilities investments Net Debt Net Debt m m m m m At 1 January 2017 873 2,267 3 1,391 1,620 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,332 1,332 73 Proceeds from borrowings 19,523 19,523 469 Repayment of borrowings 10,723 10,723 695 Arising on business combinations 2,525 2,525 Other financing cash flows 12 12 219 Reduction in purchase of short-term investments 3 3 3 Exchange, fair value and other movements 88 741 653 292 At 31 December 2017 2,117 12,863 10,746 1,391 1.
2016 is presented in line with the new requirements of IAS 7 Note 1.
17 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges Legal Restructuring Other Total provisions provisions provisions provisions m m m m At 1 January 2016 141 33 170 344 Charged to the Income Statement 264 23 12 299 Charged to equity 702 702 Utilised during the year 90 33 806 929 Released to the Income Statement 2 8 10 Exchange adjustments 14 1 4 19 At 31 December 2016 329 22 74 425 Charged to the Income Statement 352 17 15 384 Arising on business combinations 7 7 Utilised during the year 142 20 9 171 Released to the Income Statement 44 9 53 Exchange adjustments 6 6 At 31 December 2017 501 26 71 598 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 2017 2016 m m Current 517 251 Non-current 81 174 598 425 Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Legal provisions of 501 million 2016: 329 million include exceptional legal provisions of 465 million 2016: 277 million in relation to a number of historic regulatory matters in a number of markets, predominantly the DoJ investigation referenced in Note 19 296 million and the HS issue in South Korea.
The HS issue is a tragic event.
The Group continues to make both public and personal apologies to victims.
During the year, a number of payments were made to victims in respect of Rounds 1, 2 and 3 of the HS issue, partially utilising the provision held for this matter.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 140 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges continued The restructuring provision relates principally to business integration costs associated with the acquisition of MJN and subsequent RB 2.0 reorganisation, the majority of which is expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions include environmental and other obligations throughout the Group, the majority of which are expected to be used within five years.
18 Operating Lease Commitments 2017 2016 Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases due m m Within one year 76 48 Later than one and less than five years 178 124 After five years 86 29 340 201 Operating lease rentals charged to the Income Statement in 2017 were 77 million 2016: 64 million.
As at 31 December 2017, total amounts expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-lease arrangements were 6 million 2016: nil.
Amounts credited to the Income Statement in respect of sub-lease arrangements were 2 million 2016: 1 million.
19 Contingent Liabilities and Assets As noted in Note 3, the Group remains involved in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Federal Trade Commission and related litigation proceedings in the US arising from certain matters relating to the RB Pharmaceuticals RBP business prior to its demerger in December 2014 to form Indivior PLC, and may incur liabilities in relation to such matters.
On 4 September 2017, the Group received notice of a further investigation by the State of California Department of Insurance in relation to similar matters.
These investigations and related proceedings are continuing and the Group has been in discussions with the DoJ.
As a consequence of these discussions the Group recorded a charge of 296 million at 31 December 2017 within discontinued operations.
The Group remains committed to ensuring these issues are concluded or resolved satisfactorily but we cannot predict with any certainty whether we will be able to reach any agreement with the DoJ or other parties who are involved in any other investigation or related proceedings.
The final cost for the Group may be materially higher than this provision.
From time to time, the Group is involved in discussions in relation to ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around the world.
Where appropriate, the Directors make provisions based on their assessment of each case.
HS South Korea The HS issue in South Korea is a tragic event.
There are a number of further expected costs and income relating to the HS issue that either cannot be reliably estimated or which are not considered probable at the current time.
Round 4 lung injury, asthma-related injury and other potential lung or non-lung injuries: The South Korean government opened Round 4 to new applicants on 22 April 2016 for an indefinite period.
It has received 4,701 applications to participate in Round 4 as at 2 February 2018 and continues to receive applications.
Additionally, a damage relief committee set up by the Ministry of Environment MOE announced a recognition standard for asthma caused by HS, based on the increased incidence of asthma in HS users.
The Group is currently unable to reliably determine how many applicants may be eligible for compensation in respect of these items because: a. T he total number of applicants, and therefore total number of potential victims, has not been assessed for Round 4 lung injuries, potential asthma injuries for all rounds or for any other injuries that the MOE may decide to recognise.
No detailed underlying data has yet been made available in respect of general causation of asthma injuries by HS, although six victims have been announced by the MOE as at 28 December 2017.
The Group continues to assess and, where appropriate, pursue rights which Oxy RB may have to recover sums from other involved parties.
On 9 August 2017, the Humidifier Sanitizer Injury Special Relief Act became effective.
Further, amendments to that Act were introduced in October 2017 and are currently being considered by the Korean government.
Given the high profile and complex nature of this issue, the amendments to this Act, the rules and regulations issued pursuant to this Act and other legal or governmental proposals or developments in South Korea may give rise to further financial liability for RB.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 141 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 20 Trade and Other Payables 2017 2016 m m Trade payables 1,770 1,243 Other payables 139 128 Other tax and social security payable 165 121 Accruals 2,555 2,003 4,629 3,495 Included within accruals is 905 million 2016: 624 million in respect of amounts payable to trade customers and government bodies for trade spend.
Within other non-current liabilities of 408 million 2016: 130 million is a financial liability of 105 million 2016: 94 million.
This liability is in respect of the present value of the expected redemption amount of a written put option granted to the non-controlling interest of certain Group subsidiaries in China Note 26.
The amortised cost of the liability is subject to estimation of the future performance of certain Group products.
Future changes in estimation would result in the remeasurement of the liability through the incomestatement.
In addition, other non-current liabilities includes US employee related payables of 34 million 2016: 33 million, and interest accrued on tax balances of 189 million 2016: not applicable.
21 Current and Non-current Tax Liabilities 2017 2016 m m Current tax liabilities 65 12 Non-current tax liabilities 1,012 740 Total current and non-current tax liabilities 1,077 752 Included in total current and non-current tax liabilities is an amount of 1,014 million 2016: 756 million relating to tax contingencies primarily arising in relation to transfer pricing and financing.
The closing balance is stated after the reclassification of interest on income tax balances of 189 million to other non-current liabilities Note 1.
The 2016 comparative has not been restated as the balance is not material.
Certain tax positions taken by us are based on industry practice, tax advice and drawing similarities from our facts and circumstances to those in case law and involve a significant degree of judgement.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to do so.
The Accounting Estimates and Judgements on pages 117 to 118 describe the significant judgements made in estimating the impact of uncertain tax provisions.
22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments Plan Details The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans around the world covering many of its employees, which are principally funded.
The Groups most significant defined benefit pension plan UK is a final salary plan, which closed to new entrants in 2005.
Trustees of the plan are appointed by the Group, active members and pensioner membership, and are responsible for the governance of the plan, including paying all administrative costs and compliance with regulations.
The plan is funded by the payment of contributions to the plans trust, which is a separate entity from the rest of the Group.
The Group also operates a number of other post-retirement plans in certain countries.
The two major plans are the US Retiree Health Care Plan and the Mead Johnson & Company, LLC Medical Plan together, the US Medical plans.
In the US Retiree Health Care Plan, salaried participants become eligible for retiree health care benefits after they reach a combined age and years of service rendered figure of 70, although the age must be a minimum of 55.
This plan closed to new members in 2009.
In the Mead Johnson & Company, LLC Medical Plan, acquired as part of the acquisition of MJN on 15 June 2017, participants become eligible for retiree health care benefits if they leave employment after the age of 65, leave after the age of 55 and have completed ten years of service, or have their employment involuntarily terminated after the age of 55.
A Benefits Committee is appointed by the Group for both of these plans, responsible for the governance of the plans, including paying all administrative costs and compliance with regulations.
Both of these plans are unfunded.
For the principal UK plan, a full independent actuarial valuation is carried out on a triennial basis.
The most recent valuation was carried out at 5 April 2016.
The Group has agreed that it will aim to eliminate the pension plan Technical Provisions deficit in the UK and Ireland by the end of 2020.
Funding levels are monitored on an annual basis and the current agreed annual deficit reduction contributions are 25 million p. a.
It is expected that contributions to the UK defined benefit plan in 2018 will be 30 million 2016: 33 million.
The funding agreement has given rise to an additional liability on the Balance Sheet for the principal plan of 55 million 2016: 36 million, which forms part of an irrecoverable surplus of 89 million 2016: 63 million for all UK plans.
This has been recognised after considering the Pension Scheme Trust Deed and Rules and the requirements of IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
As these schemes are closed to future accrual, a funding liability and limitation of the accounting surplus has been applied where the Group does not have an unconditional right to return of any surplus once member benefits has been secured.
The Group considers that the contribution rates set, and any future further contributions in excess of the contribution rate, will be sufficient to eliminate the deficit over the agreed period.
On 1 January 2018, following consultation, the principal UK plan was closed to further accrual.
There is no impact on the Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2017 and no curtailment gain or loss will be recognised in 2018 as a result of this closure.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 142 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued For the US Retiree Health Care Plan, a full independent actuarial valuation is carried out on an annual basis.
The most recent valuation was carried out on 1 January 2017.
For the Mead Johnson & Company, LLC Medical Plan, acquired as part of the MJN acquisition on 15 June 2017, the most recent valuation was carried out at 31 December 2017.
For both of these plans, funding levels are monitored on an annual basis with contributions made equal to the claims made each year.
It is expected that the combined contributions in 2018 will be 10 million 2016: 7 million to these plans.
For the purpose of IAS 19 the projected unit valuation method was used for the UK and US plans, as per the principal UK plan triennial valuation results at 5 April 2016 and the US Medical plan valuations to 31 December 2017.
The UK plans have a weighted average duration of the deferred benefit obligation of 18.5 years 2016: 18.6 years.
Significant Actuarial Assumptions The significant actuarial assumptions used in determining the Groups net liability for the UK and US Medical plans as at 31 December were: 2017 2016 US US UK Medical UK Medical % % % % Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 5.4 5.6 Rate of increase in deferred pensions during deferment 3.2 3.4 Rate of increase in pension payments 3.0 3.2 Discount rate 2.4 3.5 2.6 4.0 Inflation assumption RPI 3.4 3.6 Annual medical cost inflation 5.0-8.5 5.0-8.5 Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in accordance with published statistics and experience in each territory.
The expected lifetime of a participant aged 60 and the expected lifetime of a participant who will be aged 60 in 15 years 20 years in the US are detailed below: 2017 2016 UK US UK US years years years years Number of years a current pensioner is expected to live beyond 60: Male 29.1 25.1 29.0 25.2 Female 29.9 27.3 29.9 27.4 Number of years a future pensioner is expected to live beyond 60: Male 30.8 26.8 30.7 27.0 Female 31.7 29.0 31.6 29.2 For the principal UK plan, the mortality assumptions were based on the standard SAPS mortality table 2NMA for males scaled by 85% and table 2NFA for females scaled by 100%.
Allowance for future improvements is made by adopting the 2015 edition of the CMI series with a long-term trend of 1.5% per annum from 2007 onwards.
For the US plan the mortality assumptions were determined using the RP-2014 Total Employee and Health Annuitant Mortality Tables rolled back to 2006 and projected with Mortality Improvement Scale MP-2017.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 143 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued Amounts Recognised on the Balance Sheet The amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Balance Sheet obligations for: UK 55 84 US Medical 137 108 Other 201 169 Liability on Balance Sheet 393 361 Balance Sheet assets for: UK 33 Other 57 36 Asset on Balance Sheet 90 36 Net pension liability 303 325 The funded and unfunded amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet are determined as follows: 2017 2016 UK US Medical Other Total UK US Medical Other Total m m m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 1,635 569 2,204 1,642 373 2,015 Fair value of plan assets 1,702 574 2,276 1,621 381 2,002 Surplus deficit of funded plans 67 5 72 21 8 13 Present value of unfunded obligations 137 149 286 108 141 249 1 Irrecoverable surplus 89 89 63 63 Net pension liability 22 137 144 303 84 108 133 325 1.
The movement in irrecoverable surplus since prior year comprises an underlying liability increase of 24 million and a finance expense of 2 million.
Group plan assets are comprised as follows: 2017 2016 UK US Medical Other Total UK US Medical Other Total m m m m m m m m Equities quoted 374 264 638 382 217 599 Government bonds 841 124 965 772 77 849 Corporate bonds 325 143 468 316 61 377 Real Estate property unquoted 148 19 167 141 16 157 Other assets unquoted 14 24 38 10 10 20 Fair value of plan assets 1,702 574 2,276 1,621 381 2,002 The present value of obligations for the principal UK plan and the US Medical plans at last valuation date is attributable to participants as follows: 2017 2016 UK US Medical UK US Medical m m m m Active participants 211 50 196 28 Participants with deferred benefits 632 2 615 2 Participants receiving benefits 792 85 831 78 Present value of obligation 1,635 137 1,642 108 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 144 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued The movement in the Groups net deficit is as follows: Present value of obligation Fair value of plan assets UK US Medical Other Total UK US Medical Other Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 1,322 122 426 1,870 1,355 321 1,676 Current service cost 6 2 11 19 Curtailment gains 37 1 38 Interest expense income 49 6 16 71 51 14 65 55 29 26 52 51 14 65 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 226 9 235 Gain loss from changes in demographic assumptions 3 2 7 2 Loss from change in financial assumptions 384 1 5 390 Experience gains losses 53 3 6 44 328 2 18 348 226 9 235 Exchange differences 20 62 82 51 51 Contributions employees Contributions employers 52 7 4 63 Payments from plans: Benefit payments 63 7 18 88 63 7 18 88 At 31 December 2016 1,642 108 514 2,264 1,621 381 2,002 Arising on business combinations 36 262 298 221 221 Current service cost 10 2 11 23 Curtailment gains 1 1 Interest expense income 42 5 22 69 42 20 62 52 7 32 91 42 20 62 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income 71 36 107 Gain loss from changes in demographic assumptions 1 2 1 Loss from change in financial assumptions 12 7 24 43 Experience gains losses 1 6 5 12 5 32 49 71 36 107 Exchange differences 11 33 44 34 34 Contributions employees 1 1 Contributions employers 40 8 23 71 Payments from plans: Benefit payments 72 8 51 131 72 8 51 131 Disposal of RB Food 38 38 22 22 As at 31 December 2017 1,635 137 718 2,490 1,702 574 2,276 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 145 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued Amounts Recognised in the Income Statement The charge for the year ended 31 December is shown below: 2017 2016 Income Statement charge credit included in operating profit for: m m Defined contribution plans 41 27 Defined benefit plans net charge credit excluding interest UK 10 6 US Medical 2 35 Other 10 10 1 Total pension costs included in operating profit Note 5 63 8 2 Income Statement charge included in finance expense Note 6 9 6 Income Statement charge included in profit before income tax 72 14 3 Remeasurement gains losses for : UK 59 102 US Medical 5 2 Other 4 9 58 113 1.
The Income Statement charge recognised in operating profit includes current service cost, past service costs and gains and losses on settlement and curtailment.
The Income Statement charge recognised in finance expense includes 2 million interest on the irrecoverable surplus not shown in the net deficit movement table shown previously.
Remeasurement gains losses excludes 24 million loss 2016: 63 million loss recognised in OCI for irrecoverable surplus.
Sensitivity of Significant Actuarial Assumptions The sensitivity of the UK defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumptions is shown below: 2017 Change in assumption Change in defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase 0.1% Decrease by 1.9% RPI increase Increase 0.1% Increase by 0.5% Life expectancy Members live 1 year longer Increase by 4.5% 2016 Change in assumption Change in defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase 0.1% Decrease by 1.9% RPI increase Increase 0.1% Increase by 0.5% Life expectancy Members live 1 year longer Increase by 4.5% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Impact of Medical Cost Trend Rates A one percent change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have an immaterial impact on the service cost, interest cost and postretirement benefit obligation.
Risk and Risk Management Through its defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed as follows: Asset Volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
If plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
Both the UK and US plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and risk in the short-term.
As the plans mature, the Group intends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the liabilities.
All the UK plans have agreed with the Company a plan to fide-risk the investment strategy of the plans at a pace that is commensurate with a planned return to full funding over a reasonable timescale.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 146 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Pension and Post-Retirement Commitments continued The fide-risking plan provides for a proportion of the investment portfolio to move from equity holdings to government and corporate bonds over time.
The corporate bonds are global securities with an emphasis on the UK and US.
However, the Group believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities and the strength of the supporting group, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Groups long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Changes in Bond Yields: A decrease in government and corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation Risk: Some of the Groups pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
The majority of the plans assets are either unaffected by fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated with equities inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
In the US plans, the pensions in payment are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
Life Expectancy: The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member.
Whilst the plans allow for an increase in life expectancy, increases above this assumption will result in an increase in the plans liabilities.
This is particularly significant in the UK plan, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
Change in Regulations: The Group is aware that future changes to the regulatory framework may impact the funding basis of the various plans in the future.
The Groups pensions department monitors the changes in legislation and analyses the risks as and when they occur.
Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
A large portion of assets consists of quoted equities and quoted bonds, although the Group also invests in property and cash.
The Group believes that quoted equities offer the best returns over the long-term with an acceptable level of risk.
The trustees of all the UK funds have moved the overwhelming majority of their assets to low cost investment funds in consultation with the Group whilst maintaining a prudent diversification.
23 Share Capital Equity ordinary Nominal shares value Issued and fully paid number m At 1 January 2016 736,535,179 74 At 31 December 2016 736,535,179 74 At 1 January 2017 736,535,179 74 At 31 December 2017 736,535,179 74 The holders of ordinary shares par value 10p are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Parent Company.
Allotment of Ordinary Shares and Release of Treasury Shares During the year nil ordinary shares 2016: nil ordinary shares were allotted and 3,728,361 ordinary shares were released from Treasury 2016: 3,662,122 to satisfy vestings exercises under the Groups various share schemes as follows: 2017 2016 Number Consideration Number Consideration Ordinary shares of 10p of shares m of shares m Executive Share Options exercises 2,145,152 85 2,139,330 72 Restricted Shares Awards vesting 1,328,980 1,261,616 Total under Executive Share Option and Restricted Share Schemes 3,474,132 85 3,400,946 72 Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan vesting 31,000 9,216 Savings-Related Share Option Schemes exercises 223,229 9 251,960 7 Total 3,728,361 94 3,662,122 79 Market Purchases of Shares During 2017 the Company ceased its share buyback programme.
In 2016, the Company bought back 11,658,939 shares, all of which were held as Treasury shares.
In 2016, the total amount paid to acquire the shares was 798 million 802 million including stamp duty, which was deducted from Shareholders equity.
Proceeds received from the reissuance of Treasury shares to exercise share options were 94 million 2016: 79 million.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 147 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 24 Share-Based Payments The Group operates a number of incentive schemes, including a share option scheme, a restricted share scheme, and other share award schemes.
During 2017, as part of a transitional scheme for MJN employees, a cash-settled scheme replaced an MJN equity-settled scheme.
All other schemes within the Group are equity-settled.
The total charge for share-based payments for the year was 78 million 2016: 66 million.
Executive Share Awards Executive share awards, comprising both Executive Share Options and Restricted Share Awards, are awarded to the Top400 Management Group.
Executive Share Options are awarded at an exercise price determined on grant date and become payable on exercise following satisfaction of performance criteria.
Restricted Share Awards entitle the recipient to receive shares at no cost following satisfaction of the following performancecriteria.
For awards granted before December 2012: Adjusted earnings per share growth over three years % 6% 6% 7% 8% 9% Proportion of awards vesting % Nil 40% 60% 80% 100% For awards granted in December 2013 and thereafter: Adjusted earnings per share growth over three years % 6% 6% Between 6% and 10% 10% Proportion of awards vesting % Nil 20% Straight-line vesting between 20% and 100% 100% The cost is spread over the three years of the performance period.
For Executive Committee and Top40 members, vesting conditions must be met over the three-year period and are not retested.
For remaining Top400 members the targets can be retested after four or five years.
If any target has not been met any remaining shares or options which have not vested will lapse.
Other Share Awards Other share awards represent SAYE Schemes offered to all staff within the relevant geographic area and a number of Senior Executive Share Ownership Policy Plan SOPP awards.
Other share awards have contractual lives of between three and eight years and are generally not subject to any vesting criteria other than the employees continued employment.
Individual tranches of these other share awards are not material for detailed disclosure and therefore have been aggregated in the tables following.
Modifications to Share Awards The Remuneration Committee approved modifications to all unexercised share schemes in December 2014 following the demerger of RB Pharmaceuticals to compensate for the loss of scheme value.
For SAYE schemes this was in the form of a one-off payment.
For executive share awards this included an adjustment to shares under the amount of each grant, and the lowering of exercise price, where applicable.
There is no change to the IFRS fair value charge as a result of these modifications.
Summary of Shares Outstanding All outstanding Executive and Other share awards as at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 are included in the tables following which analyse the charge for 2017 and 2016.
The Group has used the Black-Scholes model to calculate the fair value of one award on the date of the grant of theaward.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 148 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24 Share-Based Payments continued Table 1: Fair value The most significant awards are share options and restricted shares, details of which have been provided below.
Grant date and exercise price for each of the awards are shown in Table 1.
Options outstanding at 31 December 2017 that could have been exercised at that date were 3,897,913 2016: 3,727,376 with a weighted average exercise price of 38.82 2016: 32.49.
The assumptions made within the valuation calculation with respect to the achievement of performance criteria are based on the Directors expectations in light of the Groups business model and relevant published targets.
Under the terms of the schemes, early exercise may only be granted in exceptional circumstances and therefore the effect of early exercise is not incorporated into the calculation.
The calculation also assumes that there will be no leavers in the following year.
No material modifications have been made to these calculations in 2017 or 2016 for the purposes of the valuation.
An estimate of future volatility is made with reference to historical volatility over a similar time period to the performance period or the contractual life as appropriate.
Historical volatility is calculated based on the annualised standard deviation of the Groups daily share price movement, being an approximation to the continuously compounded rate of return on the share.
National Insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payment transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions.
The contribution in 2017 was 43 million 2016: 51 million.
The weighted average share price for the year was 71.70 2016: 68.77.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 151 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 24 Share-Based Payments continued Options and Restricted Shares Granted During the Year Options and restricted shares granted during the year which may vest or become exercisable at various dates between 2018 and 2023 are as follows: Price to be Number of paid shares under Executive share option and restricted share schemes option Reckitt Benckiser 2018 Long-term Incentive Plan share options 64.99 3,200,000 Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan restricted shares 1,600,000 Reckitt Benckiser Group Senior Executive Share Ownership Policy Plan 12,800 Total 4,812,800 Savings-related share option schemes UK Scheme 58.95 223,131 US Scheme 58.95 94,231 Overseas Scheme 58.95 1,273,468 Total 1,590,830 Options and Restricted Shares Outstanding at 31 December 2017 Options and restricted shares which have vested or may vest at various dates between 2018 and 2022 are as follows: Price to be paid Number of shares under option Executive share option and restricted share schemes From To 2017 2016 Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2007 Annual Grant options 26.54 71.80 14,695,054 15,088,622 Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2007 Annual Grant restricted shares 5,185,044 5,688,660 Reckitt Benckiser Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan 146,800 170,000 Total 20,026,898 20,947,282 Savings-related share option schemes UK Scheme 16.90 58.95 749,003 687,635 US Scheme 22.88 58.95 294,434 323,495 Overseas Scheme 21.95 58.95 2,112,455 944,934 Total 3,155,892 1,956,064 25 Other Reserves Foreign currency Hedging translation Total other reserve reserve reserves m m m Balance at 1 January 2016 18 964 946 Other comprehensive expense income Losses on cash flow hedges, net of tax 22 22 Net exchange gains on foreign currency translation, net of tax 1,618 1,618 Losses on net investment hedges 128 128 Total other comprehensive expense income for the year 22 1,490 1,468 Balance at 31 December 2016 4 526 522 Other comprehensive income expense Gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 3 3 Net exchange losses on foreign currency translation, net of tax 308 308 Gains on net investment hedges 44 44 Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on disposal of foreign operations net of tax 145 145 Total other comprehensive income expense for the year 3 119 116 Balance at 31 December 2017 1 407 406 The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedge transactions that are extant at year end.
The foreign currency translation reserve contains the accumulated foreign exchange differences from the translation of the Financial Statements of the Groups foreign operations arising when the Groups entities are consolidated.
The reserve also contains the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net exposure in a foreign currency.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 152 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26 Related Party Transactions RB & Manon Business Co. Ltd Manon As part of the arrangements with the non-controlling shareholders of Manon, the parties are subject to symmetrical put and call options over the non-controlling Shareholdings, exercisable together after a period of six years, with possible extensions available at the agreement of the parties.
The present value of the put option at year end was a liability of 105 million 2016: 94 million liability.
Indivior PLC Indivior PLC is no longer considered to be a related party for the year ended 31 December 2017 following the resignations of Adrian Hennah Reckitt Benckiser Group plc CFO and Rupert Bondy Reckitt Benckiser Group plc SVP General Counsel and Company Secretary from the Indivior Board of Directors in May and September 2016 respectively.
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the Group recognised 5 million in other operating income in respect of operational services provided to Indivior PLC.
Certain outstanding balances totalling 6 million relating to adjustments in the final UK corporation tax liabilities were also settled on behalf of Indivior PLC by Reckitt Benckiser plc in 2016.
Other The Group has related party relationships with its Directors and key management personnel Note 5 and pension schemes Note 22.
27 Acquisitions On 15 June 2017, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of MJN for cash consideration of 13,044 million $16,642million.
MJN is a global leader in infant and childrens nutrition.
The acquisition of MJN is aligned with the Groups well-established strategic focus on growing in consumer health and on investing in Powerbrands with attractive growth prospects.
Provisional goodwill of 8,023 million arises on the acquisition, of which 3,194 million is a consequence of the requirement to record deferred tax liabilities for certain acquired assets.
Goodwill represents the potential for further synergies arising from combining the acquired business with the Groups existing businesses, together with the value of the workforce acquired.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The following table summarises the consideration paid and the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The amount of consideration transferred in excess of the value of total identifiable net assets is recorded as goodwill.
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed m Intangible assets 9,169 Property, plant and equipment 921 Inventories 547 Trade and other receivables 354 Cash and cash equivalents 1,224 Borrowings 2,525 Retirement benefit obligations 77 Deferred tax liabilities, net 3,194 Trade and other payables 1,018 Provisions 7 Current tax liabilities 342 Total identifiable net assets 5,052 Non-controlling interest 31 Goodwill 8,023 Total 13,044 Cash consideration 13,044 Total consideration transferred 13,044 Acquisition-related transaction costs of 60 million have been included in net operating expenses and disclosed as exceptional items in the Group Income Statement Note 3.
Included within intangible assets are brands of 9,169 million, substantially comprising Enfamil 6,328 million and Nutramigen 1,718 million.
The fair values of current tax liabilities and provisions are stated at provisional amounts, which will be finalised within the twelve-month measurement period following the acquisition.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2017, the acquisition contributed 1,555 million to Net Revenue and 329 million to adjusted operating profit.
Had the acquisition taken place at 1 January 2017, the enlarged Group consolidated Net Revenue would have been 12,814 million and Adjusted Operating Profit would have been 3,384 million.
The provisional fair values relating to the acquisition of Nances Holdings S. A. in 2016 were revised during 2017, following a 3 million refund of the cash consideration.
This reduced goodwill by 3 million.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 153 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 28 Discontinued Operations On 17 August 2017, the Group sold the RB Food business to McCormick & Company, Inc. for $4.2 billion 3.2 billion in cash.
This transaction disposed of current assets of 99 million, non-current assets of 66 million, current liabilities of 65 million and non-current liabilities of 34 million.
RB Food was a major line of business and therefore meets the definition of a discontinued operation.
Gain on sale of RB Food 2017 m Sale proceeds and related costs 3,236 Net assets disposed 66 Net realised gain in other comprehensive income reclassified to the Income Statement 145 Other 1 Gain on disposal, before tax 3,024 In addition, and as described in Note 3, the Group has recorded an exceptional charge of 296 million in respect of its legacy RB Pharmaceuticals business which was demerged to form Indivior PLC in 2014.
Financial information relating to the operations of RB Food and RB Pharmaceuticals for the year is set out below.
The Group Income Statement and Group Cash Flow Statement distinguish discontinued operations from continued operations.
Comparative figures have been restated.
2017 2017 2017 RB Food RBP Total 2016 m m m m For the year ended 31 December Revenue 249 249 411 Expenses 175 296 471 270 Profit before tax of discontinued operations 74 296 222 141 Tax 19 19 38 Profit after tax of discontinued operations 55 296 241 103 Pre-tax gain recognised on disposal of RB Food 3,024 3,024 Tax credit 13 13 After tax gain recognised on disposal of RB Food 3,037 3,037 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 3,092 296 2,796 103 The major classes of cash flows related to RB Food are as follows: 2017 2016 For the year ended 31 December m m Cash flows from operating activities 48 120 Cash flows from investing activities 3,232 3 Cash flows from financing activities Net increase in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations 3,280 117 29 Dividends 2017 2016 m m Cash dividends on equity ordinary shares: 2016 Final paid: 95.0p 2015: Final 88.7p per share 666 625 2017 Interim paid: 66.6p 2016: Interim 58.2p per share 468 410 Total dividends for the year 1,134 1,035 The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2017 of 97.7p per share which will absorb an estimated 688 million of Shareholders funds.
If approved by Shareholders it will be paid on 24 May 2018 to Shareholders who are on the register on 13 April 2018, with an ex-dividend date of 12 April 2018.
30 Post Balance Sheet Events As at 19 March 2018, there are no post-balance sheet events requiring disclosure.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 154 Five Year Summary The five year summary below is presented on a statutory basis.
The year ending 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017 show the results for continuing operations and exclude the impact of RB Food.
The years ending 31 December 2013, 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015 show the results for continuing operations including RB Food.
All years exclude the impact of RB Pharmaceuticals.
The Balance Sheet has not been restated for the impact of discontinued operations.
3 Restated 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Income Statement m m m m m Net Revenue 11,512 9,480 8,874 8,836 9,266 Operating Profit 2,737 2,269 2,241 2,164 1,887 Adjusted Operating Profit 3,122 2,636 2,374 2,185 2,143 Adjusting items 385 367 133 21 256 Operating Profit 2,737 2,269 2,241 2,164 1,887 Net finance expense 238 16 33 38 31 Profit before income tax 2,499 2,253 2,208 2,126 1,856 Income tax benefit expense 894 520 463 462 453 Attributable to non-controlling interests 17 4 2 1 1 Net income attributable to owners of the parent from continuing operations 3,376 1,729 1,743 1,663 1,402 Balance Sheet Net assets 13,573 8,426 6,906 6,834 6,336 Net Working Capital 1,424 1,102 936 831 863 Statistics Reported basis Operating margin 23.8% 23.9% 25.3% 24.5% 20.4% Total interest to Operating Profit times covered 11.5x 141.8x 67.9x 56.9x 60.9x Tax rate -35.8% 23.1% 21.0% 21.7% 24.4% Diluted earnings per share, continuing 474.7p 242.1p 240.9p 227.6p 192.3p 1 Dividend cover 2.9x 1.6x 1.7x 1.6x 1.4x Declared total dividends per ordinary share 164.3p 153.2p 139p 139p 137p 2 Adjusted basis Operating margin 27.1% 27.8% 26.8% 24.7% 23.1% Total interest to operating profit times covered 13.1x 164.8x 71.9x 57.5x 69.1x Diluted earnings per share, continuing 316.9p 287.6p 258.6p 230.5p 222.1p 1 Dividend cover 1.9x 1.9x 1.9x 1.7x 1.6x 1. Dividend cover is calculated by dividing adjusted diluted earnings adjusted earnings per share by total ordinary dividends per share relating to the year.
Adjusted basis is calculated by excluding the adjusting items for the year Note 3.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 155 Strategic Report Parent Company Balance Sheet Governance Financial Statements 2017 2016 As at 31 December Notes m m Fixed Assets Investments 2 14,925 14,861 Current Assets Debtors due within one year 3,6 39 42 Debtors due after more than one year 4 8 7 Cash and cash equivalents 6 2 1 49 50 Current Liabilities Creditors due within one year 5,6 6,697 6,484 Net Current Liabilities 6,648 6,434 Total Assets less Current Liabilities 8,277 8,427 Provisions for liabilities and charges 7 356 62 Net Assets 7,921 8,365 EQUITY Capital and Reserves Share capital 8 74 74 Share premium 243 243 Retained earnings At 1 January 8,048 5,735 Profit for the financial year 522 3,906 Other changes in retained earnings 966 1,593 At 31 December 7,604 8,048 Total Equity 7,921 8,365 The Financial Statements on pages 155 to 175 were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: ADRIAN BELLAMY RAKESH KAPOOR Director Director Company Number: 06270876 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 156 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2017 Share Share Retained Total capital premium earnings equity m m m m Balance at 1 January 2016 74 243 5,735 6,052 Comprehensive income Profit for the financial year 3,906 3,906 Total comprehensive income 3,906 3,906 Transactions with owners Treasury shares re-issued 79 79 Share-based payments 14 14 Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 702 702 Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments 51 51 Cash dividends 1,035 1,035 Total transactions with owners 1,593 1,593 Balance at 31 December 2016 74 243 8,048 8,365 Comprehensive income Profit for the financial year 522 522 Total comprehensive income 522 522 Transactions with owners Treasury shares re-issued 94 94 Share-based payments 10 10 Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments 64 64 Cash dividends 1,134 1,134 Total transactions with owners 966 966 Balance at 31 December 2017 74 243 7,604 7,921 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has 7,011 million 2016: 7,529 million of its retained earnings available for distribution.
Details of Treasury shares and other equity transactions are included in Note 23 of the Group Financial Statements.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 157 Strategic Report Notes to the Parent Company Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements 1 Parent Company Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
General Information and Basis of Accounting Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom, registered in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006, and is limited by shares.
The address of the registered office is given on page 177.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 51.
Statement of Compliance The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in compliance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102, The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland FRS102 and the Companies Act 2006.
The functional currency of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc is considered to be Pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
As permitted by s. 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a Statement of Comprehensive Income is not presented for Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Going Concern The Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Company Financial Statements.
Financial Reporting Standard 102 Reduced Disclosure Exemptions FRS 102 allows a qualifying entity certain disclosure exemptions, subject to certain conditions, which have been complied with.
The Company has taken advantage of the following exemptions: i from preparing a Statement of Cash Flows, on the basis that it is a qualifying entity and the Group Cash Flow Statement, included in these Financial Statements, includes the Companys cash flows: ii from disclosing the Company key management personnel compensation, as required by FRS 102 paragraph 33.7.
The Companys results are included in the publicly available consolidated Financial Statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and these Financial Statements may be obtained from 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH.
Foreign Currency Translation Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Taxation The tax charge credit is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in full and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
A net deferred tax asset is considered recoverable if it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscountedbasis.
Fixed Asset Investments Fixed asset investments are stated at the lower of cost or their recoverable amount, which is determined as the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
A review of the potential impairment of an investment is carried out by the Directors if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the investment may not be recoverable.
Such impairment reviews are performed in accordance with FRS 102 Section 27 'Impairment of assets'.
Employee Share Schemes Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option and restricted share schemes which vest in accordance with non-marketconditions.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in comprehensive income or expense such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged, including social security taxes, to the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the same period with a corresponding liability recognised.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 158 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 1 Parent Company Accounting Policies continued The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the Company Financial Statements.
Financial Instruments The Company only enters into basic financial instrument transactions that result in the recognition of basic financial assets and liabilities, including trade and other receivables and payables and loans to and from related parties.
These transactions are initially recorded at transaction price, unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction where the transaction is measured at the present value of the future receipt discounted at a market rate of interest, and subsequently recognised at amortised cost.
i Financial Assets At the end of each reporting period financial assets measured at amortised cost are assessed for objective evidence of impairment.
If an asset is impaired the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
The impairment loss is recognised in comprehensive income or expense.
Financial assets are derecognised when a the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or are settled, or b substantially all the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset are transferred to another party or c control of the asset has been transferred to another party who has the practical ability to unilaterally sell the asset to an unrelated third party without imposing additional restrictions.
ii Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is extinguished, that is when the contractual obligation is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Share Capital Transactions When the Company purchases equity share capital, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge to equity.
Purchased shares are either held in Treasury in order to satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to maintain capital, an equivalent amount to the nominal value of the shares cancelled is transferred from retained earnings.
Dividends Dividends payable are recognised when they meet the criteria for a present obligation i. e. when they have been approved.
Accounting Estimates and Judgements In the application of the Companys accounting policies the Directors are required to make a number of estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the significant estimates and judgements made in applying the Companys accounting policies.
Estimates: The Company recognises legal and regulatory provisions in line with the Groups provisions policy.
The level of provisioning for regulatory, civil and or criminal investigation is an issue where management and legal judgement is important.
These are valued based on the Directors' best estimates taking into account all available information, external advice and historical experience.
Judgements: Determine whether there are indicators of impairment of the Companys fixed asset investments.
The Companys Directors are of the opinion that there are no further judgements and no key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities for the Company within the next financial year.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 159 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2 Investments Shares in subsidiary undertakings m Cost At 1 January 2016 14,810 Additions during the year 51 At 31 December 2016 14,861 Additions during the year 64 At 31 December 2017 14,925 Provision for impairment At 1 January 2016 Provided for during the year At 31 December 2016 Provided for during the year At 31 December 2017 Net book amounts At 31 December 2016 14,861 At 31 December 2017 14,925 The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
The subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2017, all of which are included in the Group Financial Statements, are shown in Note 15 of the Company Financial Statements.
With the exception of Reckitt Benckiser plc, none of the subsidiaries are directly held by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
All subsidiaries have a financial year ending 31 December with the exception of Reckitt Benckiser India Private Limited, Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare India Private Limited, Reckitt Benckiser Scholl India Private Limited and Reckitt & Colman Management Services Ireland Limited which have a year ending 31 March: Lloyds Pharmaceuticals which has a year ending 24 August: Crookes Healthcare Limited which has a year ending 31 January and Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Ireland Limited which has a year ending 30 November.
Additions during the year relate to the grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group.
3 Debtors due within one year 2017 2016 m m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 39 42 Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and are repayable on demand 2016: same.
4 Debtors due after more than one year 2017 2016 m m Deferred tax assets 8 7 Deferred tax assets consist of short-term timing differences.
5 Creditors due within one year 2017 2016 m m Amounts owed to Group undertakings 6,687 6,473 Taxation and social security 10 11 6,697 6,484 Included in the amounts owed to Group undertakings is an amount of 6,675 million 2016: 6,434 million which is unsecured, carries interest at 3-month LIBOR and is repayable on demand 2016: same.
All other amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, non-interest bearing and are repayable on demand 2016: same.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 160 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 6 Financial Instruments 2017 2016 m m Financial Assets Financial assets that are debt instruments measured at amortised cost 39 42 Cash and cash equivalents 2 1 Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 6,687 6,473 7 Provisions for Liabilities and Charges Share Legal buyback Total provisions provisions provisions m m m At 1 January 2016 111 100 211 Charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 12 12 Charged to equity 702 702 Utilised during the year 5 802 807 Released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 56 56 At 31 December 2016 62 62 Charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 306 306 Utilised during the year 11 11 Released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 1 1 At 31 December 2017 356 356 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 2017 2016 m m Current 356 62 Non-current 356 62 Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Legal provisions include indemnities provided by the Company.
Legal provisions released during the prior year relate to those for which an indemnity is no longer required.
The utilisation of legal provisions during the year relates to legal costs for ongoing litigation proceedings.
The Group remains involved in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Federal Trade Commission and related litigation proceedings in the US arising from certain matters relating to the RBP business prior to its demerger in December 2014 to form Indivior PLC, and may incur liabilities in relation to such matters.
These investigations and related proceedings are continuing and we have been in discussions with the DoJ.
As a consequence of these discussions the Company recorded a charge of 296 million at 31 December 2017.
The final cost for the Company may be materially higher than this reserve.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 161 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 8 Share Capital Equity Nominal ordinary value Issued and fully paid shares m At 1 January 2017 736,535,179 74 Allotments At 31 December 2017 736,535,179 74 At 31 December 2017 736,535,179 74 For details of the share buyback programme and allotment of ordinary shares during the prior year refer to Note 23 of the Group Financial Statements.
The holders of ordinary shares par value 10p are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Parent Company.
9 Employees and Executive Directors Employees The average monthly number of persons including Executive Directors employed by the Company during the year was: 2017 2016 No.
By Activity Administration 2 2 The Executive Directors aggregate emoluments were 2 million 2016: 2 million.
Employee costs 2017 2016 m m The total employment costs were: Wages, salaries and other pension costs 2 2 Social security costs 2 3 Share-based payments 10 14 14 19 10 Share-Based Payments Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has two employees, the Groups CEO and CFO.
The following tables include details of the share awards granted to individuals whilst holding these roles, and those for any individuals previously holding these roles.
Details of the share awards that are not fully vested are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 94.
The charge for share-based payments for the year was 10 million 2016: 14million and National Insurance contributions were 10 million 2016: 11 million.
The Company is unable to directly measure the fair value of employee services received.
Instead the fair value of the share options granted during the year is determined using the Black-Scholes model.
The model is internationally recognised as being appropriate to value employee share schemes similar to the All employee and Key employee schemes.
The fair value of awards with options outstanding at 31 December 2017 is shown in Note 24 of the Group Financial Statements.
For details of the contractual life, performance criteria, valuation assumptions and volatility of the share awards, please refer to Note 24 of the Group FinancialStatements.
For options outstanding at the Balance Sheet date the weighted average remaining contractual life of the outstanding options is 6.57 years 2016: 6.78 years.
Theweighted average share price for the year was 71.70 2016: 68.77.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 163 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 11 Auditors Remuneration The fee charged for the statutory audit of the Company was 0.05 million 2016: 0.05 million.
12 Related Party Transactions Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has related party relationships with its pension schemes as disclosed in Note 26 of the Group Financial Statements.
In the prior year certain outstanding balances, totalling 6 million, were settled with Indivior PLC.
These related to adjustments to final UK corporation tax liabilities settled on behalf of Indivior PLC by Reckitt Benckiser plc.
There were no other transactions with related parties other than wholly-owned companies within the Group.
13 Contingent Liabilities The Company has issued a guarantee to the Trustees of the Reckitt Benckiser Pension Fund covering the obligations of certain UK subsidiaries of the Group who are the sponsoring employers of the UK defined benefit pension fund.
The guarantee covers any amounts due to the pension fund from these subsidiaries if they fail to meet their pension obligations.
As referred to in Note 7, the Group remains involved in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Federal Trade Commission and related litigation proceedings in the US arising from certain matters relating to the RBP business prior to its demerger in December 2014 to form Indivior PLC, and may incur liabilities in relation to such matters.
The Company has also issued a guarantee on behalf of Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services plc in relation to the issuance of a US$8,750 million bond two tranches of US$2,500 million, one tranche of US$2,000 million, one tranche of US$750 million and two tranches of US$500 million.
Details are included in Note 14 of the Group Financial Statements.
The Company has also issued a guarantee on behalf of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company in relation to outstanding senior notes of US$3,000 million issued by Mead Johnson Nutrition Company prior to acquisition two tranches of US$750 million, one tranche of US$700 million, one tranche of US$500 million and one tranche of US$300 million.
Other contingent liabilities are discussed in Note 19 of the Group Financial Statements.
14 Dividends During 2017, the Directors declared an interim cash dividend of 66.6p 2016: 58.2p and proposed a final cash dividend of 97.7p 2016: 95.0p.
Forfurther details, refer to Note 29 of the Group Financial Statements.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 164 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15 Subsidiary Undertakings Reckitt Benckiser Group plc holds 100% of the ordinary share capital of Reckitt Benckiser plc, a Company incorporated in England and Wales with its registered office at 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH United Kingdom.
The Company has no further direct shareholdings.
All subsidiary undertakings of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc are included in the consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held 0730033 BC Ltd Canada Suite 2300, 550 Burard Street, Vancouver BC V6C 2BS COMMON 100.00% 103-105 Bath Road Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% 2309 Realty Corporation Philippines 2309 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, PH 1321, A & B SHARES 88.32% Philippines Airwick Industrie SAS France 38 rue Victor Basch, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% Anhui Guilong Pharmaceutical Trading China Dangtu Economic Development Zone, Maanshan City, Anhui ORD 100.00% Company Ltd Province, China  Lemore BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Benckiser UK 4th Floor, 115, George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 4JN, Scotland ORD 100.00% Blisa, LLC USA Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Membership 100.00% fide 19808, New Castle County Shares Brevet Hospital Products UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% British Surgical Industries Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Canterbury Square Holdings Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Central Square Holding BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Crookes Healthcare Limited Ireland 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, ORD 100.00% Ireland Crookes Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Cupal, Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Dakin Brothers Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Dorincourt Holdings Ireland Limited Ireland 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, ORD 100.00% Ireland Durex Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Earex Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% ERH Propack Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Fenla Industria, Comercio e Administracao Brazil Rodovia Raposo Tavares, 8015, km 18, Jardim Arpoador, CEP ORD 100.00% Ltda 05577-900, Sao Paulo, Brazil Gainbridge Investments Cyprus Limited Cyprus 1 Lampousas Street, P. C. 1095, Nicosia, Cyprus ORD 100.00% Glasgow Square Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Green, Young & Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Grosvenor Square Holding BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Guilong Pharmaceutical Anhui Co. Ltd China Dangtu Economic Development Zone, Maanshan City, Anhui ORD 100.00% Province, China Guilong Pharmaceutical Anhui Co. Ltd China 11F New Port Plaza, 10 Hubinbei Road, Xiamen, China 100.00% Xiamen Branch Hamol Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Helpcentral Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Howard Lloyd & Company, Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Kukident GmbH Germany Heinestrasse 9, 69469 Weinheim, Germany ORD 100.00% Lancaster Square Holdings SL Spain Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% LI Pensions Trust Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Linden Germany A Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Linden Germany B Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Lloyds Pharmaceuticals UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% London International Group Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 165 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held London International Trading Asia Ltd Hong Kong Units 1503-7, 15th Floor, Millennium City 6, 392 Kwun Tong, ORD 100.00% Kowloon, Hong Kong LRC Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% LRC North America Inc USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, COMMON 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States LRC Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% LRC Products Limited Australian Branch Australia 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia 100.00% LRC Secretarial Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Maddison Square Holding BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Manufactura MJN, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Ave fide las Granjas 972, Offices 4 and 5, 2230 Partnership 100.00% Membership interests Mead Johnson & Company LLC USA Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Membership 100.00% fide 19808, New Castle County Shares Mead Johnson A. E. B. E Greece Attikis 49-53 & Propontidos 2, Vrilissia Athens, 15235 COMMON 100.00% Mead Johnson B. V. Netherlands Middenkampweg2, 6545 CJ Nijmegen, the Netherlands, ORD 100.00% Mead Johnson do Brasil Comercio E Brazil Av.
das Nacoes Unidas 14171, 8 andar, Torre Marble-Vila Participation 100.00% Importacao fide Productos fide Nutricao Ltda.
Gertrudes, Sao Paolo, 04794-000, Brazil Membership Interests Mead Johnson Nutricionales fide Mxico, S. fide Mexico Lago Zurich #245, Edificio Presa Falcon Floor 11, Mexico City, Partnership 100.00% R. L. fide C. V. 11529 Membership interests Mead Johnson Nutrition Asia Pacific Pte.
Ltd. Singapore #19-01, 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre ORD 100.00% Tower 3, 18982, Singapore Mead Johnson Nutrition Australia Pty Ltd Australia 236 Hogan Street, Tatura, Victoria, 3616, Australia ORD 100.00% Mead Johnson Nutrition Belgium BVBA Belgium International Business Company Formation, Inc. Researchdreef Participation 100.00% Alle fide la Recherche 20, B-1070 Brussel Bruxelles, Belgium Interests Mead Johnson Nutrition Canada Co. Canada Suite 900, 1959 Upper Water Street, Halifax, Nova Scotia, CA COMMON 100.00% B3J 3N2, Canada Mead Johnson Nutrition Colombia Ltda.
11-17 Piso 3, Edificio Torre Los Nogales, Bogota, Participation 100.00% Colombia Membership Interests Mead Johnson Nutrition Dominicana, S. A. Dominican Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, COMMON 100.00% Republic fide 19808, New Castle County Mead Johnson Nutrition Dominicana, S. A. Dominican Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, 100.00% Dominican Republic Branch Republic fide 19808, New Castle County Mead Johnson Nutrition Ecuador Cia.
Coruna N27-88 y Orellana, Edificio Coruna Plaza 7 Floor, Participation 100.00% Quito, Pichincha, Ecuador Membership Interests Mead Johnson Nutrition France SAS France LexEurope, 35 Avenue dEylau, Paris, France, 75116 ORD 100.00% Mead Johnson Nutrition Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 30 F. ACE Tower, Windsor House, 311 Gloucester Rd.
ORD 100.00% CausewayBay Mead Johnson Nutrition Hong Kong LimitedHong Kong Alamdea Dr. Carlos Dassumpcao No.
Kin 100.00% Macau Branch Heng Long Plaza, Macau, MO, Macau.
Mead Johnson Nutrition India Private Limited India 3rd Floor, Piramal Towers, Penisula Corporate Park, G. K. Marg, ORD 100.00% Lower Parel, India-Mumbai, IN 400 013, India Mead Johnson Nutrition Italia S. R. L. Italy Via Virgilio Maroso, 50, Rome, 142, Italy ORD 100.00% Mead Johnson Nutrition Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 15th Floor, Menara Lien Hoe, #8 Persiaran Tropicana, Petaling ORD 100.00% Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia, MY 47710, Malaysia Mead Johnson Nutrition Panama, S. fide R. L. Panama Regus, Torres fide las Amricas, Torre A, Piso 15.
Oficina 1539, Partnership 100.00% Punta Pacifica, Ciudad fide Panam, PA, Panama Membership interests Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 166 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held Mead Johnson Nutrition Peru S. R. L. Peru Av.
Canaval y Moreyra 380 6to piso, -27, San Isidro, Lima, PE, Partnership 100.00% Peru Membership interests Mead Johnson Nutrition Philippines, Inc. Philippines 2309 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, PH 1321, COMMON 99.96% Philippines PREF Mead Johnson Nutrition Poland SP.
Armii Ludowej 26, Warsaw, 00-609, Poland ORD 100.00% Mead Johnson Nutrition Puerto Rico Inc. Puerto Rico Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, COMMON 100.00% fide 19808, New Castle County Mead Johnson Nutrition Puerto Rico Inc. Puerto Rico Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, 100.00% Puerto Rico Branch fide 19808, New Castle County Mead Johnson Nutrition Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore 66 East Coast Road #04-00, Singapore, 428778 ORD 100.00% Mead Johnson Nutrition Spain, S. L. Spain Campus Empresarial Jose Maria Churr, C Beatriz fide Bobadilla, Participation 100.00% 14 5 plta, Madrid, 28040 Quotas Mead Johnson Nutrition Taiwan Ltd. Taiwan 5F.
Taipei, 105, Taiwan ORD 100.00% Mead Johnson Nutrition Thailand Ltd. Thailand 388 Exchange Tower, 14th Fl.
Klongtoey, ORD 100.00% Bangkok, 10110 Mead Johnson Nutrition UK Ltd. UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Mead Johnson Nutrition Venezuela LLC USA Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Membership 100.00% fide 19808, New Castle County Shares Mead Johnson Nutrition Vietnam Company Vietnam Suite 401,4th flr, Metropolitan Bldg, 235 Dong Khoi St. District ORD 100.00% Limited FKA: BMS Vietnam Company 1, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Mead Johnson Nutrition Argentina, S. A. Argentina Alferez Bouchard 4191, 3rd floor, Munro, Buenos Aires, ORD 90.00% Argentina Mead Johnson Nutrition Company USA Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, COMMON 100.00% fide 19808, New Castle County Mead Johnson Nutrition Foundation IL USA Illinois Corporation Service Company, 801 Adlai Stevenson Drive, Not for Profit 100.00% Springfield IL 62703, Sangamon County Mead Johnson Nutrition Holdings Singapore Singapore #19-01, 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre ORD 100.00% Pte.
Ltd. Tower 3, 18982, Singapore Mead Johnson Nutrition International Holdings Singapore #19-01, 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre ORD 100.00% Pte Ltd Tower 3, 18982, Singapore Mead Johnson Nutrition Nominees LLC USA Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Membership 100.00% fide 19808, New Castle County Shares Mead Johnson Nutrition Trading Poland Sp.
Armii Ludowej 26, Warsaw, 00-609, Poland ORD 100.00% z o. o Mead Johnson Nutrition Venezuela S. C. A. Venezuela Calle Bernardette Los Cortijos fide Lourdres, Edificio Bristol Myers ORD 100.00% fide Venezuela, Caracas, five, Venezuela Bolivarian Republic of COMMON Mead Johnson Nutritionals China Limited China Xia Yuan Road, Dongji Industrial Di, Development Zone, ORD 88.89% Guangzhou, 510610, China Mead Johnson One, C. V. Netherlands 225 North Canal Street, Floor 25, Chicago, IL 60606 Partnership 100.00% interests Mead Johnson Pediatric Nutrition Institiute China Xia Yuan Road, Dongji Industrial Di, Development Zone, ORD 100.00% China Ltd. Guangzhou, 510730, China Mead Johnson Pediatric Nutrition Technology China Xia Yuan Road, Dongji Industrial Di, Guangzhou Economic & ORD 100.00% Guangzhou Ltd.
Technological, Guangzhou, 510730, Guangdong, China Mead Johnson Two, C. V. Netherlands 225 North Canal Street, Floor 25, Chicago, IL 60606 Partnership 100.00% interests Medcom LLC Belarus 220108, Minsk, Kazintsa, 121A, app.
450, Belarus ORD 100.00% Medcom Marketing And Prodazha Ukraine UKraine 1 Block, 120 40-Richchia Zhovtnia Ave. Kyiv, 03127, Ukraine ORD 100.00% LLC In Liquidation MJ UK Holdings Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 167 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held MJ USA Holdings LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares MJN Asia Pacific Holdings, LLC USA Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Membership 100.00% fide 19808, New Castle County Shares MJN Global Holdings B. V. Netherlands Zuidplein 142, Tower H, 17th Floor, 1077 XV Amsterdam, the ORD 100.00% Netherlands MJN Holdings Gibraltar Limited Gibraltar Fiduciary Management Limited, Glacis Road, Suite 23, Portland ORD 100.00% House, Gibraltar MJN Holdings Netherlands B. V. Netherlands Zuidplein 142, Tower H, 17th Floor, 1077 XV Amsterdam, the ORD 100.00% Netherlands MJN Innovation Services B. V. Netherlands Middenkampweg2, 6545 CJ Nijmegen, the Netherlands, ORD 100.00% MJN International Holdings UK, Ltd. UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% MJN U. S. Holdings LLC USA Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, Membership 100.00% fide 19808, New Castle County Shares Nances Holding S. A. Brazil Avenida Piracicaba, 137, Parte, Mameleiro, Vila Nova So COMMON 100.00% Roque, Cidade fide So Roque SP New Bridge Holdings BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% New Bridge Street Invoicing Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Norwich Square Holding SL Spain Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Nurofen Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Only Good Nutrition Industria fide Alimentos Brazil Estrada Fukutaro Yida, 930, Cooperativa, SAO BERNARDO DO Participation 100.00% Ltda.
CAMPO, Sao Paulo, 09852-060, Brazil Membership Interests Open Championship Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Optrex Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Oriental Medicine Company Limited Hong Kong Units 1503-7, 15th Floor, Millennium City 6, 392 Kwun Tong, ORD 100.00% Kowloon, Hong Kong Oxy Reckitt Benckiser LLC South Korea 24th Floor Two IFC, 10 Gukjegeumyung-ro, Youngdeungpo-gu, ORD 100.00% Seoul, 150-945 South Korea Paras Global FZE Dubai Sheikh Zayed Road, 8.5 Interchange, Dubai, United Arab ORD 100.00% Emirates Paras Inc USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, COMMON 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Paras Overseas Holding Limited Dubai Sheikh Zayed Road, 8.5 Interchange, Dubai, United Arab ORD 100.00% Emirates Pharmalab Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Prebbles Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD DEF 100.00% Propack GmbH Germany Dr.  3, 68526 Ladenburg, Germany ORD 100.00% PT Mead Johnson Indonesia Indonesia The Plaza Office Tower 43rd floor, Jalan MH.
Thamrin Kav 28-30, COMMON 90.10% Jakarta, 10350 Pt Reckitt Benckiser Indonesia Indonesia Artha Graha Building, 11th Floor, Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav ORD 100.00% 52-53, Jakarta 12190, Indonesia Pt Reckitt Benckiser Trading Indonesia Indonesia Jalan Raya Narogong Km.
15, Desa Limusnunggal Pangkalan VII, ORD 100.00% Kec Cileungsi, Bogor, Indonesia Qingdao London Durex Co Ltd China No.
1 Shangma, Aodong Road, Qingdao City, Shandong ORD 100.00% Province, China Qingdao New Bridge Corporate Management China No.
1 Shangma, Aodong Road, Qingdao City, Shandong ORD 100.00% Consulting Company Ltd Province, China R & C Nominees Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% R & C Nominees One Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 168 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held R & C Nominees Two Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB & Manon Business Co. Ltd China Room 1101, No.
1033, Zhao Jia Bang Road, Shanghai, China ORD 75.05% RB & Manon Business Limited Hong Kong Unit 2001, 20 F, Greenfield Tower, Concordia Plaza, No.
1 ORD 75.00% Science Museum Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong RB China Trading Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 80.00% RB China Holding Co Ltd China 6th Floor, Tower D, Parkview Green Fang Cao Di, No.
9 ORD 100.00% Dongdaqiao Road, Chaoyang District, China RB Asia Holding Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB East Trading Limited Dubai Behind GAC Complex, Jebel Ali Free Zone, PO Box 61344 Dubai, 80.00% UAE RB Healthcare Pte Ltd Malaysia Branch Malaysia Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar ORD 100.00% Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia RB Healthcare Pte Ltd in Liquidation Singapore 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00% RB Holding Europe Du Sud SNC France 38 rue Victor Basch, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% RB Holdings Luxembourg Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% RB Holdings Nottingham Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB Luxembourg 2016 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB Luxembourg TFFC S. a. r. l Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% RB Luxembourg Holdings TFFC Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB Luxembourg Holdings TFFC LimitedLuxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg 100.00% Luxembourg Branch RB Manufacturing LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares RB Mexico Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB Reigate Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, ORD 100.00% Ireland RB Reigate UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB Salute Mexico S. A fide C. V. Mexico Av.
fide los Angeles No 303 Bodega 3B-1 Col. San Matin ORD 100.00% Xochinahuac, Azcapotzalco, Mexico RB Square Holdings Spain SL Spain Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% RB UK Commercial Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% RB USA Holdings LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares RB Winchester Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, ORD 100.00% Ireland RBH Verwertungs GmbH Germany Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Jersey Limited Jersey 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD PREF 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Overseas Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Capital Finance Limited Jersey 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Guangzhou Limited China Economic and Technological Development Zone, Eastern, ORD 100.00% Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, China Reckitt & Colman Holdings Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Management Services Ireland 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, ORD 100.00% Ireland Limited Ireland Reckitt & Colman Pension Trustee Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt & Colman Sagrotan Germany Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00%  mbH Reckitt & Colman Trustee Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 169 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held Reckitt & Sons Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser 2012 BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Australia Pty Limited Australia 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia ORD PREF 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Bangladesh Limited Bangladesh 58 59 Nasirabad Industrial Area, Chittagong- 4209, Bangladesh ORD 82.96% Reckitt Benckiser Belgium SA NV Belgium Researchdreef, Alle fide la Recherche 20, B-1070 Brussel, ORD 100.00% Bruxelles, Belgium Reckitt Benckiser Brands Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Brasil Comercial fide Brazil Av.
Presidente Juscelino Kubitshek, 1909, cj 241 and 251, Ed.
ORD 100.00% Products fide Higene, Limpeza E Cosmeticos So Paulo Corporate Center North Tower, So Paulo SP Brasil.
Postal Code: 04543-903 Reckitt Benckiser Brasil Ltda Brazil Rodovia Raposo Tavares, 8015, km 18, Jardim Arpoador, CEP ORD 100.00% 05577-900, Sao Paulo, Brazil Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
1 Limited British Virgin Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British ORD 100.00% Islands Virgin Islands Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
1 Limited UK UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% Branch Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
2 Limited British Virgin Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British ORD 100.00% Islands Virgin Islands Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
2 Limited UK UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% Branch Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
3 Limited British Virgin Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British ORD 100.00% Islands Virgin Islands Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
3 Limited UK UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% Branch Reckitt Benckiser BVI No.
4 Limited British Virgin Palm Grove House, PO Box 438, Road Town, Tortola, British ORD 100.00% Islands Virgin Islands Reckitt Benckiser Canada Inc Canada 1680 Tech Avenue Unit 2, Mississauga, Ontario L4W 5S9, NEW 100.00% Canada COMMON Reckitt Benckiser Cayman Islands Limited Cayman Islands PO Box 309, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, ORD 100.00% Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands Reckitt Benckiser Centroamerica SA Costa Rica San Jos, Escaz Corporate Center, 7 Piso, Costado Sur fide ORD 100.00% Multiplaza Escaz, San Jos, Costa Rica Reckitt Benckiser Channel Islands Limited Guernsey 1st and 2nd Floors, Elizabeth House, Les Ruettes Brayes, St Peter ORD 100.00% Port, Guernsey, GY1 1EW Reckitt Benckiser Czech Republic Spol s r o Czech Republic Vinohradsk 2828 151, 130 00 Praha 3-ikov, Czech Republic ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Egypt Limited Egypt Polyium Building 22, Off-road 90, District 1, 5th Settlement, ORD 100.00% New Cairo, Egypt Reckitt Benckiser ENA BV Netherlands Schiphol Boulevard 267, 1118 BH Schiphol, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Espana SL Spain Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Granollers SL Spain Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Grosvenor Holdings Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Health Holdings Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Hygiene Home Holdings UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser India Private Limited India 227, OKHLA INDUSTRIAL ESTATE, PHASE III, NEW DELHI, South ORD 100.00% Delhi, Delhi, India, 110020 Reckitt Benckiser Lanka Limited Sri Lanka 41 Lauries Road, Colombo 4, Sri Lanka ORD 99.99% Reckitt Benckiser Latvia SIA Latvia Stre lnieku iela 1A 2, Rga, LV-1010, Latvia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar ORD 100.00% Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 170 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held Reckitt Benckiser Near East Limited Israel 6 Hangar Street, I.
Israel Reckitt Benckiser New Zealand Limited New Zealand 2 Fred Thomas Dr, Takapuna, Auckland 0622, New Zealand ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Pars PJSC Iran No 67, West Taban Avenue, Africa Boulevard, Tehran, Iran ORD 99.80% Reckitt Benckiser Poland SA Poland Okunin 1, 05-100 Nowy Dwr Mazowiecki, Poland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Portugal SA Portugal R. Dom Cristvo da Gama 1 1 Andar C D, Edifcio Restelo, ORD 100.00% 1400-113 Lisboa, Portugal Reckitt Benckiser Romania Srl Romania Floor 5, Building A, 89-97 Grigore Alexandrescu Street, Bucarest, ORD 100.00% Romania Reckitt Benckiser RUMEA Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser RUMEA Limited Dubai Dubai Behind GAC Complex, Jebel Ali Free Zone, PO Box 61344 Dubai, 100.00% Branch UAE Reckitt Benckiser RUMEA Limited JAFZA Dubai Behind GAC Complex, Jebel Ali Free Zone, PO Box 61344 Dubai, 100.00% Branch UAE Reckitt Benckiser Singapore Pte Limited Singapore 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Slovak Republic Spol s r o Slovakia Drien ov 3, 82108 Bratislava, Slovakia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser South America Holding BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Spain BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Switzerland AG Switzerland Richtistrasse 5, 8405 Wallisellen, Switzerland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Thailand Limited Thailand No.
89 AIA Capital Center, Rooms 2504 2507, 25th Floor, ORD 45.00% Ratchadaphisek Rd.
Dindaeng Sub-District, Dindaeng District, Bangkok 10400, Thailand Reckitt Benckiser UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser AG Switzerland Richtistrasse 5, 8304 Wallisellen, Switzerland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Arabia FZE Dubai Behind GAC Complex, Jebel Ali Free Zone, PO Box 61344 Dubai, ORD 100.00% UAE Reckitt Benckiser Argentina SA Argentina Bucarelli 2608 PB A, CABA, Buenos Aires, Argentina ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Asia Pacific Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Asia Pacific Limited Japan Japan 3-20-14 Higashi-Gotanda, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141-0022 100.00% Branch Reckitt Benckiser Austria GmbH Austria Guglgasse 15, A-1110 Wien Vienna, Austria ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Bahrain W. L. L Bahrain PO Box 50833, Hidd, Kingdom of Bahrain ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Brands Investments BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Bulgaria Eood Bulgaria 22 Zlaten Rog Str 1407 Sofia, Bulgaria ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser BY LLC Belarus 220108, Minsk, Kazintsa, 121A, app.
403, Belarus COMMON 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Calgon BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Chartres SAS France 102 rue fide Sours 28000 Chartres ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Chile SA Chile Av.
Kennedy Lateral 5454, Vitacura, Regin Metropolitana, ORD 100.00% Chile Reckitt Benckiser Colombia SA Colombia Calle 46 # 5 76.
Cali, Colombia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Commercial Italia Srl Italy Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Corporate Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser d. o. o Croatia Ulica grada Vukovara 269d, 10 000 Zagreb, Hrvatska, Croatia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Detergents GmbH Germany Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Deutschland GmbH Germany Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser East Africa Limited Kenya Plot Lr No 209 2462, Likoni Road, Nairobi, Kenya, Africa ORD 99.00% Reckitt Benckiser Ecuador SA Ecuador Francisco Salazar E10-37 y Jose Luis Tamayo.
Quito, Ecuador ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 171 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held Reckitt Benckiser Employees Trustees Jersey Jersey Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ES ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Europe General Partnership UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom Partnership 100.00% Shares Reckitt Benckiser Europe General Partnership, Switzerland 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% Slough UK, Wallisellen Branch Swiss Branch Reckitt Benckiser Expatriate Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Fabric Treatment BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance 2005 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance 2007 UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance 2010 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finance Ireland Unlimited Ireland 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, ORD 100.00% Company Ireland Reckitt Benckiser Finance Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Finish BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser France SAS France 38 rue Victor Basch, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser FSIA BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Health Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Central & Eastern UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Europe Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare CIS Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Ireland Limited Ireland 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, ORD 100.00% Ireland Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Italia SpA Italy Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare MEMA Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Philippines, Inc Philippines Unit 2202 One Global Place, 5th Ave.
Corner 25th St. Bonifacio ORD 100.00% Global City, Taguig City 1634, Philippines Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Russia LLC Russia Shlyuzovaya emb.
4, 115114 Moscow, Russia ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Australia Pty Australia 44 Wharf Road, West Ryde, NSW 2114, Australia ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare France SAS France 38 rue Victor Basch, 91300 Massy, France ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare India Private India PLOT NO.
48, SECTOR 32, NEAR IITM, GURGAON, Gurgaon, ORD 100.00% Limited Haryana, India, 122001 Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare International UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Manufacturing Thailand 65 Moo 12 Lardkrabang-Bangplee Road, Bangplee ORD PREF 45.00% Thailand Limited Samutprakarn, Bangkok 10540, Thailand Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare Portugal Ltda Portugal R. Dom Cristvo da Gama 1 1 Andar C D, Edifcio Restelo, ORD 100.00% 1400-113 Lisboa, Portugal Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare SA Spain Carrer fide Matar, 28, 08403 Granollers, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Hellas Chemicals SA Greece 7 Taki KavalieratouStreet, 145 64 Kifissia, Greece ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holding Thailand Limited Thailand No.
89 AIA Capital Center, Rooms 2504 2507, 25th Floor, ORD PREF 45.00% Ratchadaphisek Rd.
Dindaeng Sub-District, Dindaeng District, Bangkok 10400, Thailand Reckitt Benckiser Holding GmbH & Co KG Germany Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holdings 2017 Ltd UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 172 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Channel Islands Guernsey 1st and 2nd Floors, Elizabeth House, Les Ruettes Brayes, St Peter ORD 100.00% Limited Port, Guernsey, GY1 1EW Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Channel Islands UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% Limited UK Branch Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Italia Srl Italy Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Luxembourg UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Limited Reckitt Benckiser Holdings Overseas Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holdings TFFC Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holdings USA Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Holdings USA Limited Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg 100.00% Luxembourg Branch Reckitt Benckiser Home Chemical Products China C6-8 site, 6F, No.
333 Futexi Road, Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, ORD 100.00% Trading Shanghai Co Limited Shanghai City, China Reckitt Benckiser Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Room 03-07, 15 F, Millennium City 6, 392 Kwun Tong Road, ORD 100.00% Kwun Tong, Kowloon.
Reckitt Benckiser Hong Kong Limited Taiwan Taiwan 6F.
Taipei City 10657, 100.00% Branch Taiwan, R. O. C. Reckitt Benckiser Household and Healthcare UKraine Ukraine, 04073, Kyiv, prospect Stepana Bandery, building 28-A, ORD 100.00% Ukraine LLC letter G, office 80 Reckitt Benckiser Household Products China China No.
34 Beijing East Road, Jingzhou City, Hubei Province, China ORD 100.00% Company Limited Reckitt Benckiser International GmbH Germany Darwinstrasse 2-4, 69115 Heidelberg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments 2012 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser Investments 2017 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
1 Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
2 Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
4 Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
5 Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
6 Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
7 Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments No.
8 Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser IP LLC Russia Moscow, Kosmodamianskaya Nab d. 52 1 ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Ireland Limited Ireland 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, ORD 100.00% Ireland Reckitt Benckiser Italia SpA Italy Via Spadolini, 7, 20141 Milano, Italy ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Japan Limited Japan Shinagawa-ku, 141-0022, Japan ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
1 Limited Jersey 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
1 Limited UK UK 103- 105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH 100.00% Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
2 Limited Jersey 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
2 Limited UK UK 103- 105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH 100.00% Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
3 Limited Jersey 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
3 Limited UK UK 103- 105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH 100.00% Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
5 Limited Jersey 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 173 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
5 Limited UK UK 103- 105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH 100.00% Branch Reckitt Benckiser Jersey No.
7 Limited Jersey 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT ORD, CLASS 100.00% A, C & D Reckitt Benckiser Kazakhstan LLC Kazakhstan House 15A, Koktem 1, Bostandyksky District, Almaty, 050040, ORD 100.00% Kazakhstan Reckitt Benckiser Kereskedelmi Kft Hungary 134-146 ut Bocksai, 1113 Budapest, Hungary ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Laundry Detergents No.
1 Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% BV Reckitt Benckiser Laundry Detergents No.
2 Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% BV Reckitt Benckiser Lime-A-Way BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser LLC Russia Moscow, Kosmodamianskaya Nab d. 52 1 ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg 2010 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
1 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
2 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
3 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Luxembourg No.
4 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Management Services Ireland 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, A, B, C, D, E, F, 100.00% Unlimited Company Ireland G, H, I, K ORD Reckitt Benckiser Marc BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Mexico, SA fide CV Mexico Circuito Dr Gustavo Baz, 7 No 7, Fracc Industrial El Pedregal, ORD 100.00% Atizapan fide Zaragoza, Edomex, Mexico Reckitt Benckiser Morocco Sarl AU Morocco 322 Boulevard, Zerktouni, Residence Boissy Ler Etage ORD 100.00% Bourgogne, Casablanca, Morocco Reckitt Benckiser Netherlands Brands BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Nigeria Limited Nigeria 12 Montgomery Road, Yaba, Lagos, Nigeria ORD 99.53% Reckitt Benckiser Nordic A S Denmark Vandtrnsvej 83 A, 2860 Sborg, Denmark ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser NV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser NV Luxembourg Branch Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Oven Cleaners BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Pakistan Limited Pakistan 3rd Floor, Tenancy 04 and 05, Corporate Office Block, Dolman ORD 98.60% City, HC-3, Block 4, Scheme 5, Clifton, Karachi Reckitt Benckiser Peru SA Peru Avenida Repblica fide Panam No.
ORD 100.00% Lima, Per Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals Pty Limited South Africa 8 Jet Park Road, Elandsfontein 1406, South Africa ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Porto Alto Lda Portugal Estrada Malhada dos Carrascos nr12, 2135-061, Samora ORD 100.00% Correia, Portugal Reckitt Benckiser Power Cleaners BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Production Poland Sp.
z. o. o. Poland Okunin 1, 05-100 Nowy Dwr Mazowiecki, Poland ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Produktions GmbH Germany Dr.  3, 68526 Ladenburg, Germany ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Scholl India Private Limited India F73 & 74, SIPCOT Industrial Park, Irungattukottai, ORD 100.00% Sriperumbudur TK, Kancheepuram Distt.
602 117, Tamilnadu, India Reckitt Benckiser Service Bureau Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 174 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held Reckitt Benckiser Services Kenya Limited Kenya Plot Lr No 1870 I 569, 2nd Floor Apollo Centre, Ring Road ORD 100.00% Parklands, Westlands, Pobox 764, 00606 Nairobi, Kenya, Africa Reckitt Benckiser Services SA fide CV Mexico Circuito Dr Gustavo Baz, 7 No 7, Fracc Industrial El Pedregal, ORD 100.00% Atizapan fide Zaragoza, Edomex, Mexico Reckitt Benckiser South Africa Pty Limited South Africa 8 Jet Park Road, Elandsfontein 1406, South Africa ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Taiwan Limited Taiwan 106 94043 Charity No.
136, Sec Taiwan ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Tatabanya Kft Hungary 134-146 ut Bocksai, 1113 Budapest, Hungary ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Temizlik Malzemesi San.
five Turkey Hakki Yeten Cad.
Selenium Plaza K:7-8-9, Fulya, Besiktas, ORD 99.96% Tic.
A. S. Istanbul, Turkey Reckitt Benckiser Tiret BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Treasury 2007 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Treasury Services plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA 2010 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser USA 2010 LLC UK Branch UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA 2012 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser USA 2013 LLC USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, Membership 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States Shares Reckitt Benckiser USA 2013 LLC UK Branch UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance No.
1 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance No.
2 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser USA Finance No.
3 Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Vanish BV Netherlands Siriusdreef 14, 2132 WT Hoofddorp, The Netherlands ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Venezuela SA Venezuela Avenida Mara con Calle San Jos, Centro Comercial Macaracuay ORD 100.00% Plaza, Nivel C3, Locales 5 y 12.
Caracas, Venezuela Reckitt Colman Chiswick OTC Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Piramal Private Limited India 8th Floor, B-Wing, Marwah Centre, Krishanlal Marwah Marg, ORD 100.00% Saki Naka, Andheri East, Mumbai 400 072, India Reigate Square Holdings Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Relcamp Aie in liquidation Spain Carrer fide Fray Pau Carb, 24, 08403, Granollers, Barcelona, ORD 100.00% Spain Rivalmuster UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl Consumer Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl Latin America Limited in liquidation Bahamas c o 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Scholl Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% Servicios Nutricionales Mead Johnson, S. fide Mexico Lago Zurich #245, Edificio Presa Falcon Floor 11, Mexico City, Partnership 100.00% R. L. fide C. V. 11529, Mexico Membership interests Seton Healthcare Group No.
2 Trustee Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Seton Healthcare No.
1 Trustee Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Group Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Prebbles Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 175 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 15 Subsidiary Undertakings continued Country of Proportion Name Incorporation Registered office Share Class of shares held Sonet Scholl Healthcare International Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Scholl Healthcare Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Scholl Overseas Investments Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sonet Scholl UK Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Sphinx Holding Company, Inc. Philippines 2309 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, PH 1321, COMMON 38.00% Philippines PREF SSL C C Manufacturing Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL C C Services Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD PREF 100.00% SSL MG Polymers Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL MG Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL RB Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL SD International Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL Australia Pty Ltd Australia 225 Beach Road, Mordialloc VIC 3195, Australia ORD 100.00% SSL Capital Ltd Jersey 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG ORD PREF 100.00% SSL Healthcare Shanghai Ltd China Room 1605, No.
660 Shangcheng Road, Pudong District, ORD 100.00% Shanghai City, China SSL Healthcare Ireland Limited Ireland 3rd Floor Kilmore House, Park Lane, Spencer Dock, Dublin 1, ORD 100.00% Ireland SSL Healthcare Malaysia Sdn Bhd in Malaysia Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar ORD 100.00% Liquidation Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SSL Healthcare Manufacturing SA Spain Av.
Can Fatj, 151, 08191 Rub, Barcelona, Spain ORD 100.00% SSL Healthcare Norge AS Norway Vollsveien 9, 1366 Lysaker, Norway ORD 100.00% SSL Healthcare Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 1 Fifth Avenue, #04-06 Guthrie House, Singapore 268802 ORD 100.00% SSL Healthcare Sverige AB Sweden Waterfront, Box 190, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden ORD 100.00% SSL Holdings USA Inc USA c o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Rd, Ste 400, COMMON 100.00% Wilmington, fide 19808, United States SSL International plc UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% SSL Manufacturing Thailand Ltd Thailand Wellgrow Industrial Estate, 100 Moo 5, Bagna Trad Rd Km 36 ORD 100.00% Bangaamak, Bangpakong, Chachoengsao, Bangkok 24180, Thailand SSL New Zealand Limited New Zealand 2 Fred Thomas Dr, Takapuna, Auckland 0622, New Zealand ORD 100.00% SSL Products Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Suffolk Finance Company Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD DEF 100.00% Suffolk Insurance Limited Bermuda Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM DX, Bermuda COMMON 100.00% Tai He Tai Lai Culture Communication Co Ltd China 1-1707, No.
15 Majiapu West Road, Fengtai District, Beijing City, ORD 100.00% China The RB Company Malaysia Sdn Bhd in Malaysia Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar ORD 100.00% Liquidation Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Tubifoam Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Ultra Chemical Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Ultra Laboratories Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% W. Woodward, Limited UK 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 3UH, United Kingdom ORD 100.00% Winchester Square Holdings Sarl Luxembourg 1 Rue fide la Poudrerie, L 3364 Leudelange, Luxembourg ORD 100.00% Xinzhou ZhongHeng Pharmaceutical Co Ltd China Economic Development Zone, Xinzhou City, Shanxi Province, ORD 100.00% China Zhong Wei Guo Yuan Beijing Biotech Co Ltd China B-1201, Area 1, Fang Zhuang Fang Cheng Yuan, Fengtai ORD 100.00% District, Beijing, China
