Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Corporate information 1.1 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Direct Line Insurance Group plc is a public limited company statements of the Company and the entities that are controlled registered in England and Wales company number by the Group at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 02280426.
The address of the registered office is Churchill 2016.
Control exists when the Group is exposed, or has Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR11DP, England.
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity 1.
Accounting policies and has the ability to affect those returns through its power Basis of preparation over the entity.
In assessing if the Group controls another As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of entity, the existence and effect of the potential voting rights the IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements are that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Where necessary, adjustments have been made to the as issued by the IASB.
The Companys financial statements financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting have been prepared in accordance with and full compliance policies used into line with those used by the Group.
with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the years ended 31 December 2017 and The consolidated financial statements are prepared on 31 December 2016 to items considered material to the the historical cost basis except for AFS financial assets, consolidated financial statements.
investment property and derivative financial instruments, which are measured at fair value.
A subsidiary acquired is included in the consolidated financial The Companys financial statements and the consolidated statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the the date the Group ceases to control it.
On acquisition of functional currency of the Company.
a subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements Adoption of new and revised standards at fair value.
The Group has adopted the following new amendments All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses to IFRSs and the IASs that became mandatorily effective between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
for the Group for the first time during 2017 however these have no impact on the consolidated financial statements 1.2 Foreign currencies or performance.
The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows require in sterling which is the presentational currency of the Group.
an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial Group entities record transactions in the currency of the statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from primary economic environment in which they operate their financing activities, including both changes arising from functional currency, translated at the foreign exchange rate cash flows and non-cash changes.
On initial application ruling at the date of the transaction.
of the amendment, entities are not required to provide Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies comparative information.
are translated into the relevant functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign The IASB amended IAS 12 Income Taxes Recognition of exchange differences arising on the settlement of foreign currency Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses to clarify how to transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and account for deferred tax assets related to debt instruments liabilities are reported in the income statement.
measured at fair value, particularly where changes in the market interest rate decrease the fair value of a debt instrument Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are below cost.
The amendments clarify that an entity needs to stated at fair value are translated into the relevant functional consider whether tax law restricts the sources of taxable profits currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the against which it may make deductions on the reversal of that values are determined.
Translation differences arising on nondeductible temporary difference.
Furthermore, the amendments monetary items measured at fair value are recognised in the provide guidance on how an entity should determine future income statement except for differences arising on AFS nontaxable profits and explain the circumstances in which taxable monetary financial assets, which are recognised in other profit may include the recovery of some assets for more than comprehensive income.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities the and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated amendment clarifies that the disclosure requirements of into sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance IFRS 12 are applicable to entities classified as held for sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign operations are sale or distribution.
translated into sterling at average exchange rates unless these do not approximate the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amount accumulated in equity is reclassified from equity to the consolidated income statement on disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation.
COM 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services Fees in respect of services for vehicle recovery are recognised 1.3 Contract classification as the right to consideration, and accrue through the provision Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally the insurer has accepted significant insurance risk from contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate as the service is rendered.
The price is usually fixed and the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event always determinable.
the insured event adversely affects the policyholder.
The Groups income also comprises vehicle repair services Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, provided to other third-party customers.
Income in respect it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, of repairs to vehicles is recognised upon completion of the even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this service.
The price is determined using market rates for the period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished.
services and materials used after discounts have been 1.4 Revenue recognition deducted where applicable.
Premiums earned Other income Insurance and reinsurance premiums comprise the total Commission fee income in respect of services is recognised premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided when a policy has been placed and incepted.
Income is by contracts incepted during the financial year, adjusted by an stated excluding applicable sales taxes.
unearned premium provision, which represents the proportion of the premiums incepted in the year or prior periods that relate Legal services revenue represents the amount charged to clients to periods of insurance cover after the balance sheet date.
for professional services provided during the year including Unearned premiums are calculated over the period of exposure recovery of expenses but excluding value added tax.
Revenue under the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for is only recognised once services have been provided and the estimated incidence of exposure under policies.
certainty exists as to the outcome of the respective cases.
Premiums collected by intermediaries or other parties, 1.5 Insurance claims but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from Insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in underwriting or past experience, and are included in insurance which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the full cost of premiums.
Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including tax or equivalent local taxes and are shown gross of any claims incurred but not yet reported at that date, net of salvage commission payable to intermediaries or other parties.
Outstanding claims provisions are not discounted for the time value of money except for claims Cash back payments to policyholders under motor telematics to be settled by PPOs established under the Courts Act 2003. policies represent a reduction in earned premiums.
A court can award damages for future pecuniary loss in Investment return respect of personal injury or for other damages in respect of Interest income on financial assets is determined using the personal injury and may order that the damages are wholly effective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate method or partly to take the form of PPOs.
These are covered in more is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset detail in note 2.4.
Costs for both direct and indirect claims or group of financial assets and of allocating the interest handling expenses are also included.
income over the expected life of the asset.
Provisions are determined by management based on Rental income from investment property is recognised in the experience of claims settled and on statistical models income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of which require certain assumptions to be made regarding the contract.
Any gains or losses arising from a change in the incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific fair value are recognised in the income statement.
factors such as adverse weather conditions.
When calculating the total provision required, the historical development of Instalment income claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, Instalment income comprises the interest income earned on within acceptable probability parameters, the value of policyholder receivables, where outstanding premiums are settled outstanding claims gross and net at the balance sheet by a series of instalment payments.
Interest is earned using date.
Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are an effective interest rate method over the term of the policy.
factors such as the potential for judicial or legislative inflation.
Other operating income Provisions for more recent claims make use of techniques that Vehicle replacement referral income incorporate expected loss ratios and average claims cost Vehicle replacement referral income comprises fees in respect adjusted for inflation and frequency methods.
As claims of referral income received when a customer or a non-fault mature, the provisions are increasingly driven by methods policyholder claimant of another insurer has been provided based on actual claims experience.
The approach adopted with a hire vehicle from a preferred supplier.
takes into account the nature, type and significance of the business and the type of data available, with large claims Income is recognised immediately when the customer generally being assessed separately.
The data used for or claimant is provided with the hire vehicle.
statistical modelling purposes is generated internally and reconciled to the accounting data.
118 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The calculation is particularly sensitive to the estimation of 1.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets the ultimate cost of claims for the particular classes of business Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an at gross and net levels and the estimation of future claims acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value handling costs.
Actual claims experience may differ from the of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities historical pattern on which the ABE is based and the cost of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired, is of settling individual claims may exceed that assumed.
As a initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less any result, the Group sets provisions at a margin above the ABE.
Goodwill arising on the This amount is recorded within claims provisions.
acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is included in the balance sheet category goodwill and A liability adequacy provision is made for unexpired risks other intangible assets.
The gain or loss on the disposal arising where the expected value of claims and expenses of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the carrying value of any related goodwill.
balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium reserve in relation to such policies after the deduction of any acquisition Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated costs deferred and other prepaid amounts for example, at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The expected value is determined by reference Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the to recent experience and allowing for changes to the premium assets economic lives using methods that best reflect the rates.
The provision for unexpired risks is calculated separately pattern of economic benefits and is included in operating by reference to classes of business that are managed together expenses.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: after taking account of relevant investment returns.
Software development costs Up to 10 years 1.6 Reinsurance Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is The Group has reinsurance treaties and other reinsurance written off as incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
of internal-use computer software and associated business The Group cedes insurance risk by reinsurance in the normal processes are capitalised once technical feasibility and course of business, with the arrangement and retention limits economic viability have been established.
These costs include varying by product line.
Outward reinsurance premiums are payroll costs, the costs of materials and services and directly generally accounted for in the same accounting period as attributable overheads.
Capitalisation of costs ceases when the the premiums for the related direct business being reinsured.
software is capable of operating as intended.
During and after Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
against the projected benefits that the software is expected to generate.
Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred, companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
Amounts recoverable as are all training costs and general overheads.
from reinsurers are estimated in a consistent manner with the outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with 1.9 Property, plant and equipment the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant Items of property, plant and equipment except investment reinsurance contract.
Recoveries in respect of PPOs are property note 1.11 are stated at cost less accumulated discounted for the time value of money.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components A reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed in respect of having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.
reinsurance debtors, to allow for the risk that the reinsurance asset may not be collected or where the reinsurers credit rating Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straighthas been downgraded significantly and this is taken as an line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount of property, indication of a reinsurers difficulty in meeting its obligations plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives.
The under the reinsurance contracts.
This also includes an depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value.
assessment in respect of the ceded part of claims provisions Land is not depreciated.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: to reflect the counterparty default risk exposure to long-term Freehold and leasehold 50 years or the period reinsurance assets particularly in relation to PPOs.
Increases buildings of the lease if shorter in this provision affect the Group by reducing the carrying value of the asset and the impairment loss is recognised in Vehicles 3 years the income statement.
Computer equipment Up to 5 years 1.7 Deferred acquisition costs Acquisition costs relating to new and renewing insurance policies Other equipment, including 2 to 15 years are matched with the earning of the premiums to which they property adaptation costs relate.
A proportion of acquisition costs incurred during the year is therefore deferred to the subsequent accounting period to The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of match the extent to which premiums written during the year property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference are unearned at the balance sheet date.
between the disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the item.
The principal acquisition costs deferred are direct advertising expenditure, directly attributable administration costs, commission paid and costs associated with telesales and underwriting staff.
COM 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued income statement, together with interest calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Other changes in the fair value 1.10 Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and property, of AFS financial assets are reported in a separate component plant and equipment of shareholders equity until disposal, when the cumulative At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
any indication that its intangible assets, goodwill or property, plant and equipment are impaired.
If any such indication A financial asset is regarded as quoted in an active market exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an asset and the impairment loss, if any.
Goodwill is tested for exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
If an asset regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length does not generate cash flows that are independent of those basis.
The appropriate quoted market price for an asset held of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is usually the current bid price.
When current bid prices are is determined for the cash-generating unit CGU to which unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction provides the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the evidence of the current fair value as long as there has not been higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
a significant change in economic circumstances since the time Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the of the transaction.
If conditions have changed since the time of asset or CGU, discounted at a rate that reflects market interest the transaction for example, a change in the risk-free interest rates, adjusted for risks specific to the asset or CGU that have rate following the most recent price quote for a corporate not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows.
bond, the fair value reflects the change in conditions by reference to current prices or rates for similar financial If the recoverable amount of an intangible or a tangible asset instruments, as appropriate.
The valuation methodology is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised described above uses observable market data.
immediately in the income statement and the carrying value of the asset is reduced by the amount of the impairment loss.
If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes the fair value by using a valuation technique.
A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets or Valuation techniques include using recent arms length market property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises transactions between knowledgeable and willing parties provided the increased carrying value does not exceed the if available, reference to the current fair value of another carrying amount that would have been determined had no instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow impairment loss been recognised.
Impairment losses on analysis and option pricing models.
If there is a valuation goodwill are not reversed.
technique commonly used by market participants to price 1.11 Investment property the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to Investment property comprises freehold and leasehold provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital transactions, the Group uses that technique.
Investment property is not depreciated, HTM but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent Non-derivative financial assets not designated as AFS or loans registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices for and receivables with fixed or determinable payments and fixed similar properties adjusted for the specific characteristics of maturity where the intention and ability to hold them to maturity each property.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exists are classified as HTM.
fair value is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent to initial recognition, HTM financial assets are Investment property is derecognised when it has been either measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future method less any impairment losses.
economic benefit is expected from disposal.
Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property Loans and receivables are recognised in the income statement in the year of Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable retirement or disposal.
repayments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables, except those that are 1.12 Financial assets classified as AFS or HTM.
Loans and receivables are initially Financial assets are classified as AFS, held-to-maturity HTM, recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the and receivables.
effective interest rate method less any impairment losses.
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery Impairment of financial assets of assets within a time frame established by regulation or Insurance receivables convention in the market place are recognised on the date At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or AFS group of financial assets classified as AFS, HTM or loans Financial assets can be designated as AFS on initial recognition.
A financial asset or portfolio of AFS financial assets are initially recognised at fair value financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently if there is objective evidence that an event or events since measured at fair value.
Impairment losses and exchange initial recognition of the asset have adversely affected the differences resulting from translating the amortised cost of foreign amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
currency monetary AFS financial assets are recognised in the 120 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements AFS Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging as AFS has been recognised directly in equity and there is instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the way objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income the period of the hedge.
If the hedge is not highly effective statement.
The loss is measured as the difference between the in offsetting changes in cash flows and fair values attributable amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented risk Impairment losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed management strategy, or if the hedging instrument expires or is through profit or loss, but those on AFS debt instruments are sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively In a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or related to a subsequent event.
loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.
HTM and loans and receivables Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging financial asset or group of financial assets classified as HTM or instrument is recognised in the income statement.
The gain loans and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying recognised in the income statement and, where the hedged amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets, amount of the hedged item.
discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition.
Derecognition of financial assets A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant the cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group or collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and and has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards of the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial ownership of the asset.
assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the 1.13 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings impairment losses.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously liquid investments that are readily convertible to known recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change Insurance receivables in value.
Insurance receivables comprise outstanding insurance premiums Borrowings, comprising bank overdrafts, are measured where the policyholders have elected to pay in instalments, at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
or amounts due from third parties where they have collected or are due to collect the money from the policyholder.
1.14 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net Receivables also include amounts due in respect of the of transaction costs incurred.
Other than derivatives which provision of legal services.
are recognised and measured at fair value, all other financial For amounts due from policyholders, the bad debt provision is liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using calculated based upon prior loss experience.
For all balances the effective interest rate method.
outstanding in excess of three months, a bad debt provision A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under is made.
Where a policy is subsequently cancelled, the the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
outstanding debt that is overdue is charged to the income statement and the bad debt provision is released back to the 1.15 Subordinated liabilities income statement.
Subordinated liabilities comprise subordinated guaranteed dated notes which are initially measured at the consideration Derivatives and hedging received less related transaction costs.
Subsequently, Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and subordinated liabilities are measured at amortised cost using subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values the effective interest rate method.
are determined from quoted prices in active markets where available.
Where there is no active market for an instrument, 1.16 Provisions fair value is derived from prices for the derivatives components The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
constructive obligation from a past event when it is more likely than not that it will be required to transfer economic benefits to Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
derivative are recognised as they arise in the income statement unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying The Group makes provision for all insurance industry levies, hedge.
The Group enters into fair value hedge relationships such as the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and and a small amount of cash flow hedges.
COM 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Provision for taxation is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet When the Group has an onerous contract, it recognises date, and is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts the present obligation under the contract as a provision.
charged or credited to components of other comprehensive A contract is onerous when the unavoidable costs of income and equity, as appropriate.
meeting the contractual obligations exceed the expected future economic benefit.
In respect of leasehold properties, a Deferred taxation is accounted for in full using the balance provision is recognised when the Group has a detailed formal sheet liability method on all temporary differences between plan to vacate the leasehold property, or significantly reduce the carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting its level of occupancy, the plan has been communicated to purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes.
those affected and the future property costs under the lease exceed future economic benefits.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary timing differences and deferred tax assets are Restructuring provisions are made, including redundancy costs, recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.
will be available against which deductible temporary An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal differences can be utilised.
plan and has communicated the plan to those affected.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date 1.17 Leases and reduced to the extent that it is probable that they will not Payments made under operating leases are charged to be recovered.
the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets are realised or liabilities 1.18 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits are settled based on laws and rates that have been enacted or The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax of pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees.
is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt scheme are recognised in the income statement when payable.
with in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, as described in Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a note 25, was closed in 2003.
Scheme liabilities are measured legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method, current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and to settle its current assets and liabilities on a net basis.
currency to the scheme liabilities.
1.20 Share-based payments Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus The Group operates a number of share-based compensation or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in plans under which it awards Ordinary Shares and share the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
Such awards are generally subject The current service cost and any past service costs, together to vesting conditions that vary the amount of cash or shares with the net interest on net pension liability or asset, is charged to which an employee is entitled.
or credited to operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside Vesting conditions include service conditions requiring the the income statement and presented in other comprehensive employee to complete a specified period of service and income under Items that will not be reclassified subsequently performance conditions requiring the Group to meet to the income statement.
1.19 Taxation The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation The tax charge or credit represents the sum of the tax currently techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free payable or receivable and deferred tax.
interest rates, the current share price and its expected volatility.
The current tax charge is based on the taxable profits for the The cost of employee services received in exchange for an year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax award of shares or share options granted is measured by legislation, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income date the award is granted and takes into account non-vesting statement because it excludes items of income or expense that conditions and market performance conditions conditions are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes related to the market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
items that are never taxable or deductible.
122 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting IFRS 17 of 1 January 2021, applying the temporary period the period during which all the specified vesting exemption from applying IFRS 9 as introduced by the conditions must be satisfied with a corresponding increase amendments to IFRS 4. in equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding In May 2014 the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from liability in a cash-settled award.
The cost is adjusted for vesting Contracts with Customers to establish a single comprehensive conditions other than market performance conditions so as to model to use in accounting for revenue recognition and reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest.
The standard provides guidance on when The cancellation of an award through failure to meet nonand how combined contracts should be unbundled and when vesting conditions triggers an immediate expense for any a contract price includes a variable consideration element.
unrecognised element of the cost of an award.
IFRS 15 was endorsed by the EU in 2016 and either 1.21 Capital instruments a full retrospective application or a modified retrospective The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a application is required for annual periods beginning on or financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with after 1 January 2018.
During 2017 the Group reviewed the substance of the contractual arrangement.
An instrument is all non-insurance revenue and expects to apply IFRS 15 fully classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver retrospectively.
Insurance contracts are out of the scope of cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets IFRS 15 and therefore the Group does not expect the impact or financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms, or as on other operating income to be material.
equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the In January 2016 the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases to replace Group after the deduction of liabilities.
the existing leasing standard IAS 17: it was endorsed by the The Tier 1 notes are classified as equity as they have a EU in October 2017 and will be effective from 1 January perpetual maturity and the Group has full discretion over 2019.
IFRS 16 sets out the principles for recognition, interest payments, including ability to defer or cancel interest measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases and payments indefinitely.
requires lessees to account for all leases under a single on-balance sheet model similar to the accounting for finance The consideration for any Ordinary Share of the Company leases under IAS 17.
There are two exemptions: for leases purchased by the Group for the benefit of the employee trusts of a low value and for leases of a short-term nature of 12 is deducted from equity.
At the start of a lease a lessee will recognise a liability for the lease payments and an asset, representing 1.22 Dividends the right to use the asset during the lease term.
Lessees will be Interim dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised in required to separately recognise the interest expense on the equity in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends lease liability and the depreciation expense on the right-of-use on Ordinary Shares are recognised when they have been asset.
Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is substantially approved at the AGM.
unchanged from the current approach under IAS 17.
1.23 Accounting developments In 2018, the Group will continue to assess the potential New IFRSs and amendments that are issued, but not yet effect of IFRS 16 on its consolidated financial statements: effective for the 31 December 2017 reporting period and the undiscounted value of the Groups lease obligations is have not been early adopted by the Group are disclosed disclosed in note 39.
The Group does not expect the impact below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, if on operating expenses or finance costs to be material.
applicable, when they become effective, except for IFRS 9 as explained below.
In December 2016 the IASB issued Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle that included the In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 two following improvements: Financial Instruments that replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial versions of IFRS 9: it was endorsed by the EU in 2016.
IFRS 9 Reporting Standards the amendment deletes certain addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition short-term exemptions for first-time adopters IASB effective of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new date of 1 January 2018 : rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for IAS 28 Investments in Associations and Joint Ventures the financial assets: it is effective for annual periods beginning on amendment provides clarification that measuring investees at or after 1 January 2018. fair value through profit or loss is an  choice: it is effective from 1 January 2018.
In September 2016, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 4 to address issues arising from the different effective dates of The following new standard and amendments to IFRSs and IFRS 9 and IFRS 17.
The amendments to IFRS 4 were endorsed IASs have been issued and are expected to be endorsed by by the EU in November 2017. the EU during 2018.
With the exception of the new standard IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, the Group does not expect the In 2017 the Group conducted a high-level assessment of the following amendments to have a material impact on the three aspects of IFRS 9 and based on current information, the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
impact of applying the expected loss model for the first time is currently immaterial.
The Group does not expect any other significant impact on its financial statements.
The Group satisfies the exemption criteria within IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and has decided to defer the application of IFRS 9 until the effective date of the new insurance contracts standard WWW.
COM 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Amendments to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts was issued by the IASB in were issued in October 2017 to clarify that an entity applies May 2017 to replace IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, and IFRS 9 to long-term interests in associates or joint ventures that will be effective for reporting periods beginning on or after form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture 1 January 2021, with comparative figures required.
IFRS 17 but to which the equity method is not applied.
The is a comprehensive new accounting standard for all insurance amendments are effective from 1 January 2019. contracts covering recognition and measurement, presentation and disclosure.
The overall objective of IFRS 17 is to provide Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Prepayment an accounting model for insurance contracts that is more useful Features with Negative Compensation was issued in October and consistent for insurers and to replace the requirements 2017 to allow instruments with symmetric prepayment options of IFRS 4 that allowed insurers to apply grandfathering of to qualify for amortised cost or fair value through other previous local accounting policies.
IFRS 17 provides a comprehensive income measurement because they would comprehensive model for insurance contracts, covering otherwise fail the solely payments of principal and interest on all relevant accounting aspects.
The amendments are effective The core of IFRS 17 is the general model, supplemented by from 1 January 2019. an optional simplified premium allocation approach which is In December 2017 the IASB issued Annual Improvements to permitted for the liability for the remaining coverage for shortIFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle with an effective date of duration contracts.
The general model measures insurance 1 January 2019, which included the following three contracts using the building blocks of: discounted : weighted cash flows: an explicit risk adjustment: and a contractual service margin representing the unearned profit IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IFRS 11 Joint of the contract which is recognised as revenue over the Arrangements the amendments to IFRS 3 clarify that when coverage period.
an entity obtains control of a business that is a joint operation, it remeasures previously held interests in that business: the An assessment will be undertaken during 2018 of the impact amendments to IFRS 11 clarify that when an entity obtains of IFRS 17 on the Groups financial statements.
The Group joint control of a business that is a joint operation, the entity expects to be able to apply the simplified premium allocation does not remeasure previously held interests in that business.
approach to most of its insurance and reinsurance contracts.
The IASB amended IFRS 2 Share-based Payments IAS 12 Income Taxes the amendments clarify that all Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment income tax consequences of dividends should be recognised Transactions, to address three main areas: the effects of vesting in profit or loss, regardless of how the tax arises.
conditions on the measurement of a cash-settled share-based IAS 23 Borrowing Costs the amendments clarify that if any payment transaction: the classification of a share-based specific borrowing remains outstanding after the related asset payment transaction with net settlement features for withholding is ready for its intended use or sale, that borrowing becomes tax obligations: and accounting where a modification to the part of the funds that an entity borrows generally when terms and conditions of a share-based payment transaction calculating the capitalisation rate on general borrowings.
changes its classification from cash-settled to equity-settled: the amendments are effective from 1 January 2018.
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration was issued in December 2016 and the The IASB issued amendments to IAS 40 Investment Property interpretation clarifies how to determine the date of transaction Transfers of Investment Property in December 2016 to clarify for the exchange rate to be used on initial recognition of when an entity should transfer property, including property a related asset, expense or income or part of it where an under construction or development into, or out of investment entity pays or receives consideration in advance for foreign property.
The amendments state that a change in use occurs currency-denominated contracts and has an effective date of when the property meets, or ceases to meet, the definition of 1 January 2018. an investment property and there is evidence of the change in use.
The amendments are effective from 1 January 2018.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments was issued in June 2017 and provides interpretation when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments under IAS 12 Income Taxes and has an effective date of 1 January 2019.
124 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial information.
The Groups principal accounting policies are set out on pages 117 to 124.
Company law and IFRSs require the Directors, in preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors requires management to develop and apply an accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASBs Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
The judgements and assumptions involved in the Groups accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
2.1 Impairment provisions financial assets The Group determines that financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the assets have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
The determination of which events could have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset requires judgement.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the normal price volatility of the financial asset, the financial health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and financing cash flow or whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost.
Impairment may be appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in these factors.
On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired based on the following criteria: actual, or imminent, default on coupon interest or nominal: adverse movements in the credit rating for the investee borrower: or price performance of a particular AFS debt security, or group of AFS debt securities, demonstrating an adverse trend compared to the market as a whole.
There was 9.5 million impairment within loans and receivables of the Groups financial assets in the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: nil.
Had all the declines in AFS asset values met the criteria above at 31 December 2017, the Group would suffer a loss of 6.5 million 2016: 12.6 million, being the transfer of the total AFS reserve for unrealised losses to the income statement.
These movements represent mark-to-market movements and where there is no objective evidence of any loss events that could affect future cash flows, no impairments are recorded for these movements.
2.2 Fair value The Group has made the judgement that level 1 of the Groups fair value hierarchy set out in note 40 will include only sovereign debt securities issued by members of the G1O group of countries within the Groups AFS debt securities portfolio, with all other financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value included in level 2 as they are not considered to be quoted in a deeply liquid market.
The Group has also made the judgement that investment properties, most of the HTM debt securities, commercial real estate loans and infrastructure debt fall within level 3 of the Groups fair value hierarchy note 40 as the valuation models used are driven predominantly by unobservable inputs: investment property valuations are derived from recent market transactions which are adjusted for specific characteristics of each property including the size, location and condition by reference to the benchmark property transactions.
2.3 Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill impairment testing inherently involves estimation uncertainty in a number of areas including: the preparation of the five-year strategic plan and the extrapolation of cash flow forecasts beyond the normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the CGUs: estimation of market values of CGUs: and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
Details of a sensitivity analysis on the recoverable amount in excess of carrying value are shown in note 17.
Impairment testing of software development costs involves estimation uncertainty in a number of areas including: the projection of the economic benefits associated with each asset: subsequent re-measurement of these benefits through the development cycle and into use: and the projected ultimate cost of each asset at each point through the development cycle due to specification changes.
2.4 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and related reinsurance recoveries The Group makes provision for the full cost of outstanding claims from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling.
Outstanding claims provisions net of related reinsurance recoveries at 31 December 2017 amounted to 3,144.5 million 2016: 3,388.3 million.
COM 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued 2.4 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and related reinsurance recoveries continued Claims reserves are assessed separately for large and attritional claims, typically using standard actuarial methods of projection.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty include those arising from the selection of specific methods as well as assumptions for claims frequency and severity through the review of historical claims and emerging trends.
The corresponding reinsurance recoveries and impairment provision are calculated on an equivalent basis, with similar estimation uncertainty, as discussed in note 1.6.
The reinsurance bad debt provision is mainly for expected recoveries against future PPO payments.
The most common method of settling bodily injury claims is by a lump sum paid to the claimant and, in the cases where this includes an element of indemnity for recurring costs such as loss of earnings or ongoing medical care, settlement calculations have reference to a standardised Ogden annuity factor at a discount rate of minus 0.75% in 2017 2016: minus 0.75%.
This is normally referred to as the Ogden discount rate.
Other estimates are also required for case management expenses, loss of pension, court protection fees, alterations to accommodation and transportation fees.
The Lord Chancellor changed the Ogden discount rate from 2.5% to minus 0.75% in March 2017 based on a 3-year average of yields on index-linked government securities which will be sensitive to future movements in these instruments.
The Government is currently planning to review the Ogden discount rate again based on low risk investments rather than very low risk investments, however, there is considerable uncertainty if, when and how a change might be made.
The Group will continue to exercise judgement around the Ogden rate used in its reserves allowing for the possibility for it to change in the future.
It considers the uncertainties around the legal framework and its implementation as being significant and therefore provisions at the current proposed rate of minus 0.75%.
An allowance for further movements in the Ogden rate is made within the Groups Solvency II balance sheet and capital requirements.
Details of the IFRS sensitivity analysis to the assumed Ogden discount rate are shown in note 3.3.
However, it should be noted that the Government is considering not only the appropriate level for the rate but also the methodology of how it is applied, so any sensitivity has considerable limitations.
The Group settles some large bodily injury claims as PPOs rather than lump sum payments.
The table below analyses the outstanding PPO claims provisions on a discounted and an undiscounted basis at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
These represent the total cost of PPOs rather than any costs in excess of purely Ogden-based settlement.
Discounted Undiscounted Discounted Undiscounted 2017 2017 2016 2016 At 31 December m m m m Gross claims Approved PPO claims provisions 524.9 1,460.3 489.0 1,388.0 Anticipated PPOs 373.8 974.7 494.0 1,509.9 Total 898.7 2,435.0 983.0 2,897.9 Reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 276.5 806.8 248.6 754.4 Anticipated PPOs 240.4 680.7 263.1 875.4 Total 516.9 1,487.5 511.7 1,629.8 Net of reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 248.4 653.5 240.4 633.6 Anticipated PPOs 133.4 294.0 230.9 634.5 Total 381.8 947.5 471.3 1,268.1 The provisions for PPOs have been categorised as either claims which have already been determined by the courts as PPOs approved PPO claims provisions or those expected to settle as PPOs in the future anticipated PPOs.
The Group is subject to estimation uncertainty on the propensity of large bodily injury claims to move from Ogden settled values to PPOs.
The estimates in the table above are based on historically observed propensity and the recent change in the Ogden discount rate.
They do not allow for any future changes in PPO propensity.
Anticipated PPOs consist of both existing large loss case reserves including allowances for development and claims yet to be reported to the Group.
Reinsurance is applied at claim level and the net cash flows are discounted for the time value of money.
The discount rate is consistent with the long duration of the claims payments and the assumed future indexation of the claims payments.
In the majority of cases, the inflation agreed in the settlement is the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings SOC 6115 inflation published by the Office for National Statistics, for which the long-term rate is assumed to be 4.0% 2016: 4.0%.
The rate of interest used for the calculation of present values is 4.0% 2016: 4.0%, which results in a real discount rate of 0.0% 2016: 0.0%.
Details of sensitivity analysis to the discount rate applied to PPO claims are shown in note 3.3.
126 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3.
Risk management 3.1 Enterprise risk management strategy and framework The ERMF sets out, at a high level, our approach and processes for managing risks.
Further information can be found in the risk management section of the strategic report on page 23.
3.2 Risk and capital management modelling The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has sufficient funds to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group carries out detailed modelling of its assets, liabilities and the key risks to which these are exposed.
This modelling includes the Groups own assessment of its SCR.
In 2015, this SCR assessment was submitted to the PRA as part of the Groups Internal Model Approval Process for which approval was subsequently granted in June 2016.
The SCR quantifies the insurance, market, credit and operational risks that the regulated entities are undertaking.
The Board is closely involved in the SCR process and reviews, challenges and approves its assumptions and results.
3.3 Principal risks from insurance activities and use of financial instruments The risk management section of the strategic report sets out all the risks assessed by the Group as principal risks.
Detailed below is the Groups risk exposure arising from its insurance activities and use of financial instruments specifically in respect of insurance risk, market risk, operational risk and credit risk.
1 Insurance risk The Group is exposed to insurance risk as a primary consequence of its business.
Key insurance risks focus on the risk of loss due to fluctuations in the timings, amount, frequency and severity of an insured event relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following insurance risks: Reserve risk Reserve risk relates to both premium and claims.
This is the risk of understatement of reserves arising from: the uncertain nature of claims: data issues and changes to the claims reporting process: operational failures: failure to recognise claims trends in the market: and changes in underwriting and business written so that past trends are not necessarily a predictor of the future.
Understatement of reserves may result in not being able to pay claims when they fall due.
Alternatively, overstatement of reserves can lead to a surplus of funds being retained resulting in opportunity cost: for example lost investment return or insufficient resource to pursue strategic projects and develop the business.
Reserve risk is controlled through a range of processes: regular reviews of the claims and premiums, along with an assessment of the requirement for a liability adequacy provision for the main classes of business by the internal actuarial team: the use of external actuaries to review periodically the ABE reserves produced internally, either through peer review or through provision of independent reserve estimates: accompanying all reserve reviews with actuarial assessment of the uncertainties through a variety of techniques including bootstrapping and scenario analysis: oversight of the reserving process by relevant senior management and the Board: regular reconciliation of the data used in the actuarial reviews against general ledger data and reconciliation of the claims data history against the equivalent data from prior reviews: and regular assessment of the uncertainty in the reserves to help the Board set management best estimate reserves.
The Groups reserves are subject to the risk of retrospective changes in judicial conditions such as the change in the Ogden discount rate announced on 27 February 2017.
This is the discount rate set by the Lord Chancellor and used by courts to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases.
The rate had been 2.5% since 2001 but was changed to minus 0.75% from 20 March 2017.
The Group subsequently revised its reserve estimation to be based on the new rate, although this rate may change again in future, depending on the outcome of the Governments consultation on the framework for setting the rate and on the frequency and timing of future changes.
Uncertainty in claims reserves estimation is larger for claims such as PPOs for which annually indexed payments are made, typically over the lifetime of the injured party.
Claims reserves for PPOs are held on a discounted basis and are sensitive to a change in the assumed real discount rate.
COM 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The tables below provide a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor discount rate used for PPOs, Ogden discount rate with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Increase decrease in profit 3,4 before tax and equity 2017 2016 At 31 December m m 1 PPOs Impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points 54.6 68.2 Impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points 75.1 97.9 Ogden discount rate Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of 0% compared to minus 0.75% 68.4 102.1 Impact of the Group reserving at a discount rate of minus 1.5% compared to minus 0.75% 102.9 156.4 Notes: 1.
The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the real discount rate used for PPOs illustrate a movement in the time value of money from the assumed level of 0.0%.
The PPO sensitivity has been calculated on the direct impact on the change in the real discount rate with all other factors remaining unchanged.
Ogden discount rate sensitivity has been calculated on the direct impact of a permanent change in the discount rate with all other factors remaining unchanged.
The Group will consider the statutory discount rate when setting its reserves but not necessarily provide on this basis.
This is to ensure that reserves are appropriate for current and potential future developments.
These sensitivities exclude the impact of taxation.
These sensitivities reflect one-off impacts at 31 December and should not be interpreted as predictions.
The sensitivity above is calculated on the basis of a permanent change in the rate on the actuarial best estimate reserves as at 31 December 2017.
It does not take into account a change in the Ogden discount rate setting regime, nor any second order impacts such as those on the Groups PPO assumptions or reinsurance bad debt assumptions.
The year on year reduction in sensitivity to a change in the Ogden discount rate reflects a 49 million reserve release arising after a detailed case review of the Groups 2016 Ogden provision as well as the overall reduction in bodily injury exposures.
This is due to continued positive prior-year development of claims reserves for large bodily injury claims, particularly for accident years where the reinsurance retention level was higher than the current level of 1 million.
There is the risk that claims are reserved or paid inappropriately, including the timing of such activity.
However, there are claims management controls in place to mitigate this risk, as outlined below: claims are managed utilising a range of IT system-driven controls coupled with manual processes outlined in detailed policies and procedures to ensure claims are handled in an appropriate, timely and accurate manner: each member of staff has a specified handling authority, with controls preventing them handling or paying claims outside their authority, as well as controls to mitigate the risk of paying invalid claims.
In addition, there are various outsourced claims handling arrangements, all of which are monitored closely by management, with similar principles applying in terms of the controls and procedures: loss adjustors are used in certain circumstances to handle claims to conclusion.
This involves liaison with the policyholder, third parties, suppliers and the claims function: specialist bodily injury claims teams are responsible for handling these types of losses with the nature of handling dependent on the level and type of claim.
Claims exceeding a certain threshold are referred to the technical and large loss teams who also deal with all other claim types above defined limits or within specific criteria: and a process is in place to deal with major weather and other catastrophic events, known as the Surge Demand Plan.
A surge is the collective name given to an incident which significantly increases the volume of claims reported to the Groups claims functions.
The plan covers surge demand triggers, stages of incident, operational impact, communication and management information monitoring of the plan.
Underwriting risk This is the risk that future claims experience on business written is materially different from the results expected, resulting in current-year losses.
The Group predominantly underwrites personal lines insurance including motor, residential property, roadside assistance, creditor, travel and pet business.
The Group also underwrites commercial risks primarily for low-to-medium risk trades within the SME market.
Contracts are typically issued on an annual basis which means that the Groups liability usually extends for a 12 month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can impose renewal terms by amending the premium or other policy terms and conditions such as the excess as appropriate.
Underwriting risk includes catastrophe risk and the risk of loss, or of adverse change in the value of the insurance liabilities resulting from significant uncertainty of pricing, underwriting and provisioning assumptions related to extreme or exceptional circumstances.
128 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements When underwriting policies, the Group is subject to concentration risk in a variety of forms, including: geographic concentration risk the Group purchases a catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against a modelled one in 200-years catastrophe loss.
The retained deductible is 13.99% of the gross earned premium of the preceding 12 months and at 31 December 2017 was 147 million 2016: 150 million product concentration risk the Groups business is heavily concentrated in the UK general insurance market.
However, the Group offers a diversified portfolio of products and a variety of brands sold through a range of distribution channels to its customers: and sector concentration risk the concentration of the Group to any given industry sector is monitored and analysed in respect of commercial customers It is important to note that none of these risk categories is independent of the others and that giving due consideration to the relationship between these risks is an important aspect of the effective management of insurance risk.
Distribution risk This is the risk that material change in the volume of policies written may result in losses or reduced profitability.
Pricing risk This is the risk of economic loss arising from policies being incorrectly priced or accepted to achieve desired volume and profitability.
Reinsurance risk This is the risk of inappropriate selection and or placement of reinsurance arrangements, with either individual or multiple reinsurers which renders the transfer of insurance risk to the reinsurer s inappropriate and or ineffective.
Other risks include: reinsurance concentration risk the concentration of credit exposure to any given counterparty: reinsurance capacity being reduced and or withdrawn: underwriting risk appetite and reinsurance contract terms not being aligned: reinsurance contract terms being inappropriate or ineffective resulting in classes or types of business not being appropriately reinsured: non-adherence to the reinsurance policy terms and conditions, in terms of both policy management and claims not being handled within the reinsurance contract terms and conditions or paid on an ex-gratia basis resulting in reinsurance recoveries not being made in full: inappropriate or inaccurate management information and or modelling being used to determine the value for money and purchasing of reinsurance including aggregate modelling : and changes in the external legal, regulatory, social or economic environment altering the definition and application of reinsurance policy wordings or the effectiveness or value for money of reinsurance.
The Group uses reinsurance to: protect the underwriting result against low-frequency, high-severity losses through the transfer of catastrophe claims volatility to reinsurers: protect the underwriting result against unforeseen volumes of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims in order to reduce volatility and to improve stability of earnings: reduce the Groups capital requirements: and or transfer risk that is not within the Groups current risk appetite.
2 Market risk Market risk is the risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the level and in the volatility of market prices of assets, liabilities and financial instruments.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following market risk factors: spread risk: interest rate risk: property risk: and currency risk.
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Investment Committee for managing the market risk exposure.
These set out the principles that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept having considered strategy, risk appetite and capital resources.
COM 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The Group monitors its market risk exposure on a monthly basis and has established an aggregate exposure limit consistent with its risk objective to maintain capital adequacy.
Interdependencies across risk types have also been considered within the aggregate exposure limit.
The allocation of the Groups investments across asset classes has been approved by the Investment Committee.
The strategic asset allocation within the investment portfolio is reviewed by the Investment Committee, which makes recommendations to the Board for its investment strategy approval.
The Investment Committee determines policy and controls, covering such areas as risk, liquidity and performance.
The Investment Committee meets at least three times a year to evaluate risk exposure, the current strategy, associated policies and investment guidelines and to consider investment recommendations submitted to it.
Oversight of the implementation of decisions taken by the Investment Committee is via the First and Second Lines of Defence.
The investment management objectives are to: maintain the safety of the portfolios principal both in economic terms and from a capital, accounting and reporting perspective: maintain sufficient liquidity to provide cash requirements for operations, including in the event of a catastrophe: and maximise the portfolios total return within the constraints of the other objectives and the limits defined by the investment guidelines and capital allocation.
The Group has a property portfolio and an infrastructure debt portfolio to generate a real return which, from an asset liability matching perspective, is used to offset the liability arising from longer duration PPOs.
The Group uses its internal economic capital model to determine its capital requirements and market risk limits, and monitors its market risk exposure based on a 99.5% value-at-risk measure.
The Group also applies market risk stressed scenarios testing for the economic impact of specific severe market conditions.
The results of this analysis are used to enhance the understanding of market risk.
The asset liability matching and investment management minimum standard explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative or gearing purposes.
However, the Group is able to and does use derivatives for hedging its currency risk and interest rate risk exposures.
Spread risk This is the risk of loss from the sensitivity of the value of assets and investments to changes in the level or in the volatility of credit spreads over the risk-free interest rate term structure.
The level of spread is the difference between the risk-free rate and actual rate paid on the asset, with larger spreads being associated with higher risk assets.
The Group is exposed to spread risk through its investments in bonds.
Interest rate risk This is the risk of loss from all assets and liabilities for which the net asset value is sensitive to changes in the term structure of interest rates or interest rate volatility.
The Groups interest rate risk arises mainly from its debt, floating interest rate investments and assets and liabilities exposed to fixed interest rates.
The subordinated guaranteed dated notes with a nominal value of 500 million were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year designated hedging instrument to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points which was credit value adjusted to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013.
On 8 December 2017, the Group repurchased 250 million nominal value of the subordinated guaranteed dated notes for a purchase price of 330.1 million including accrued interest of 2.7 million and associated transaction costs of 0.6 million.
The remaining notes, with a nominal value of 250 million, have a redemption date of 27 April 2042 with the option to repay the notes on 27 April 2022.
If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.
On 7 December 2017, the Group issued 350 million of fixed rate perpetual Tier 1 notes with a coupon rate of 4.75% per annum.
The Group also invests in floating rate debt securities, whose investment income is influenced by the movement of the short-term interest rate.
A movement of the short-term interest rate will affect the expected return on these investments.
The market value of the Groups financial investments with fixed coupons is affected by the movement of interest rates.
For the majority of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds, excluding 403.9 million of short duration high yield bonds 2016: 432.0 million the Group hedges the exposure of this portfolio to the US Dollar interest rate risk using swaps.
Property risk This is the risk of loss arising from sensitivity of assets and financial investments to the level or volatility of market prices, rental yields, or occupancy rates of properties.
At 31 December 2017, the value of these property investments was 309.3 million 2016: 329.0 million.
The property investments are located in the UK.
130 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Currency risk This is the risk of loss from changes in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates.
Exposure to currency risk is generated by the Groups investments in US Dollar and Euro denominated corporate bonds.
The Group maintains exposure to US Dollar securities through 2,084.5 million 2016: 2,107.1 million of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds and Euro securities through 110.4 million 2016: 91.8 million of Euro corporate bonds.
The foreign currency exposure of these investments is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts, maintaining a minimal unhedged currency exposure on these portfolios, as well as a low basis risk on the hedging contracts.
A limited exposure to currency risk also arises through the Groups insurance and other contractual liabilities.
Sensitivity analysis The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
5 Increase decrease Decrease in total equity 5 in profit before tax at 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Spread Impact of a 100 basis points increase in spreads on financial 1,2, 4 investments 183.5 183.1 Interest rate Impact of a 100 basis points increase in interest rates on financial 1,2, 3,4 investments and derivatives 17.3 21.5 98.3 101.5 Investment property Impact of a 15% decrease in property markets 46.4 49.4 46.4 49.4 Notes: 1.
The income statement impact on financial investments is limited to floating rate instruments and interest rate derivatives used to hedge a portion of the portfolio.
The income statement is not impacted in relation to fixed rate instruments, in particular AFS debt securities, where the coupon return is not impacted by a change in prevailing market rates, as the accounting treatment for AFS debt securities means that only the coupon received is processed through the income statement with fair value movements being recognised through total equity.
The increase or decrease in total equity does not reflect any fair value movement in infrastructure debt, HTM debt securities and commercial real estate loans that would not be recorded in the financial statements under IFRSs as they are classified as loans and receivables and HTM respectively, which are carried at amortised cost.
It is estimated that a fair value reduction in these asset categories resulting from a 100 basis points increase in spreads would have been 23.7 million 2016: 34.4 million and a 100 basis points increase in interest rate would have been 6.2 million 2016:4.8 million.
The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December with the exception of the income statement interest rate sensitivity on financial investments and derivatives, which projects a movement in a full years interest charge as a result of the increase in the interest rate applied to these assets or liabilities on those positions held at 31 December.
The subordinated liabilities and associated interest rate swap are excluded from the sensitivity analysis.
The sensitivities set out above have not considered the impact of the general market changes on the value of the Groups insurance liabilities or retirement benefit obligations.
They reflect one-off impacts at 31 December and should not be interpreted as predictions.
The Group has a number of open interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions.
Collateral management arrangements are in place for significant counterparty exposures.
At 31 December 2017, the Group has pledged 28.2 million in cash 2016: 23.7 million and 0.3 million in UK Gilts 2016: 3.4 million to cover initial margins and out-of-the-money derivative positions.
At 31 December 2017, counterparties have pledged 25.1 million in cash and 15.5 million in UK Gilts 2016: 19.1 million in cash and 39.4 million in UK Gilts to the Group to cover in-the-money derivative positions.
The terms and conditions of collateral pledged for both assets and liabilities are market standard.
When securities are pledged they are required to be readily convertible to cash, and as such no policy has been established for the disposal of assets not readily convertible into cash.
3 Credit risk This is the risk of loss resulting from default in cash inflows and or changes in market value of issuers of securities, counterparties and any debtors to which the Group is exposed.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following credit risk factors: counterparty default risk: and concentration risk.
Counterparty default risk This is the risk of loss from unexpected default of the counterparties and debtors of Group undertakings.
This risk is monitored by three forums: the Investment risk forum monitors credit spreads as indicators of potential losses on investments incurred but not yet realised: the Credit risk forum monitors reinsurance and corporate insurance counterparty default risk: and the NIG credit committee is responsible for monitoring broker credit risk.
The main responsibility of these forums is to ensure that all material aspects of counterparty default risk within the Group are identified, monitored and measured.
COM 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The main sources of counterparty default risk for the Group are: investments this arises from the investment of funds in a range of investment vehicles permitted by the investment policy reinsurance recoveries counterparty exposure to reinsurance counterparties arises in respect of reinsurance claims against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
PPOs have the potential to increase the ultimate value of a claim and, by their very nature, to increase significantly the length of time to reach final payment.
This can increase reinsurance counterparty default risk in terms of both amount and longevity: and consumer credit exposure from offering monthly instalments on annual insurance contracts The Group cedes insurance risk to reinsurers but, in return, assumes counterparty default risk against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
The financial security of the Groups panel of reinsurers is therefore important and both the quality and amount of the assumed counterparty default risk are subject to an approval process whereby reinsurance is only purchased from reinsurers that hold a credit rating of at least A at the time cover is purchased.
The Groups leading counterparty exposures are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Head of Reinsurance and Corporate Insurance.
The Group aims to contract with a diverse range of reinsurers on its contracts to mitigate the credit and or non-payment risks associated with its reinsurance exposures.
Certain reinsurance contracts have long durations as a result of bodily injury and PPO claims, and insurance reserves therefore include provisions beyond the levels created for shorter-term reinsurance bad debt.
For these contracts, reinsurance is only purchased from reinsurers that hold a credit rating of at least A at the time cover is purchased.
The following tables analyse the carrying value of financial and insurance assets that bear counterparty default risk between those assets that have not been impaired by age in relation to due date, and those that have been impaired.
Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value past due nor Past due more than have been in the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Reinsurance assets 1,178.5 1,178.5 Insurance and other receivables 942.5 38.2 0.5 981.2 Derivative assets 84.4 84.4 Debt securities 4,555.0 4,555.0 Infrastructure debt 316.4 316.4 Commercial real estate loans 169.0 169.0 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,358.6 1,358.6 Total 8,604.4 38.2 0.5 8,643.1 Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value past due nor Past due more than have been in the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Reinsurance assets 1,371.8 1,371.8 Insurance and other receivables 937.8 38.0 12.5 988.3 Derivative assets 79.7 79.7 Debt securities 4,730.3 4,730.3 Infrastructure debt 337.0 337.0 Commercial real estate loans 79.7 79.7 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,166.1 1,166.1 Total 8,702.4 38.0 12.5 8,752.9 Note: 1.
This represents money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal and cash at bank and in hand.
Within the analysis of debt securities above are bank debt securities at 31 December 2017 of 1,197.4 million 2016: 1,199.5 million, that can be further analysed as: secured 63.5 million 2016: 62.2 million : unsecured 976.3 million 2016: 973.8 million : and subordinated 157.6 million 2016: 163.5 million.
Concentration risk This is the risk of loss associated with inadequately diversified portfolios of assets and or obligations, in particular: large exposures to individual credits either bond issuers or deposit-taking institutions : and large exposures to different credits where movements in values and ratings are closely correlated.
132 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Concentration risk on investments arises through excessive exposure to particular industry sectors, groups of business undertakings or similar activities.
The Group may suffer significant losses in its investment portfolio as a result of over exposure to particular sectors engaged in similar activities or similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities, by geographical area commercial real estate loans and infrastructure debt are all within the UK.
COM 133 W W W. D I R E C T L I N E G R O U P. C O M 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The table below analyses the distribution of debt securities by geographical area commercial real estate loans and infrastructure debt are all within the UK.
2017 2016 At 31 December m % m % Basic materials 110.3 3% 132.6 3% Communications 239.2 5% 234.1 5% Consumer, cyclical 374.9 8% 349.1 7% Consumer, non-cyclical 494.4 11% 520.7 11% Diversified 57.9 1% 57.3 1% Energy 263.6 6% 310.8 7% Financial 1,836.1 40% 1,776.9 38% Industrial 216.2 5% 215.3 4% Sovereign, supranational and local government 280.9 6% 461.5 10% Technology 163.1 4% 137.6 3% Transport 13.4 0% 10.1 0% Utilities 505.0 11% 524.3 11% Total 4,555.0 100% 4,730.3 100% 134 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The table below analyses the distribution of infrastructure debt by industry sector classifications.
2017 2016 m % At 31 December m % Social, of which: Education 140.5 44% 145.5 43% Healthcare 84.3 27% 96.0 29% Other 56.3 18% 57.6 17% Transport 35.3 11% 37.9 11% Total 316.4 100% 337.0 100% The tables below analyse the credit quality of debt securities that are neither past due nor impaired.
The tables include reinsurance exposure, after provision.
1 details the Groups approach to reinsurance counterparty default risk management.
Includes receivables due from policyholders, agents, brokers and intermediaries which generally do not have a credit rating.
COM 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
4 Operational risk This is the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external events.
Sources of operational risk for the Group include: Change risk This is the risk of failing to manage the Groups change portfolio resulting in conflicting priorities and failure to deliver strategic outcomes to time, cost or quality.
Technology and infrastructure risk This is the risk that the IT infrastructure is insufficient to deliver the Groups strategy.
Outsourcing risk This is the risk of failing to implement a robust framework for the sourcing, appointment and ongoing contract management of third party suppliers, outsourced service providers and intragroup relationships.
This includes both domestic and offshore outsourcing activities.
Information Security risk This is the risk of loss, corruption to Group or customer data, intellectual property or failure of business critical systems resulting in reputational damage, regulatory censure, supervision, fines and or loss of competitive advantage.
The Group has in place agreed policies and standards to establish key controls relating to operational risk.
5 Liquidity risk This is the risk of being unable to realise investments in order to settle financial obligations when they fall due.
The measurement and management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within the limits and other policy parameters of the Groups liquidity risk appetite and is detailed within the liquidity risk minimum standard.
As part of this process the Investment and Treasury team are required to put in place a liquidity plan which must consider expected and stressed scenarios for cash in-flows and out-flows that is reviewed at least annually by the Investment risk Committee.
Compliance is monitored in respect of both the minimum standard and the regulatory requirements of the PRA.
The tables below analyse the maturity of the Groups derivative assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m At 31 December 2017 Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 2,735.3 51.1 51.1 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 17.3 1.0 1.0 Interest rate swaps 1,794.9 1.9 21.5 12.7 32.3 Total 4,547.5 50.2 21.5 12.7 84.4 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 579.9 11.3 11.3 Designated as hedging instruments: Interest rate swaps 113.1 0.5 0.1 0.3 0.7 Total 693.0 11.8 0.1 0.3 12.0 136 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m At 31 December 2016 Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,110.0 21.4 21.4 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 14.8 1.6 0.1 1.7 Interest rate swaps 1,902.0 1.1 3.0 54.7 56.6 Total 3,026.8 21.9 3.1 54.7 79.7 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 2,589.6 43.5 43.5 Designated as hedging instruments: Interest rate swaps 634.8 1.1 0.5 1.6 Total 3,224.4 44.6 0.5 45.1 The tables below analyse financial investments, cash and cash equivalents, insurance and financial liabilities by remaining duration, in proportion to the cash flows expected to arise during that period, for each category.
COM 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Insurance liabilities exclude unearned premium reserves as there are no liquidity risks inherent in them.
3.4 Capital adequacy unaudited The Group manages capital in accordance with the Group's capital management minimum standard, the aims of which are to manage capital efficiently and generate long-term sustainable value for shareholders, while balancing operational, regulatory, rating agency and policyholder requirements.
The Group seeks to hold capital resources such that in the normal course of business, the Solvency II capital coverage ratio is around the middle of the target range of 140% to 180%.
The Groups regulatory capital position is assessed against the Solvency II framework.
From 1 July 2016, the Group gained approval to assess its SCR using a partial internal model, including a full internal economic capital model for the UKI underwriting entity.
The model is calibrated to a 99.5% confidence interval and considers business written to date and one year of future written business over a one year time horizon, in line with Solvency II requirements.
Using the Groups partial internal model, there is a capital surplus of approximately 0.86 billion above an estimated SCR of 1.39 billion as at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: 0.91 billion and 1.40 billion respectively.
The Groups capital requirements and solvency position are produced and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Segmental analysis The Directors manage the Group primarily by product type and present the segmental analysis on that basis.
The segments, which are all UK based, reflect the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Committee is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer for each of the operating segments: Motor This segment consists of personal motor insurance together with the associated legal protection cover.
The Group sells motor insurance direct to customers through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and also through partnership brands such as vehicle manufacturers and through PCWs.
Home This segment consists of home insurance together with associated legal protection cover.
The Group sells home insurance direct through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and also through partnership brands and through PCWs.
Rescue and other personal lines This segment consists of rescue products which are sold direct through the Groups own brand, Green Flag, and other personal lines insurance, including travel, pet and creditor sold through its own brands, Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, and also through partnership brands and through PCWs.
Commercial This segment consists of commercial insurance for SME entities sold through NIG who distribute through proxies, Direct Line for Business which sells direct to SMEs, Churchill for Business and through partnership brands.
Certain income and charges are not allocated to the specific operating segments above as they are considered by management to be outside underlying business activities by virtue of their one-off incidence, size or nature.
Such income and charges are categorised as either run-off or restructuring costs: run-off costs are described below.
Run-off The segment consists of two principal lines, policies previously written through the personal lines broker channel and Tesco business.
These residual businesses are now in run-off.
138 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Restructuring costs Restructuring costs are costs incurred in respect of the business activities where the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure its activities.
No inter-segment transactions occurred in the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: nil.
If any transaction were to occur, transfer prices between operating segments would be set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segment income, expenses and results will include those transfers between business segments which will then be eliminated on consolidation.
During 2018 the Group does not expect to incur material restructuring costs and run-off profits are expected to decrease over time.
From 2018 these items will be included within operating profit with any future material restructuring activities or other one-off items highlighted separately as they occur.
For each operating segment, there is no individual policyholder or customer that represents 10% or more of the Groups total revenue.
The table below analyses the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Rescue and other Motor Home personal lines Commercial Run-off Total m m m m m m Goodwill 127.7 45.8 28.7 10.1 212.3 Other segment assets 6,654.8 708.8 204.3 1,525.1 642.7 9,735.7 Segment liabilities 4,664.6 496.8 143.2 1,069.0 512.8 6,886.4 Segment net assets 2,117.9 257.8 89.8 466.2 129.9 3,061.6 The segmental analysis of assets and liabilities is prepared using a combination of asset and liability balances directly attributable to each operating segment and an apportionment of assets and liabilities managed at a Group wide level.
This does not represent the Groups view of the capital requirements for its operating segments.
COM 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segmental analysis continued The table below analyses the Groups revenue and results by reportable segment for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Rescue and other Motor Home personal lines Commercial Run-off Total m m m m m m Goodwill 126.7 45.8 28.7 10.1 211.3 Other segment assets 6,748.9 660.5 160.4 1,587.4 753.2 9,910.4 Other segment liabilities 5,131.7 502.2 122.0 1,207.0 637.3 7,600.2 Segment net assets 1,743.9 204.1 67.1 390.5 115.9 2,521.5 The segmental analysis of assets and liabilities is prepared using a combination of asset and liability balances directly attributable to each operating segment and an apportionment of assets and liabilities managed at a Group wide level.
140 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 5.
Net earned premium 2017 2016 m m Gross earned premium: Gross written premium 3,392.1 3,274.1 Movement in unearned premium reserve 52.4 71.3 3,339.7 3,202.8 Reinsurance premium: Premium payable 208.4 206.2 Movement in reinsurance unearned premium reserve 3.7 4.0 204.7 202.2 Total 3,135.0 3,000.6 6.
Investment return 2017 2016 m m Investment income: Interest income from debt securities 137.5 136.5 Cash and cash equivalent interest income 3.0 4.2 Interest income from infrastructure debt 6.8 7.8 Interest income from commercial real estate loans 3.6 1.0 Interest income 150.9 149.5 Rental income from investment property 16.2 18.4 167.1 167.9 Net realised gains losses : AFS debt securities 23.2 15.3 Derivatives 175.0 282.3 Investment property note 19 1.6 1.3 199.8 265.7 Net unrealised losses gains: Impairment of loans and receivables 9.5 Derivatives 202.0 265.2 Investment property note 19 20.0 4.1 191.5 269.3 Total 175.4 171.5 The table below analyses the realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivative instruments included in investment return.
Realised Unrealised Realised Unrealised 2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m Derivative gains losses : 1 Foreign exchange forward contracts 107.8 62.5 425.7 19.1 Associated foreign exchange risk 68.4 259.1 151.0 253.0 Net gains losses on foreign exchange forward contracts 176.2 196.6 274.7 272.1 1 Interest rate swaps 1.8 1.7 16.9 20.7 Associated interest rate risk on hedged items 3.0 3.7 9.3 27.6 Net losses on interest rate derivatives 1.2 5.4 7.6 6.9 Total 175.0 202.0 282.3 265.2 Note: 1.
Foreign exchange forward contracts are at fair value through the income statement and interest rate swaps are designated as hedging instruments.
COM 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Other operating income 2017 2016 m m Vehicle replacement referral income 16.9 14.1 Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 11.3 19.3 Legal services income 11.0 11.2 1 Other income 23.7 13.6 Total 62.9 58.2 Note: 1.
Other income includes salvage income and fee income from insurance intermediary services.
Net insurance claims Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m Current accident year claims paid 1,165.0 0.2 1,164.8 1,131.7 1,131.7 Prior accident year claims paid 847.0 13.8 833.2 905.2 18.8 886.4 Decrease increase in insurance liabilities 440.9 197.1 243.8 142.1 356.4 214.3 Total 1,571.1 183.1 1,754.2 2,179.0 375.2 1,803.8 The table below analyses the claims handling expenses included in the net insurance claims.
Commission expenses 2017 2016 m m Commission expenses 225.4 246.8 Expenses incurred under profit participations 61.0 97.2 Total 286.4 344.0 10.
Operating expenses Restructuring Total Ongoing costs Run-off Total Group 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m 1 Staff costs 268.6 11.5 280.1 1,2 Other operating expenses 273.2 0.4 273.6 Marketing 113.7 113.7 Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 111.0 111.0 Depreciation 27.9 27.9 Total 794.4 11.9 806.3 Notes: 1.
Staff costs and other operating expenses attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to the cost of insurance claims.
Other operating expenses include IT costs, insurance levies, professional fees and property costs.
142 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Restructuring Total Ongoing costs Run-off Total Group 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m 1 Staff costs 269.0 16.0 285.0 1,2, 3 Other operating expenses 250.9 23.9 0.2 275.0 Marketing 112.6 112.6 Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 96.7 96.7 Depreciation 30.1 30.1 Total 759.3 39.9 0.2 799.4 Notes: 1.
A property site in Bristol comprising of freehold property and fixtures and fittings was transferred from freehold property to assets held for sale in 2016.
The property with a carrying value of 23.5 million was remeasured on transfer to its fair value of 3.8 million resulting in a charge to other operating expenses in restructuring of 19.7 million.
The table below analyses the number of people employed by the Groups operations.
At 31 December Average for the year 2017 2016 2017 2016 Operations 9,539 9,692 9,669 9,546 Support 1,269 1,285 1,280 1,353 Total 10,808 10,977 10,949 10,899 The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Groups operations comprised: 2017 2016 m m Wages and salaries 363.6 348.1 Social security costs 40.4 38.9 Pension costs 25.5 24.4 Share-based payments 14.8 16.8 Total 444.3 428.2 The table below analyses Auditors remuneration in respect of the Groups operations.
2017 2016 m m Fees payable for the audit of: The Companys annual accounts 0.3 0.3 The Companys subsidiaries 1.6 1.5 Total audit fees 1.9 1.8 Fees payable for non-audit services: Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.2 Other services 0.1 0.2 Total non-audit services 0.2 0.4 Total 2.1 2.2 WWW.
COM 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Operating expenses continued Aggregate Directors emoluments The table below analyses the total amount of Directors remuneration in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations.
2017 2016 m m Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 5.6 3.1 Gains on exercise of share options 5.3 3.5 Total 10.9 6.6 Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
At 31 December 2017, no Directors 2016: one Director had retirement benefits accruing under the defined contribution pension scheme in respect of qualifying service.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, three Directors exercised share options 2016: one Director.
Finance costs 2017 2016 m m Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 44.8 46.3 1 Net interest received on designated hedging instrument 8.0 8.0 1 Unrealised loss gain on designated hedging instrument 10.4 19.6 1 Unrealised gain loss on associated interest rate risk on hedged item 11.7 17.8 1 Realised gain on associated interest rate risk on hedged item 11.3 Premium paid to repurchase subordinated liabilities and associated transaction costs 77.4 Amortisation of arrangement costs and discount on issue of subordinated liabilities 2.2 0.7 Total 103.8 37.2 Note: 1.
As described in note 32, on 27 April 2012 the Group issued subordinated guaranteed dated notes with a nominal value of 500 million at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year designated hedging instrument to exchange the fixed rate of interest on the notes for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points, which increased to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013.
On 8 December 2017, the Group redeemed 250 million nominal value of the notes.
Tax charge 2017 2016 m m Current taxation: Charge for the year 114.4 84.4 1 Under over provision in respect of prior year 5.3 7.7 119.7 76.7 Deferred taxation note 13 : Credit for the year 5.8 5.1 Over under provision in respect of prior year 8.9 2.6 14.7 2.5 Current taxation 119.7 76.7 Deferred taxation note 13 14.7 2.5 Tax charge for the year 105.0 74.2 Note: 1.
The prior year current tax credit for the year ended 31 December 2016 included 5.6 million relating to retrospective claims for research and development tax relief.
144 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The following table analyses the difference between the actual income tax charge and the expected income tax charge 1 computed by applying the standard rate of corporation tax of 19.25% 2016: 20.0%.
2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 539.0 353.0 Expected tax charge 103.8 70.6 Effects of: Disallowable expenses 5.4 10.6 Non-taxable items 0.3 0.9 Effect of change in corporation taxation rate 0.2 1.0 Over provision in respect of prior year 3.7 5.1 Tax charge for the year 105.0 74.2 Effective income tax rate 19.5% 21.0% Note: 1.
In the Finance No 2 Act 2015 the UK Government enacted a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017, and then the Finance Act 2016 enacted a further reduction to 17% effective from 1 April 2020.
As a consequence, the closing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets or liabilities are settled.
The impact of these changes on the tax charge for the year is set out in the table above.
Current and deferred tax 2017 2016. m m Per balance sheet: Current tax assets 0.1 0.1 Current tax liabilities 40.7 0.5 Deferred tax liabilities 31.1 46.0 The table below analyses the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon.
Provisions Depreciation and other Retirement in excess of NonAFS temporary benefit capital distributable Investment Share-based revaluation 1 differences obligations allowances reserve properties payments reserve Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 3.3 2.4 0.8 28.9 8.4 5.7 29.9 Charge credit to the income statement 0.7 0.4 1.8 5.5 0.2 0.3 2.5 Credit charge to other comprehensive income 0.7 18.0 17.3 Charge direct to equity 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 2016 2.6 2.1 1.0 23.4 8.2 4.1 18.0 46.0 Credit to the income statement 1.5 4.8 8.2 0.2 14.7 Charge credit to other comprehensive income 0.4 2.2 1.8 Charge direct to equity 1.0 1.0 Other movements 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2017 2.0 2.5 0.5 18.6 3.3 15.8 31.1 Note: 1.
The non-distributable reserve was a statutory claims equalisation reserve calculated in accordance with the rules of the PRA.
With the introduction of Solvency II on 1 January 2016, the requirement to maintain this reserve ceased and the balance at 31 December 2015 was released to retained earnings.
The taxation of this release is spread over six years from the change in regulation.
This is provided for in deferred tax above as it represents the future unwind of previously claimed tax deductions for transfers into this reserve.
In addition, the Group has an unrecognised deferred tax asset at 31 December 2017 of 7.4 million 2016: 7.5 million in relation to capital losses of which 4.1 million 2016: 4.1 million relates to realised losses and 3.3 million 2016: 3.4 million relates to unrealised losses.
COM 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Dividends 2017 2016 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: 2016 final dividend of 9.7 pence per share paid on 18 May 2017 132.4 2015 final dividend of 9.2 pence per share paid on 19 May 2016 126.0 2017 first interim dividend of 6.8 pence per share paid on 8 September 2017 92.9 2016 first interim dividend of 4.9 pence per share paid on 9 September 2016 67.1 2016 first special interim dividend of 10.0 pence per share paid on 9 September 2016 136.9 2015 second special interim dividend of 8.8 pence per share paid on 19 May 2016 120.6 225.3 450.6 Proposed dividends: 2017 final dividend of 13.6 pence per share 187.0 2017 special dividend of 15.0 pence per share 206.3 2016 final dividend of 9.7 pence per share 133.4 The proposed final and special dividends for 2017 have not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The trustees of the employee share trusts waived their entitlement to dividends on shares held to meet obligations arising on the Long Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Annual Incentive Plan and Restrictive Share Plan awards, which reduced the total dividend paid for the year ended 31 December 2017 by 1.6 million 2016: 1.8 million.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the year.
Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares.
2017 2016 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 434.0 278.8 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,366.1 1,368.7 Basic earnings per share pence 31.8 20.4 Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the period adjusted for dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has share options and contingently issuable shares as categories of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
2017 2016 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 434.0 278.8 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,366.1 1,368.7 Effect of dilutive potential of share options and contingently issuable shares millions 12.9 13.1 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share millions 1,379.0 1,381.8 Diluted earnings per share pence 31.5 20.2 146 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 16.
Net assets per share and return on equity Net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts.
Tangible net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts.
The table below analyses net asset and tangible net asset value per share.
2017 2016 m m At 31 December Net assets 2,715.1 2,521.5 1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 471.1 508.9 Tangible net assets 2,244.0 2,012.6 Number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,375.0 1,375.0 Shares held by employee share trusts millions 9.9 9.9 Closing number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,365.1 1,365.1 Net asset value per share pence 198.9 184.7 Tangible net asset value per share pence 164.4 147.4 Note: 1.
Goodwill has arisen on acquisition by the Group of subsidiary companies.
Intangible assets are primarily comprised of software development costs.
Return on equity The table below details the calculation of return on equity.
2017 2016 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 434.0 278.8 Opening shareholders equity 2,521.5 2,630.0 Closing shareholders equity 2,715.1 2,521.5 Average shareholders equity 2,618.3 2,575.8 Return on equity 16.6% 10.8% 17.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 211.0 495.2 706.2 Acquisitions and additions 0.3 80.5 80.8 1 Disposals and write-off 5.8 5.8 At 31 December 2016 211.3 569.9 781.2 Acquisitions and additions 1.0 72.2 73.2 At 31 December 2017 212.3 642.1 854.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2016 181.4 181.4 Charge for the year 57.4 57.4 1 Disposals and write-off 5.8 5.8 2 Impairment losses 39.3 39.3 At 31 December 2016 272.3 272.3 Charge for the year 54.1 54.1 2 Impairment losses 56.9 56.9 At 31 December 2017 383.3 383.3 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 212.3 258.8 471.1 At 31 December 2016 211.3 297.6 508.9 Notes: 1.
Disposals and write-off include fully amortised intangible assets no longer utilised by the Group in its operating activities.
The impairment losses relate to capitalised software development costs for ongoing IT projects primarily relating to development of new systems.
The impairment losses result from capitalised costs that will no longer be utilised and the charge which reduced the carrying value of impaired assets to nil, is reflected in the Motor segment.
COM 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Goodwill arose on the acquisition of U K Insurance Limited 141.0 million and Churchill Insurance Company Limited 70.0 million, which is allocated across Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines and Commercial.
The addition to goodwill in the year ended 31 December 2017 of 1.0 million arose as a result of a business combination to expand the Groups accident repair centre network.
The Groups testing for goodwill impairment includes the comparison of the recoverable amount of each CGU to which goodwill has been allocated with its carrying value and updated at each reporting date in the event of indications of impairment.
The table below analyses the goodwill of the Group by CGU.
2017 2016 m m Motor 127.7 126.7 Home 45.8 45.8 Rescue and other personal lines 28.7 28.7 Commercial 10.1 10.1 Total 212.3 211.3 There have been no impairments in goodwill for the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: nil.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU fair value less the costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU.
Fair value is the estimated amount that could be obtained from the sale of the CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs were based on the value-in-use test, using the Groups five-year strategic plan.
The long-term growth rates have been based on GDP rates adjusted for inflation.
The risk discount rates incorporate observable market long-term government bond yields and average industry betas adjusted for an appropriate risk premium based on independent analysis.
The table below details the recoverable amounts in excess of carrying value for the CGUs where goodwill is held.
Assumptions Sensitivity: Impact on recoverable amount of a: Terminal Pre-tax Recoverable 1% decrease in 1% increase in 1% decrease growth discount amount in excess terminal growth pre-tax discount in forecast 1 rate rate of carrying value rate rate pre-tax profit % % m m m m CGU Motor 3.0 11.5 1058.8 84.3 84.3 29.9 Home 3.0 11.5 586.6 60.4 82.9 8.0 Rescue and other personal lines 3.0 11.5 556.6 53.3 72.4 6.5 Commercial 3.0 11.5 529.9 74.0 100.6 9.1 Note: 1.
Reflects a 1% decrease in the profit for each year of the five-year plan.
148 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 18.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold land Other and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 79.0 187.8 266.8 Additions 18.8 31.1 49.9 Disposals 14.3 14.3 Transfer to assets held for sale note 28 18.0 8.3 26.3 At 31 December 2016 79.8 196.3 276.1 Additions 22.4 22.4 Disposals 15.1 15.1 At 31 December 2017 79.8 203.6 283.4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2016 2.4 78.1 80.5 Depreciation charge for the year 1.0 29.1 30.1 Disposals 12.6 12.6 Transfer to assets held for sale note 28 0.3 2.5 2.8 At 31 December 2016 3.1 92.1 95.2 Depreciation charge for the year 1.1 26.8 27.9 Disposals 14.1 14.1 At 31 December 2017 4.2 104.8 109.0 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 75.6 98.8 174.4 At 31 December 2016 76.7 104.2 180.9 The Group is satisfied that the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment is not less than its carrying value.
Investment property 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 329.0 347.4 Additions at cost 1.4 Increase in fair value during the year 21.6 5.4 Disposals 41.3 25.2 At 31 December 309.3 329.0 Note: 1.
The cost included in carrying value at 31 December 2017 is 252.4 million 2016: 275.3 million.
The investment properties are measured at fair value derived from valuation work carried out at the balance sheet date by independent property valuers.
The valuation conforms to international valuation standards.
The fair value was determined using a methodology based on recent market transactions for similar properties, which have been adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property within the portfolio.
This approach to valuation is consistent with the methodology used in the year ended 31 December 2016.
Lease agreements with tenants are drawn up in line with local practice and the Group has no exposure to leases that include contingent rents.
COM 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group, over which it exercises 100% voting power, are shown below.
Their capital consists of Ordinary Shares which are unlisted.
All subsidiaries a full list of which is included in note 2 of the Parent Companys financial statements are included in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Place of incorporation Name of subsidiary and operation Principal activity DL Insurance Services Limited United Kingdom Management services U K Insurance Limited United Kingdom General insurance The Group did not dispose of any subsidiaries in the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
Reinsurance assets 2017 2016 Notes m m Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities 1,141.1 1,329.0 1 Impairment provision 59.9 50.7 33 1,081.2 1,278.3 Reinsurers unearned premium reserve 34 97.3 93.5 Total 1,178.5 1,371.8 Note: 1.
Impairment provision relates to reinsurance debtors allowing for the risk that reinsurance assets may not be collected or where the reinsurers credit rating has been significantly downgraded and it may have difficulty in meeting its obligations.
Movements in reinsurance asset impairment provision 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 50.7 53.9 Additional provision 9.6 4.2 Release to income statement 0.4 7.4 At 31 December 59.9 50.7 22.
Insurance and other receivables 2017 2016 m m Receivables arising from insurance contracts: Due from policyholders 840.4 820.8 Impairment provision of policyholder receivables 1.2 0.3 Due from agents, brokers and intermediaries 71.3 66.4 Impairment provision of agent, broker and intermediary receivables 0.9 1.0 Other debtors 71.6 102.4 Total 981.2 988.3 150 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 24.
Derivative financial instruments 2017 2016 m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 51.1 21.4 Designated as hedging instruments: 1 Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1.0 1.7 Interest rate swaps 32.3 56.6 Total 84.4 79.7 Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 11.3 43.5 Designated as hedging instruments: Interest rate swaps 0.7 1.6 Total 12.0 45.1 Note: 1.
Cash flow hedges in relation to supplier payments.
Retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution scheme The pension charge in respect of the defined contribution scheme for the year ended 31 December 2017 was 25.5 million 2016: 24.9 million.
Defined benefit scheme The Groups defined benefit pension scheme was closed in 2003 although the Group remains the sponsoring employer for obligations to current and deferred pensioners based on qualifying years service and final salaries.
The defined benefit scheme is legally separated from the Group with trustees who are required by law to act in the interests of the scheme and of all the relevant stakeholders.
The trustees of the pension scheme are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the scheme.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2017 is 20 years 2016: 20 years using accounting assumptions.
The table below sets out the principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit scheme obligations.
2017 2016 % % Rate of increase in pension payment 2.2 2.2 Rate of increase of deferred pensions 2.2 2.2 Discount rate 2.5 2.7 Inflation rate 3.3 3.3 No assumption has been made for salary growth as there are no obligations in the scheme that are linked to future increases in salaries.
Post-retirement mortality assumptions 2017 2016 Life expectancy at age 60 now: Males 87.5 88.1 Females 89.2 90.1 Life expectancy at age 60 in 20 years time: Males 89.3 90.3 Females 91.1 92.5 WWW.
COM 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The table below analyses the fair value of the scheme assets by type of asset.
The liquidity fund is an investment in an open-ended fund incorporated in the Republic of Ireland which targets capital stability and income in the UK.
It is invested in short-term fixed income and variable rate securities such as Treasury Bills listed or traded on one or more recognised exchange.
The majority of debt instruments held directly or through the liquidity fund have quoted prices in active markets.
Movement in net pension surplus Present value of Fair value of defined benefit defined benefit scheme Net pension scheme assets obligations surplus m m m At 1 January 2016 85.1 72.0 13.1 Income statement: 1 Net interest income cost 3.2 2.7 0.5 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 13.7 1.2 14.9 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 19.3 19.3 Contributions by employer 2.8 2.8 Benefits paid 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2016 102.5 90.5 12.0 Income statement: 1 Net interest income cost 2.7 2.4 0.3 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 1.0 1.5 2.5 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 3.1 3.1 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 3.5 3.5 Benefits paid 4.5 4.5 At 31 December 2017 101.7 87.3 14.4 Note: 1.
The net interest income cost in the income statement has been included under other operating expenses.
The table below details the history of the scheme for the current and prior years.
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit scheme obligations 87.3 90.5 72.0 79.6 68.0 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 101.7 102.5 85.1 83.1 66.0 Net surplus deficit 14.4 12.0 13.1 3.5 2.0 Experience adjustment gains losses on scheme liabilities 1.5 1.2 1.2 1.0 0.2 Experience adjustment gains losses on scheme assets 1.0 13.7 1.9 12.9 1.3 152 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Sensitivity analysis The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to discounted cash flows as a result of changes to the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions.
The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques.
Impact on present value of defined benefit Impact on pension cost scheme obligations 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Discount rate 0.25% increase in discount rate 0.2 0.2 4.4 4.7 0.25% decrease in discount rate 0.1 0.1 4.4 4.7 Inflation rate 0.25% increase in inflation rate 2.2 2.3 0.25% decrease in inflation rate 2.2 2.3 Life expectancy 1 year increase in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 3.1 2.7 1 year decrease in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 3.1 2.7 The most recent funding valuation of the Groups defined benefit scheme was carried out as at 1 October 2014.
The Group agreed with the trustees to make a contribution of 2.8 million in 2016 with further contributions of up to 1.5 million per annum in 2017 and 2018 to meet the schemes funding requirements.
As a result of a funding update, no contributions are expected to be payable in 2018 2017: nil.
The Group is currently undertaking a funding valuation of the defined benefit scheme as at 1 October 2017, the results of which are due to be agreed with the trustees in 2018.
Financial investments 2017 2016 m m AFS debt securities Corporate 4,170.5 4,183.7 Supranational 43.9 98.6 Local government 12.2 21.7 Sovereign 224.8 341.2 Total 4,451.4 4,645.2 HTM debt securities Corporate 103.6 85.1 Total debt securities 4,555.0 4,730.3 Total debt securities 1 Fixed interest rate 4,540.1 4,709.6 Floating interest rate 14.9 20.7 Total 4,555.0 4,730.3 Loans and receivables Infrastructure debt 316.4 337.0 Commercial real estate loans 169.0 79.7 Total 5,040.4 5,147.0 Note: 1.
The Group swaps a fixed interest rate for a floating rate of interest on its US Dollar, Euro and a small amount of its sterling corporate debt securities by entering into interest rate derivatives.
The hedged amount at 31 December 2017 was 1,591.5 million 2016: 1,593.6 million.
COM 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 258.0 166.6 1 Short-term deposits with credit institutions 1,100.6 999.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1,358.6 1,166.1 2 Bank overdrafts 54.1 55.3 3 Cash and bank overdrafts 1,304.5 1,110.8 Notes: 1.
This represents money market funds with no notice period for withdrawal.
Bank overdrafts represent short-term timing differences between transactions posted in the records of the Group and transactions flowing through the accounts at the bank.
Cash and bank overdrafts disclosure note is included for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits with credit institutions for the year ended 31 December 2017 was 0.29% 2016: 0.45% and average maturity was 10 days 2016: 10 days.
Assets held for sale 2017 2016 m m 1 Freehold property held for sale 4.2 3.8 Note: 1.
The freehold property held for sale at 31 December 2017 relates to Bristol Broad Street which was transferred from property, plant and equipment to assets held for sale in 2016.
The fair value change in 2017 relates to estimated costs to sell.
Share capital 2017 2016 Number Number 2017 2016 millions millions m m Issued and fully paid: equity shares 10 1 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 1,375 1,375 150.0 150.0 11 Note: 1.
The shares have attached to them full voting dividend and capital distribution rights including wind-up : they do not confer any rights of redemption.
Employee trust shares The Group satisfies share-based payments under the Groups share plans primarily through shares purchased in the market and held by employee share trusts.
At 31 December 2017, 9,945,473 Ordinary Shares 2016: 9,946,340 Ordinary Shares were owned by the employee share trusts with a cost of 34.1 million 2016: 34.3 million.
These Ordinary Shares are carried at cost and have a market value of 38.0 million 2016: 36.7 million.
Other reserves Movements in the revaluation reserve for AFS investments 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 92.1 5.4 Revaluation during the year gross 8.8 119.6 Revaluation during the year tax 1.5 20.2 Realised gains gross 23.2 15.3 Realised gains tax 4.0 2.6 At 31 December 80.2 92.1 Capital reserves 2017 2016 m m 1 Capital contribution reserve 100.0 100.0 2 Capital redemption reserve 1,350.0 1,350.0 Total 1,450.0 1,450.0 Notes: 1.
Arose on the cancellation of a debt payable to a shareholder.
Arose on the reduction of nominal value of each share in issue with a corresponding transfer to capital redemption reserve.
154 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 31.
Tier 1 notes 2017 2016 m m Tier 1 notes 346.5 On 7 December 2017, the Group issued 350 million of fixed rate perpetual Tier 1 notes with a coupon rate of 4.75% per annum.
The Group has an optional redemption date of 7 December 2027.
If the notes are not repaid on that date, a fixed rate of interest per annum will be reset.
The notes are direct, unsecured and subordinated obligations of the issuer ranking pari passu and without any preference amongst themselves.
The Tier1 notes are treated as a separate category within equity and the coupon payments are recognised outside of the profit after tax result and directly in shareholders equity.
The Group has the option to cancel the coupon payment which becomes mandatory upon breach or non-compliance with the Group SCR, a breach of the minimum capital requirement or where the Group has insufficient distributable reserves.
Proceeds of this issuance have primarily been used to fund the repurchase of 250 million subordinated guaranteed dated notes which had a market value of 326.8 million see note 32.
Subordinated liabilities 2017 2016 m m Subordinated guaranteed dated notes 264.7 539.6 The subordinated guaranteed dated notes with a nominal value of 500 million were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
The Group has the option, in certain circumstances, to defer interest payments on the notes but to date has not exercised this right.
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Group, and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves.
In the event of a winding-up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other senior creditors have been met.
COM 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Unearned premium reserve Movement in unearned premium reserve Gross Reinsurance Net m m m At 1 January 2016 1,476.6 89.5 1,387.1 Net movement in the year 71.3 4.0 67.3 At 31 December 2016 1,547.9 93.5 1,454.4 Net movement in the year 52.4 3.8 48.6 At 31 December 2017 1,600.3 97.3 1,503.0 WWW.
COM 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Share-based payments The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans in the form of an LTIP, a Restricted Shares Plan, a DAIP and Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans, including both the Free Share awards and a Buy-As-You-Earn Plan, details of which are set out below.
All awards are to be satisfied using market purchased shares.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible to participate in the LTIP with awards granted in the form of nil-cost options.
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued employment by the Group and also the Group achieving predefined performance conditions associated with TSR and RoTE.
For awards made after the 2017 AGM, the Directors will be subject to an additional two-year holding period following the three-year vesting period.
Awards were made in the year ended 31 December 2017 over 4.2 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 15.2 million at the 2017 grant dates 2016: 3.3 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 12.4 million.
The estimated fair value of the LTIP share awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
The table below details the inputs into the model.
2017 2016 Weighted average assumptions during the year: Share price pence 359 368 Exercise price pence 0 0 Volatility of share price 20% 18% Average comparator volatility 30% 29% Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk-free rate 0.2% 0.3% Expected volatility was determined by considering the actual volatility of the Groups share price since its IPO and that of a group of listed UK insurance companies.
Plan participants are entitled to receive additional shares in respect of dividends paid to shareholders over the vesting period.
Therefore no deduction has been made from the fair value of awards in respect of dividends.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Restricted Shares Plan The purpose of the Restricted Shares Plan is to facilitate the wider participation in Group share-based awards to eligible employees.
These awards can be granted at any time during the year, generally have no performance criteria, and vest over periods ranging between one and three years from the date of the grant, subject to continued employment.
During the year awards were made over 1.1 million Ordinary Shares 2016: 0.3 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 3.9 million 2016: 0.9 million using the market value at the date of grant.
Deferred Annual Incentive Plan To incentivise delivery of performance over a one-year operating cycle, Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible for awards under the AIP, of which at least 40% is granted in the form of a nil-cost option under the DAIP with the remainder being settled in cash following year end.
During the year awards were made over 0.9 million Ordinary Shares 2016: 1.0 million Ordinary Shares under this plan with an estimated fair value of 2.9 million 2016: 3.7 million using the market value at the date of grant.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2017 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group for three years from the date of grant.
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Free Share awards In 2016, the Group offered all eligible UK employees a Free Share award granting 71 Ordinary Shares free of charge.
These awards have no performance criteria attached and vest on the third anniversary of the award grant date, subject to completion of three years, continuing employment.
The Group initially granted 0.8 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 2.8 million using the market value at the date of grant.
158 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans: Buy-As-You-Earn Plan The Buy-As-You-Earn Plan entitles employees to purchase shares from pre-tax pay for between 10 and 150 per month and receive one matching share for every two shares purchased.
In the year ended 31 December 2017, matching share awards were granted over 0.4 million Ordinary Shares 2016: 0.4 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 1.3 million 2016: 1.3 million.
The fair value of each matching share award is estimated using the market value at the date of grant.
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the continued employment with the Group together with continued ownership of the associated purchased shares up to the point of vesting.
Movement in total share awards Number of Number of share awards share awards millions millions 2017 2016 At 1 January 18.1 17.2 1 Granted during the year 9.6 7.7 Forfeited during the year 1.3 0.8 Exercised during the year 6.2 6.0 At 31 December 20.2 18.1 Exercisable at 31 December 1.9 2.6 Note: 1.
In accordance with the rules of the LTIP and DAIP award plans, additional awards of 3.0 million shares were granted during the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: 1.9 million in respect of the equivalent dividend.
In respect of the outstanding options at 31 December 2017, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.39 years 2016: 1.39 years.
No share awards expired during the year 2016: nil.
The weighted average share price for awards exercised during the year ended 31 December 2017 was 3.61 2016: 3.68.
The Group recognised total expenses in the year ended 31 December 2017 of 14.8 million 2016: 16.8 million relating to equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
Further information on share-based payments, in respect of Directors, is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
Trade and other payables, including insurance payables 2017 2016 m m Due to agents, brokers and intermediaries 18.2 15.5 Due to reinsurers 74.2 84.1 Due to insurance companies 4.0 4.4 Trade creditors and accruals 282.8 334.7 Other creditors 95.9 98.4 Other taxes 103.9 93.0 Provisions 74.2 64.8 Deferred income 4.8 4.3 Total 658.0 699.2 Movement in provisions during the year Regulatory levies Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2017 28.2 10.1 26.5 64.8 Additional provision 45.6 10.2 36.2 92.0 Utilisation of provision 42.1 11.4 19.9 73.4 Released to income statement 2.5 6.7 9.2 At 31 December 2017 31.7 6.4 36.1 74.2 WWW.
COM 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 37.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 2017 2016 m m Profit for the year 434.0 278.8 Adjustments for: Investment return 175.4 171.5 Instalment income 116.4 107.1 Finance costs 103.8 37.2 Defined benefit pension scheme net interest income 0.3 0.5 Equity-settled share-based payment charge 14.8 16.8 Tax charge 105.0 74.2 Depreciation and amortisation charges 82.0 87.5 Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 56.9 39.3 Impairment provision movements on reinsurance contracts 9.2 3.2 Fair value adjustment impairment charge on assets held for sale freehold property 0.4 19.7 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.7 1.7 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 513.9 272.9 Movements in working capital: Net decrease in net insurance liabilities including reinsurance assets, unearned premium reserves and deferred acquisition costs 186.7 143.1 Net increase in prepayments and accrued income and other assets 15.2 20.1 Net decrease increase in insurance and other receivables 7.1 32.5 Net decrease increase in trade and other payables, including insurance payables 41.2 42.7 Contribution to defined benefit pension scheme 2.8 Cash generated from operations 277.9 117.1 Taxes paid 76.5 83.3 Cash flow hedges 2.6 1.2 Net cash generated from operating activities before investment of insurance assets 204.0 35.0 Interest received 316.6 294.6 Rental income received from investment property 16.2 18.4 Purchases of investment property 1.4 Proceeds on disposal of investment property 41.3 25.2 Proceeds on disposal maturity of AFS debt securities 1,948.4 2,489.9 Net decrease in financial investments: loans and receivables to credit institutions 44.9 Advances made for Infrastructure debt and commercial real estate loans 108.5 97.7 Repayments of infrastructure debt 31.8 11.0 Purchases of AFS debt securities 1,885.4 1,886.5 Purchases of HTM debt securities 18.5 71.0 Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 341.9 827.4 160 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The table below details changes in liabilities arising from the Groups financing activities.
Subordinated Interest rate 1 liabilities swaps 2017 2017 m m At 1 January 2017 539.6 38.4 Repayment of subordinated liabilities 326.8 2 Interest paid on subordinated liabilities 51.6 Interest rate swap cash settlement 19.9 Financing cash flows 378.4 19.9 Premium paid to buy back of debt issued 76.8 Amortisation of arrangement costs and discount on issue of subordinated liabilities 2.2 Accrued interest expense on subordinated liabilities 47.5 Unrealised gain on associated interest rate risk on hedged item 11.7 Realised gain on associated interest rate risk on hedged item 11.3 10.7 Net accrued interest on interest rate swap 1.2 Fair value movement in interest rate swap 11.7 Non-cash changes 103.5 2.2 At 31 December 2017 264.7 16.3 Notes: 1.
The interest rate swaps relate to Groups 10- year designated hedging instrument to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 basis points which was credit value adjusted to 707 basis points with effect from 29 July 2013.
This includes 2.7 million of accrued interest settled in relation to the 250 million of repayment of subordinated guaranteed notes.
Contingent liabilities The Group did not have any material contingent liabilities at 31 December 2017 2016: none.
Commitments Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessee The Group has entered into non-cancellable operating lease agreements for properties, vehicles and other assets.
2017 2016 m m Lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 18.8 18.3 The following table analyses the outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases by the period in which they fall due.
2017 2016 m m Within one year 19.2 17.4 In the second to fifth years inclusive 58.1 54.2 After five years 154.8 159.7 Total 232.1 231.3 Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor The following table analyses future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases in respect of property leased to third-party tenants.
COM 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 40.
Fair value Fair value hierarchy For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable: level 1 financial assets are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market.
In an active market quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
level 2 financial assets and liabilities are measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by prices from observable current market transactions.
These are assets for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but where prices have not been determined in an active market, or financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes or assets that are valued using the Groups own models whereby the majority of assumptions are market-observable.
level 3 fair value measurements used for investment properties, HTM debt securities, infrastructure debt and commercial real estate loans are those derived from a valuation technique that includes inputs for the asset that are unobservable.
Comparison of carrying value to fair value of financial instruments and assets carried at fair value The following table compares the carrying value and the fair value of financial instruments and other assets where the Group discloses a fair value.
Carrying value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Assets held at fair value: Investment property note 19 309.3 309.3 309.3 Derivative assets note 24 84.4 84.4 84.4 AFS debt securities note 26 4,451.4 224.8 4,226.6 4,451.4 Other financial assets: HTM debt securities note 26 103.6 14.4 92.8 107.2 Infrastructure debt note 26 316.4 326.0 326.0 Commercial real estate loans note 26 169.0 169.0 169.0 Total assets 5,434.1 224.8 4,325.4 897.1 5,447.3 Liabilities held at fair value: Derivative liabilities note 24 12.0 12.0 12.0 Other financial liabilities: Subordinated liabilities note 32 264.7 328.7 328.7 Total liabilities 276.7 340.7 340.7 Carrying value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Assets held at fair value: Investment property note 19 329.0 329.0 329.0 Derivative assets note 24 79.7 79.7 79.7 AFS debt securities note 26 4,645.2 341.2 4,304.0 4,645.2 Other financial assets: HTM debt securities note 26 85.1 13.6 74.6 88.2 Infrastructure debt note 26 337.0 339.2 339.2 Commercial real estate loans note 26 79.7 79.8 79.8 Total assets 5,555.7 341.2 4,397.3 822.6 5,561.1 Liabilities held at fair value: Derivative liabilities note 24 45.1 45.1 45.1 Other financial liabilities: Subordinated liabilities note 32 539.6 625.0 625.0 Total liabilities 584.7 670.1 670.1 162 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Differences arise between carrying value and fair value where the measurement basis of the asset or liability is not fair value e. g. assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost.
Fair values of the following assets and liabilities approximate their carrying values: insurance and other receivables: cash and cash equivalents: borrowings: and trade and other payables, including insurance payables excluding provisions.
The movements in assets held at fair value and classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy are within investment property, HTM debt securities, commercial real estate loans and infrastructure debt.
There were no changes in the categorisation of assets between levels 1, 2 and 3 for assets and liabilities held by the Group since 31 December 2016.
Related parties Transactions between the Groups subsidiary undertakings, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and accordingly are not disclosed.
There were no sales and purchases of products and services to or from related parties in the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: nil.
Year end balances arising from sales of products and services to related parties 2017 2016 m m 1 Total 0.2 Note: 1.
This balance relates to an amount recoverable from RBS Group plc, the Groups former parent company and originates from a period when they were still a related party.
Movement in amounts owed by related parties 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 0.2 0.2 Settled in the year 0.2 At 31 December 0.2 Compensation of key management 2017 2016 m m Short-term employee benefits 10.6 8.4 Termination benefits 0.1 Share-based payments 5.5 7.6 Total 16.1 16.1 WWW.
