Additional information To access information, the website requires shareholders Corporate website to quote their Shareholder Reference Number.
Shareholders The Groups corporate website is www.
can find this number on their share certificates.
It contains useful information for the Companys investors and shareholders.
For example, it includes press releases, details of Shareholder warning forthcoming events, essential shareholder information, a dividend Almost five thousand people contact the FCA about share history, a financial calendar, and details of the Companys fraud each year and victims lose an average of 20,000.
You can also subscribe to email news alerts.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure Market investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that prove to The Company has a premium listing on the UK Listing be worthless or non-existent.
Or they can offer to buy shares at Authoritys Official List.
The Companys Ordinary Shares EPIC: an inflated price in return for you paying upfront.
They promise DLG are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
However, if you buy or sell shares in this way, you will probably lose your money.
Share ownership How to avoid share fraud Share capital Remember that FCA-authorised firms are unlikely to contact You can find details of the Companys share capital in you unexpectedly offering to buy or sell shares note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Do not converse with them.
Note the name of the person Dividends and firm contacting you, then end the call The Company pays its dividends in Sterling to shareholders To see if the person and firm contacting you are authorised registered on its register of members at the relevant record date.
by the FCA, check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk Shareholders can arrange to receive their cash dividend Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm: payments in a bank or building society account by copying its website: or giving you false contact details completing a dividend mandate form.
This is available from the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor If you want to phone the caller back, use the firms contact Services PLC Registrar, in the UK.
You can find the details listed on the Financial Services Register at Registrars contact details on page 181.
uk shareholders can access their shareholdings online and If the firm does not have contact details on the Register download a dividend mandate form from the Investor or they tell you the details are out of date, call the FCA Centre.
You can find details of this below.
on 0800 111 6768 Dividend Reinvestment Plan Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
uk consumers scams The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
This enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy Remember that if you buy or sell shares from the Companys Ordinary Shares in the market.
You can an unauthorised firm, you cannot access the find more details on the Companys website.
Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme Shareholder enquiries Get independent financial and professional advice Shareholders with queries about anything relating to their before handing over any money shares can contact our Registrar.
If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is Shareholders should notify the Registrar of any change in Report a scam shareholding details, such as their address, as soon as possible.
If fraudsters approach you, tell the FCA using the share Shareholders can access their current shareholding details fraud reporting form at www.
Investor Centre You can also find out more about investment scams on the same is a free-to-use, secure, self-service website that enables web page.
shareholders to manage their holdings online.
The website allows shareholders to: You can call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. check their holdings: If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, call Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. update their records, including address and direct credit details: access all their securities in one portfolio by setting up a personal account: vote online: and register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
172 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Tips on protecting your shares Dividend tax allowance Keep all your certificates in a safe place.
Alternatively, From April 2016, dividend tax credits were replaced by an consider holding your shares in the UKs electronic annual 5,000 tax-free allowance across an individuals entire registration and settlement system for equity, called share portfolio.
Above this amount, individuals will pay tax CREST, or via a nominee on their dividend income.
The rate of this tax depends on their income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
The Keep correspondence from the Registrar that shows your Company will continue providing registered shareholders shareholder reference number in a safe place, and shred with a confirmation of the dividends paid.
Shareholders should unwanted correspondence include this with any other dividend income they receive when Inform the Registrar as soon as you change your address calculating and reporting total dividend income received to HMRC.
The shareholder is responsible for including all If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a dividend income when calculating tax requirements.
If you change of address and you have not recently moved, have any tax queries, please contact your financial adviser.
contact them immediately Find out when your dividends are paid and contact the Financial calendar Registrar if you do not receive them 2018 Consider having your dividends paid direct into your bank Date Event account.
You will need to complete a dividend mandate form and send it to the Registrar.
This reduces the risk of 27 February Preliminary Results 2017 cheques being stolen or lost in the post 05 April Ex-dividend date for 2017 final dividend If you change your bank account, inform the Registrar 06 April Record date for 2017 final dividend of your new account details immediately 1 02 May Trading update for the first quarter If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers of 2018 registered in the UK or in your country of residence 10 May Annual General Meeting Be aware that the Company will never call you concerning 17 May Payment date for 2017 final dividend investments.
If you receive such a call from a person saying 1 01 August Half Year Report 2018 they represent the Group, please contact the Company 1 09 August Ex-dividend date for 2018 interim Secretary immediately, by calling 44 0 1132 920 667 dividend 1 10 August Record date for 2018 interim dividend Electronic communications and voting 1 07 September Payment date for 2018 interim dividend The Group produces various communications.
Shareholders 1 06 November Trading update for the third quarter of can view these online, download them, or receive paper 2018 copies by contacting the Registrar.
Shareholders, who register their email address with our Annual General Meeting Registrar, or at the Investor Centre, can receive emails with The 2018 AGM will be held on 10 May 2018 at the offices news on events, such as the AGM.
They can also receive of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, shareholder communications electronically, such as the Annual starting at 11.00 am.
All shareholders will receive a separate Report & Accounts and Notice of Meeting.
This will explain the resolutions to be put to the meeting.
Dealing facilities Shareholders who wish to buy, sell or transfer their shares may do so through a stockbroker or a high street bank: or through the Registrars share-dealing facility.
You can call or email the Registrar regarding its share-dealing facility using this contact information: For telephone sales, call 44 0 370 703 0084 between 8.00 am and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays For internet sales, go to www.
You will need your Shareholder Reference Number, as shown on your share certificate, or your welcome letter from the Chairman.
These dates are subject to change.
