FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies Significant accounting policies Marshalls plc the Company is a Public Company limited by shares, incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act and is registered in England and Wales.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Consolidated Financial Statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 14 March 2018.
The Companys registered address is Landscape House, Premier Way, Lowfields Business Park, Elland, HX5 9HT.
The following paragraphs summarise the significant accounting policies of the Group, which have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the EU and therefore the Group Financial Statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and International Financial Reporting Committee relevant to its operations and which are effective in respect of these Financial Statements.
Amendments to IFRSs that are mandatorily effective for the current year In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2017.
Their adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these Financial Statements.
Amendments to IAS 7 The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 7 for the first time in the current year.
The amendments require an entity Disclosure Initiative.
to provide disclosures that enable users of Financial Statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both cash and non-cash changes.
The Groups liabilities arising from financing activities consist of borrowings Note 15 and certain derivatives Note 16.
A reconciliation between the opening and closing balances of these items is provided in Note 16.
Consistent with the transition provisions of the amendments, the Group has not disclosed comparative information for the prior year.
Apart from the additional disclosure in Note 24, the application of these amendments has had no impact on the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
Amendments to IAS 12 The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 12 for the first time in the current year.
The amendments clarify how an entity Recognition of Deferred should evaluate whether there will be sufficient future taxable profits against which it can utilise a deductible temporary Tax Assets for Unrealised difference.
The application of these amendments has had no impact on the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements as Losses.
the Group already assesses the sufficiency of future taxable profits in a way that is consistent with these amendments.
Annual Improvements The Group has adopted the amendments to IFRS 12 included in the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle for the to IFRSs 2014-2016 first time in the current year.
The other amendments included in this package are not yet mandatorily effective and they have Cycle.
not been early adopted by the Group.
IFRS 12 states that an entity need not provide summarised financial information for interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are classified or included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale.
The amendments clarify that this is the only concession from the disclosure requirements of IFRS 12 for such interests.
New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the Group has not applied the following new or revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective and, in some cases, have not yet been adopted by the EU: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and the related Clarifications : IFRS 16 Leases: IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts: IFRS 2 amendments Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions: IFRS 4 amendments Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts: IAS 40 amendments Transfers of Investment Property: IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture: Annual Improvements to IFRSs Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRS 28 2014-2016 Cycle Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: Annual Improvements to IFRSs Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 11 Joint arrangements, IAS 12 Income tax and IAS 23 2015-2017 Cycle borrowing costs: IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advanced Consideration: and IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments.
MARSHALLS PLC 78 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective continued The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above will have a material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group infuture periods, except as noted below: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers supersedes IAS 18, Revenue, and establishes a principles-based approach to revenue recognition and measurement based on the concept of recognising revenue when performance obligations are satisfied.
An assessment of the impact of IFRS15 has been completed and revenue recognition under IFRS 15 is expected to be consistent with the current practice for the Groups revenue.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU, introduces a comprehensive model for the identification of lease arrangements and accounting treatments for both lessors and lessees.
IFRS 16 will supersede the current lease guidance including IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations when it becomes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group currently expects to adopt IFRS 16 for the year ending 31 December 2019.
No decision has been made about whether to use any of the transitional options in IFRS 16.
IFRS 16 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis of whether an identified asset is controlled by a customer.
Distinctions of operating leases off balance sheet and finance leases on balance sheet are removed for lessee accounting, and are replaced by a model where a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability have to be recognised for all leases by lessees i. e. all on balance sheet except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets.
In contrast to lessee accounting, IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17, and continues to require alessorto classify a lease either as an operating lease or a finance lease.
Furthermore, extensive disclosures are required by IFRS 16.
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost subject to certain exceptions less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date.
Subsequently, the lease liability is adjusted for interest and lease payments, as well as the impact of lease modifications, amongst others.
Furthermore, the classification of cash flows will also be affected because operating lease payments under IAS 17 arepresented as operating cash flows: whereas under the IFRS 16 model, the lease payments will be split into a principal and an interest portion which will be presented as financing and operating cash flows respectively.
The Group has established a working group to assess the impact of the new standard.
Work performed includes assessing the accounting impacts of the change, the process of collecting the required data from across the business and the necessary changes to systems and processes.
From work performed to date, it is expected implementation of the new standard will have a significant impact on the consolidated results of the Group.
On adoption, lease agreements will give rise to both a right of use asset and a lease liability for future lease payables.
Depreciation of the right of use asset will be recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis, with interest recognised on the lease liability.
This will result in a change to the profile of the net charge taken to the Statement of Profit or Loss over the life of the lease.
These charges will replace the lease costs currently charged to the Statement of Profit or Loss.
The Directors are currently assessing the potential impact.
It is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the financial effect until the Directors complete the review.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 65.2 million.
IAS 17 does not require the recognition ofany right-of-use asset or liability for future payments for these leases: instead, certain information is disclosed as operating lease commitments inNote25.
"IFRS 9 Financial Instruments"" The Group will apply IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018."
The Group has elected not to restate comparatives on initial application of IFRS 9.
The full impact of adopting IFRS 9 on the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements will depend on the financial instruments that the Group has during 2018 as well as on economic conditions and judgements made as at the year end.
The Group has performed a preliminary assessment of the potential impact of adopting IFRS 9 based on the financial instruments and hedging relationships as at the date of initial application of IFRS 9 1 January 2018.
Classification and measurement With respect to the classification and measurement of financial assets, the number of categories of financial assets under IFRS 9 has been reduced compared to IAS 39.
Under IFRS 9 the classification of financial assets is based both on the business model within which the asset is held and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the asset.
There are 3 principal classification categories for financial assets that are debt instruments: i amortised cost, ii fair value through other comprehensive income FVTOCI and iii fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Equity investments inscope of IFRS 9 are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised in profit or loss unless an irrevocable election is made to recognise gains or losses in other comprehensive income.
Under IFRS 9, derivatives embedded in financial assets are not bifurcated but instead the whole hybrid contract is assessed for classification.
Under IFRS 9, financial assets can be designated as at FVTPL to mitigate an accounting mismatch.
In respect to classification and measurement of financial liabilities, changes in the fair value of a financial liability designated as at FVTPL due to creditrisk are presented in other comprehensive income unless such presentation would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
Based on the Groups preliminary assessment, the change in the classification and measurement of listed redeemable notes will not have a material impact on the Group Financial Statements.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments continued Impairment The impairment model under IFRS 9 reflects expected credit losses, as opposed to only incurred credit losses under IAS 39.
Under the impairment approach in IFRS 9, it is not necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognised.
Instead, an entity always accounts for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit losses.
The amount of expected credit losses should be updated at each reporting date.
The new impairment model will apply to the Groups financial assets that are debt instruments measured at amortised costs or FVTOCI as well as theGroups finance lease receivables, contract assets and issued financial guarantee contracts.
The Group expects to apply the simplified approach to recognise lifetime expected credit losses for its trade receivables, finance lease receivables and contracts assets as required or permitted by IFRS 9.
The Groups preliminary assessment is that the loss allowance for these assets as at 1January2018 is not significantly different to that under IAS 39.
Hedge accounting On initial application of IFRS 9, an entity may choose, as its accounting policy, to continue to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 instead of the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9.
The Group has elected to apply the IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements because they align more closely with the Groups risk management policies.
An assessment of the Groups hedging relationships under IAS 39 has been performed and it has been determined that the relationships will qualify as continuing hedging relationships under IFRS 9. a Statement of compliance The Group Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRSs.
The Parent Company has elected to prepare its Financial Statements inaccordance with FRS 101 and these are presented on pages 112 to 119. b Basis of preparation The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 23.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also set out in the Strategic Report.
In addition, Note 16 includes the Groups policies and procedures for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups funding position are set out in Note 16 and are subject to normal covenant arrangements.
The Groups on-demand overdraft facility is reviewed on an annual basis and the current arrangements were renewed and signed on 1 August 2017.
In the opinion of the Directors there are sufficient unutilised facilities held which mature after 12 months.
The Groups performance is dependent on economic and market conditions, the outlook for which is difficult to predict.
Based on current expectations, the Groups cash forecasts continue to meet half-year and year-end bank covenants and there is adequate headroom which is not dependent on facility renewals.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these Consolidated Financial Statements and are also set out on the Companys website www.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
Sterling is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
These are set out in Note 28 on page 111.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised, if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Judgements made by management in the application of adopted IFRSs that have a significant effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in Note 28.
MARSHALLS PLC 80 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued c Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries which are set out in detail in Note 32 on pages 116 and 117 are entities controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved when the Company: has power over the investee: is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to 1 or more of the 3elements of control listed above.
When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it considers that it has power overthe investee when the voting rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee unilaterally.
The Company considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Companys voting rights in an investee are sufficient to giveit power, including: the size of the Companys holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders: potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties: rights arising from other contractual arrangements: and any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant activities atthe time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders meetings.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company loses control of the subsidiary.
Specifically, the results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the date the Company gains control until the date when the Company ceases to control the subsidiary.
ii Associates equity-accounted investees Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method equity-accounted investees and are recognised initially at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of equity-accounted investees, after adjustment to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from thedate that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity-accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to nil and the recognition offurther losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
iv Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Those interests of non-controlling shareholders that are present ownership interests, entitling their holders to a proportionate share of net assets, are initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at the initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
d Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
For the purposes of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
e Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, fuel pricing and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and transaction costs are recognised in the Income Statement when incurred.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged see accounting policy f. MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued f Hedging i Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
When the forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding policy statement, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income or expense.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship, but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, it no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting.
The cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement and cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
ii Economic hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
g Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see iv below and impairment losses see accounting policy m. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of directly attributable production overheads.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRSs, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plantandequipment.
ii Leased assets Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses see accounting policy m. iii Subsequent costs The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
iv Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation on quarries is based on estimated rates of extraction.
This is based on a comparison between the volume of relevant material extracted in any given period and the volume of relevant material available for extraction.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic life.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The rates are as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2.5 per cent to 5 per cent per annum Short leasehold property over the period of the lease Fixed plant and equipment 3.3 per cent to 25 per cent per annum Mobile plant and vehicles 14 per cent to 30 per cent per annum Quarries based on rates of extraction The residual values, useful economic lives and depreciation methods are reassessed annually.
Assets under construction are not depreciated until they are ready for use.
Site preparation costs associated with the development of new stone reserves are capitalised.
These costs would include: costs of clearing the site including internal and outsourced labour in relation to site workers : professional fees including fees relating to obtaining planning consent : purchase, installation and assembly of any necessary extraction equipment: and costs of testing whether the extraction process is functioning properly net of any sales of test products.
MARSHALLS PLC 82 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued g Property, plant and equipment continued iv Depreciation continued Depreciation commences when commercial extraction commences and is based on the rate of extraction.
In accordance with IAS 37, provision is made for quarry restoration where a legal or constructive obligation exists, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will occur and the financial cost of restoration work can be reliably measured.
The lives of quarries are almost always long and it is difficult to estimate the length with any precision.
The majority of quarry restoration work is undertaken while extracting minerals from new areas backfilling and therefore work can be completed without additional cost.
As a result of the particular characteristics of the Groups quarries, the IAS 37 criteria have not been met to date based on the assets so far acquired and, therefore, no provisions have been recognised.
h Intangible assets i Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2004, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Costs relating to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
On a  basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests either at their fair value or at their proportionate interest in the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets and contingent liabilities acquired.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2017 were not adjusted in preparing the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2017.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under the Groups previous accounting framework.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 were not adjusted in preparing the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004.
Goodwill is subsequently stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is tested annually for impairment see accounting policy m. In respect of equity-accounted investees, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
In respect of acquisitions where there is a contingent consideration element, an accrual is created for the estimated amount payable if it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and this can be measured reliably.
ii Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process meets the recognition criteria for development expenditure as set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
The expenditure capitalised includes all directly attributable costs, from the date which the intangible asset meets the recognition criteria, necessary to create, produce and prepare the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Other development expenditure is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see v overleaf and impairment losses see accounting policy m. iii Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see v overleaf and impairment losses see accounting policy m. Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as an expense as incurred.
iv Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued h Intangible assets continued v Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Goodwill is systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The rates applied are as follows: Customer and supplier relationships 5 to 20 years Patents, trademarks and know-how 2 to 20 years Development costs 10 to 20 years Software 5 to 10 years i Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less impairment losses see accounting policy m. j Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs to completion and of selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in, first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity, which were incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
l Assets classified as held for sale Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within 1 year from the date of classification, and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
m Impairment i Impairment review The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories see accounting policy j, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
A cash generating unit is the group of assets identified on acquisition that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The recoverable amount of assets or cash generating units is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii Reversals of impairments An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
n Share capital i Share capital Share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or if it is redeemable but only at the Companys option.
Dividends on share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity.
Non-equity share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the option of the shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends thereon are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as a financial expense.
MARSHALLS PLC 84 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued n Share capital continued ii Dividends Dividends on non-equity shares are recognised as a liability and accounted for on an accruals basis.
Equity dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
o Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
p Pension schemes i Defined benefit schemes The net obligation in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
If the calculation results in a surplus, the resulting asset is measured at the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan, or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The present value of these economic benefits is discounted by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
When the benefits of the scheme are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in the Income Statement in the period of the scheme amendment.
Actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the Groups obligation in respect of a plan are recognised immediately within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
ii Defined contribution schemes Obligations for contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement as incurred.
q Share-based payment transactions The Group enters into equity settled share-based payment transactions with its employees.
In particular, annual awards are made to employees under the Companys Management Incentive Plan MIP.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
Where appropriate, the fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that do meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
Current tax relief is available as shares vest based on the value at the date of vesting.
A deferred tax asset is recognised at grant date based on the number of shares expected to be issued, at the value at which they are expected to be issued, proportioned in line with the vesting period.
r Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust Transactions of the Group-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are included in the Group Financial Statements.
In particular, the Trusts purchases of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
s Provisions A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it can be measured reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
t Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at the nominal amount discounted if material.
u Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement upon the despatch of goods, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer.
Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales to customers less returns, allowances, rebates and value added tax.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due or the possible return of goods or continuing management involvement with the goods.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued v Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the lease.
ii Finance lease payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
iii Financial expenses Net financial expenses comprise interest on obligations under the defined benefit pension scheme, the expected return on scheme assets under the defined benefit pension scheme, interest payable on borrowings including finance leases calculated using the effective interest rate method, dividends on non-equity shares, interest receivable on funds invested, dividend income, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement see accounting policy f. w Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxation.
Income tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive or in equity, in which case it is .
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxation is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary difference reverses, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred taxation asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred taxation assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
x Segment reporting IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of discrete financial information about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
As far as Marshalls is concerned, the CODM is regarded as being the Executive Directors.
The Directors have concluded that the Groups Landscape Products business is a single reportable segment, which includes the UK operations of the Marshalls Landscape Products hard landscaping business, servicing both the UK Domestic and the Public Sector and Commercial end markets.
Following its acquisition, the CPM business has been included within the Landscape Products operating segment.
Financial information for Landscape Products is now reported to the Groups CODM for the assessment of segment performance and to facilitate resource allocation.
y Alternative performance measures The Group uses alternative performance measures APMs which are not defined or specified under IFRS.
The Group believes that these APMs, which are not considered to be a substitute for IFRS measures, provide additional helpful information.
APMs are consistent with how business performance is planned, reported and assessed internally by management and the Board and provide more meaningful comparative information.
In relation to the year ended 31December 2017 certain APMs are required as a consequence of the acquisition of CPM on 19 October 2017 in order to ensure comparability with the prior year period.
Like-for-like revenue growth Management uses like-for-like revenue growth as it provides a consistent measure of the percentage increase decrease in revenue year on year, excluding the effect of acquisitions.
2017 2016 Increase 000 000 % Reported revenue 430,194 396,922 8% CPM post-acquisition revenue 9,017 Like-for-like revenue 421,177 396,922 6% EBITA and EBITDA EBITA represents earnings before interest, tax and the amortisation of intangibles.
This is a component of the ROCE calculation.
EBITDA is calculated by adding back depreciation to EBITA.
MARSHALLS PLC 86 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued y Alternative performance measures continued EBITA and EBITDA continued 2017 2016 Increase 000 000 % EBITDA 67,895 60,794 12% Depreciation 13,314 12,146 EBITA 54,581 48,648 Amortisation of intangible assets 1,142 1,009 Operating profit 53,439 47,639 12% ROCE Reported ROCE is defined as EBITA divided by shareholders funds plus cash net debt.
2017 2016 000 000 EBITA 54,581 48,648 Shareholders funds 237,627 217,121 Net debt cash 24,297 5,413 261,924 211,708 Reported ROCE 20.8% 23.0% ROCE on a like-for-like basis excluding the impact of CPM includes adjustments to report the calculation on a basis that eliminates the impact of the acquisition of CPM.
This ensures comparability with the prior year period.
2017 2016 Increase 000 000 % Reported EBITA 54,581 48,648 CPM post acquisition EBIT 749 CPM amortisation of intangibles assets 132 Acquisition costs 837 Adjusted EBITA 54,801 48,648 Shareholders funds 237,627 217,121 Net debt cash 24,297 5,413 261,924 211,708 Impact on net debt arising from the acquisition of CPM 41,227 As adjusted 220,697 211,708 ROCE on a like-for-like basis excluding the impact of CPM 24.8% 23.0% 8% 2 Segmental analysis Segment revenues and results 2017 2016 Landscape Landscape Products Other Total Products Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 1 1 Total revenue 339,655 94,622 434,277 311,100 89,070 400,170 Inter-segment revenue 226 3,857 4,083 89 3,159 3,248 1 1 External revenue 339,429 90,765 430,194 311,011 85,911 396,922 1 1 Segment operating profit 56,104 1,873 57,977 50,441 3,157 53,598 Unallocated administration costs 4,538 5,959 Operating profit 53,439 47,639 Finance charges net 1,388 1,593 Profit before tax 52,051 46,046 Taxation 9,925 8,539 Profit after tax 42,126 37,507 1 T he 2017 Half Year Report disclosed the results of the Landscape Products segment on a basis consistent with reporting to the CODM.
In line with the Groups emerging strategy, in the second half of the year, the reporting to the CODM reverted to the 2016 structure with the Natural Stone Paving business reported as part of the Landscape Products segment.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Segmental analysis continued Segment revenues and results continued The Group has 2 customers who each contributed more than 10 per cent of total revenue in the current and prior year.
The Landscape Products reportable segment operates a national manufacturing plan that is structured around a series of production units throughout the UK, in conjunction with a single logistics and distribution operation.
A national planning process supports sales to both of the keyend markets, namely the UK Domestic and Public Sector and Commercial end markets and the operating assets produce and deliver a range ofbroadly similar products that are sold into each of these end markets.
Within the Landscape Products operating segment the focus is on oneintegrated production, logistics and distribution network supporting both end markets.
Following the acquisition, the CPM business has been included within the landscape products operating segment.
Included in Other are the Groups Street Furniture, Mineral Products, Premier Mortars and International operations, which do not currently meet the IFRS 8 reporting requirements.
The accounting policies of the Landscape Products operating segment are the same as the Groups accounting policies.
Segment profit represents the profit earned without allocation of certain central administration costs that are not capable of allocation.
Centrally administered overhead costs that relate directly to the reportable segment are included within the segments results.
Segment assets 2017 2016 000 000 Fixed assets and inventory: 1 Landscape Products 182,391 157,786 1 Other 64,561 57,922 Total segment fixed assets and inventory 246,952 215,708 Unallocated assets 168,494 117,370 Consolidated total assets 415,446 333,078 1 T he 2017 Half Year Report disclosed the results of the Landscape Products segment on a basis consistent with reporting to the CODM.
For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, the Groups CODM monitors the tangible fixed assets and inventory.
Assets used jointly by reportable segments are not allocated to individual reportable segments.
Other segment information Depreciation and amortisation Fixed asset additions 2017 2016 2017 2016 000 000 000 000 1 1 Landscape Products 10,878 9,462 17,041 9,131 1 1 Other 3,578 3,693 5,445 3,883 14,456 13,155 22,486 13,014 1 T he 2017 Half Year Report disclosed the results of the Landscape Products segment on a basis consistent with reporting to the CODM.
Geographical destination of revenue 2017 2016 000 000 United Kingdom 407,215 377,659 Rest of the World 22,979 19,263 430,194 396,922 The Groups revenue is subject to seasonal fluctuations resulting from demand from customers.
In particular, demand is higher in the summer months.
The Group manages the seasonal impact through the use of a seasonal working capital facility.
MARSHALLS PLC 88 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 Net operating costs 2017 2016 000 000 Raw materials and consumables 151,343 142,011 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 7,231 2,591 Personnel costs Note 4 100,811 98,128 Depreciation 13,314 12,146 Amortisation of intangible assets 1,142 1,009 Own work capitalised 1,919 1,381 Other operating costs 106,569 97,069 Operational restructuring costs 1,217 476 Acquisition costs 837 Operating costs 380,545 352,049 Other operating income 2,842 2,157 Net gain on asset and property disposals 948 609 Net operating costs 376,755 349,283 2017 2016 000 000 Net operating costs include: Auditors remuneration see below 211 163 Leasing costs 11,465 10,151 Hire of plant and machinery 4,651 4,943 Research and development costs 3,876 3,364 In respect of the year under review, Deloitte LLP carried out work in relation to: 2017 2016 000 000 Audit of Marshalls plc 25 20 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 166 123 Half-yearly review of Marshalls plc 20 20 211 163 4 Personnel costs 2017 2016 000 000 Personnel costs including amounts charged in the year in relation to Directors : Wages and salaries 80,811 79,605 Social security costs 9,617 9,361 Share-based payments 3,883 3,750 Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 6,500 5,412 Included within net operating costs Note 3 100,811 98,128 Personnel costs relating to restructuring Note 3 1,217 476 Total personnel costs 102,028 98,604 MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4 Personnel costs continued 2017 2016 000 000 Remuneration of Directors: Salary 712 699 Other benefits 39 39 MIP Element A bonus 535 844 MIP Element B bonus 356 339 Amounts receivable under the MIP at the end of the first cycle 2,024 Amounts receivable under the 2005 LTIP 956 Salary supplement in lieu of pension 142 139 Non-Executive Directors fees and fixed allowances 299 310 4,107 3,326 The aggregate of emoluments and amounts receivable under the MIP of the highest paid Director was 2,383,000 2016: 1,913,000, including a salary supplement in lieu of pension of 86,000 2016: 84,000.
There are no Directors to whom retirement benefits are accruing in respect of qualifying services.
As set out in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 60, the Executive Directors receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension equal to their contractual entitlement of 20 per cent of basic salary.
Further details of Directors remuneration, share options, long-term incentive plans and Directors pension entitlements are disclosed in the AnnualRemuneration Report on pages 50 to 63.
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year was: 2017 2016 Number Number Continuing operations 2,307 2,253 5 Financial expenses and income 2017 2016 000 000 a Financial expenses Net interest expense on defined benefit pension scheme 377 445 Interest expense on bank loans, overdrafts and loan notes 1,005 1,143 Finance lease interest expense 6 6 1,388 1,594 b Financial income Interest receivable and similar income 1 Net interest expense on the defined benefit pension scheme is disclosed net of Company recharges.
6 Income tax expense 2017 2016 000 000 Current tax expense Current year 11,554 10,611 Adjustments for prior years 732 921 10,822 9,690 Deferred taxation expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences: Current year 797 1,098 Adjustments for prior years 100 53 Total tax expense 9,925 8,539 MARSHALLS PLC 90 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 Income tax expense continued 2017 2017 2016 2016 % 000 % 000 Reconciliation of effective tax rate Profit before tax 100.0 52,051 100.0 46,046 Tax using domestic corporation tax rate 19.3 10,020 20.0 9,209 Impact of capital allowances in excess of depreciation 0.3 184 0.4 173 Short-term timing differences 1.2 630 1.0 480 Adjustment to tax charge in prior year 1.4 732 2.0 921 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.4 720 1.6 749 Corporation tax charge for the year 20.8 10,822 21.0 9,690 Impact of capital allowances in excess of depreciation 1.2 618 1.0 443 Short-term timing differences 0.2 103 0.1 66 Pension scheme movements 0.1 77 0.3 127 Other items 1.0 532 0.9 397 Adjustment to tax charge in prior year 0.2 100 0.1 53 Impact of the change in the rate of corporation tax on deferred taxation 1.0 531 0.7 319 Total tax charge for the year 19.1 9,925 18.5 8,539 The net amount of deferred taxation debited credited to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year was 21,000 debit 2016:798,000 debit.
The majority of the Groups profits are earned in the UK with the standard rate of corporation tax being 19.25 per cent for the year to 31 December 2017.
Capital allowances are tax reliefs provided in law for the expenditure the Group makes on fixed assets.
The rates are determined by Parliament annually, and spread the tax relief due over a number of years.
This contrasts with the accounting treatment for such spending, where the expenditure on fixed assets is treated as an investment with the cost then being spread over the anticipated useful life of the asset, and or impaired if the value of such assets is considered to have reduced materially.
The different accounting treatment of fixed assets for tax and accounting purposes is one reason why the taxable income of the Group is not the same as its accounting profit.
During the year ended 31 December 2017 the depreciation charge for the year exceeded the capital allowances due to the Group.
Short-term timing differences arise on items such as depreciation in stock and share-based payments because the treatment of such items is different for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences usually reverse in the years following those in which they arise, as is reflected in the deferred tax charge in the Financial Statements.
Adjustments to tax charges arising in earlier years arise because the tax charge to be included in a set of accounts has to be estimated before those financial statements are finalised.
Such charges therefore include some estimates that are checked and refined before the Groups corporation tax returns for the year are submitted to HM Revenue & Customs, which may reflect a different liability as a result.
Some expenses incurred may be entirely appropriate charges for inclusion in the Financial Statements but are not allowed as a deduction against taxable income when calculating the Groups tax liability for the same accounting period.
Examples of such disallowable expenditure include business entertainment costs and some legal expenses.
As can be seen from the tax reconciliation, the process of adjustment that can give rise to current year adjustments to tax charges arising in previous periods can also give rise to revisions in prior year deferred tax estimates.
This is why the current year adjustments to the current year charge for capital allowances and short-term timing differences are not exactly replicated in the deferred taxation charge for the year.
The Groups overseas operations comprise a manufacturing operation in Belgium and sales and administration offices in the USA, China and Dubai.
The sales of these units, in total, were less than 5 per cent of the Groups turnover in the year ended 31 December 2017.
In total, the trading profits were not material and no tax was due.
7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share of 21.52 pence 2016: 18.95 pence per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to Ordinary Shareholders for the financial year, after adjusting for non-controlling interests, of 42,503,000 2016: 37,350,000 by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 197,518,109 2016: 197,130,419.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7 Earnings per share continued Profit attributable to Ordinary Shareholders 2017 2016 000 000 Profit for the financial year 42,126 37,507 Loss profit attributable to non-controlling interests 377 157 Profit attributable to Ordinary Shareholders 42,503 37,350 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 2017 2016 Number Number Number of issued Ordinary Shares 199,378,755 199,378,755 Effect of shares transferred into employee benefit trust 1,860,646 2,248,336 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares at end of the year 197,518,109 197,130,419 Diluted earnings per share of 21.37 pence 2016: 18.61 pence per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year, after adjusting for non-controlling interests, of 42,503,000 2016: 37,350,000 by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 197,518,109 2016: 197,130,419 plus potentially dilutive shares of 1,384,707 2016: 3,561,243, which totals 198,902,816 2016: 200,691,662.
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares diluted 2017 2016 Number Number Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 197,518,109 197,130,419 Potentially dilutive shares 1,384,707 3,561,243 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares diluted 198,902,816 200,691,662 8 Dividends After the balance sheet date a final dividend of 6.80 pence 2016: 5.80 pence per qualifying Ordinary Share was proposed by the Directors.
In addition a supplementary dividend of 4.00 pence 2016: 3.00 pence per qualifying Ordinary Share was proposed by the Directors.
These dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
The total dividends proposed in respect of the year are as follows: Pence per 2017 2016 qualifying share 000 000 2017 supplementary 4.00 7,904 2017 final 6.80 13,436 2017 interim 3.40 6,718 14.20 28,058 2016 supplementary 3.00 5,927 2016 final 5.80 11,460 2016 interim 2.90 5,720 11.70 23,107 The following dividends were approved by the shareholders and recognised in the year: Pence per 2017 2016 qualifying share 000 000 2017 interim 3.40 6,718 2016 supplementary 3.00 5,927 2016 final 5.80 11,460 12.20 24,105 2016 interim 2.90 5,720 2015 supplementary 2.00 3,945 2015 final 4.75 9,369 9.65 19,034 MARSHALLS PLC 92 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 Dividends continued The Board recommends a 2017 final dividend of 6.80 pence per qualifying Ordinary Share amounting to 13,436,000, alongside a supplementary dividend of 4.00 pence per qualifying Ordinary Share amounting to 7,904,000, to be paid on 29 June 2018 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 8 June 2018.
Assets disclosed as held for sale as at 31 December 2016 have been disposed of in the year ended 31 December 2017.
The carrying amount of tangible fixed assets includes 402,000 2016: 402,000 in respect of land assets held under finance leases.
Group cost of landand buildings and plant and machinery includes 1,484,000 2016: nil and 7,105,000 2016: 999,000 respectively for assets in the course ofconstruction.
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated across cash generating units CGUs and theseCGUs are independent sources of income streams and represent the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
MARSHALLS PLC 94 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 Intangible assets continued The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations and at both 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 the full amount of goodwill in the Group Balance Sheet related to the Landscape Products CGU.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of CPM is included within the landscape products CGU.
These calculations use cash flow projections based on a combination of individual financial 5-year forecasts, containing assumptions for revenue growth and operational gearing, and appropriate long-term growth rates of 2.45 per cent.
To prepare value-in-use calculations, the cash flow forecasts are discounted back to present value using an appropriate market-based discount rate.
The pre-tax discount rate used to calculate the value in use was 9.8 per cent 2016: 9.5 per cent.
The Directors have reviewed the recoverable amounts of the CGUs and do not consider that any reasonable change in the assumptions would give rise to the need for further impairment.
Included in software additions is 910,000 2016: 819,000 of own work capitalised.
Amortisation charge The amortisation charge is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement: 2017 2016 000 000 Net operating costs Note 3 1,142 1,009 11 Inventories 2017 2016 000 000 Raw materials and consumables 15,690 13,788 Finished goods and goods for resale 62,169 54,925 77,859 68,713 Inventories stated at a net realisable value less than cost at 31 December 2017 amounted to 4,148,000 2016: 7,848,000.
The write down of inventories made during the year amounted to 1,477,000 2016: 2,868,000.
There were 73,000 reversals of inventory write-downs made in previous years in 2017 2016:nil.
12 Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 000 000 Trade receivables 47,925 42,133 Other receivables 15,839 3,003 Prepayments and accrued income 4,457 3,874 68,221 49,010 Included within other receivables is a reimbursement asset of 12,000,000 which is held in escrow in relation to the acquisition of CPM Group Limited Note 22.
Ageing of trade receivables 2017 2016 000 000 Neither impaired nor past due 21,363 23,687 Not impaired but overdue by less than 30 days 19,117 14,499 Not impaired but overdue by between 30 and 60 days 3,653 2,032 Not impaired but overdue by more than 60 days 3,792 1,915 47,925 42,133 Receivables totalling nil 2016: 208,000 were due after more than 1 year.
All amounts disclosed above are considered recoverable and are disclosed net of an allowance for doubtful debts of 609,000 2016: 804,000.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13 Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 000 000 Bank balances 19,833 20,661 Cash in hand 12 20 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 19,845 20,681 14 Trade and other payables 2017 2016 000 000 Current liabilities Trade payables 52,180 36,605 Taxation and social security 10,449 9,217 Other payables 15,056 19,148 Accruals 19,867 14,676 97,552 79,646 All trade payables are due in 6 months or less.
15 Loans 2017 2016 000 000 Current liabilities Finance lease liabilities 35 34 Non-current liabilities Bank loans 43,883 14,975 Finance lease liabilities 224 259 44,107 15,234 Bank loans The bank loans are secured by intra-group guarantees with certain subsidiary undertakings.
Finance lease liabilities 2017 2016 Minimum Minimum lease lease payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal 000 000 000 000 000 000 Less than 1 year 40 5 35 40 6 34 1 to 2 years 40 4 36 40 5 35 2 to 5 years 120 10 110 120 11 109 In more than 5 years 80 2 78 120 5 115 280 21 259 320 27 293 MARSHALLS PLC 96 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 Financial instruments The Group holds and uses financial instruments to finance its operations and to manage its interest rate, liquidity and currency risks.
The Group primarily finances its operations using share capital, retained profits and borrowings.
The Groups bank loans are non-equity funding instruments, further details of which are set out on page 100.
As directed by the Board, the Group does not engage in speculative activities using derivative financial instruments.
Group cash reserves are held centrally to take advantage of the most rewarding short-term investment opportunities.
Forward foreign currency contracts are used in the management of currency risk.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and pricing risk.
The Board reviews and agrees the policies for managing each of these risks and they have remained unchanged since 2016.
Capital management The Group defines the capital that it manages as its total equity and net debt balances.
The Group manages its capital structure in light of current economic conditions and its strategic objectives to ensure that it is able to continue as a going concern whilst maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of debt and equity balances.
The Group manages its medium-term bank debt to ensure continuity of funding and the policy is to arrange funding ahead of requirements andtomaintain sufficient undrawn committed facilities.
A key objective is to ensure compliance with the covenants set out in the Groups .
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares on the market: the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.
Primarily the shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Groups incentive schemes.
Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board.
There has been no change in the objectives, policies or processes with regard to capital management during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
Financial risks The Group has exposure to a number of financial risks through the conduct of its operations.
Risk management is governed by the Groups operational policies, guidelines and authorisation procedures, which are outlined in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 33.
The key financial risks resulting from financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, foreign currency risk and pricing risk.
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Groups earnings.
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
For instance, a weakening of Pound Sterling on the foreign currency market would increase the cost of certain raw materials, whereas a strengthening would have the opposite effect.
a Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due and does so by monitoring cash flow forecasts and budgets.
Cash resources are largely and normally generated through operations and short-term flexibility is achieved by bank facilities.
Bank debt is raised centrally and the Group aims to maintain a balance between flexibility and continuity of funding by having a range of maturities on its borrowings.
Details of the Group borrowing facilities are provided on page 101. b Interest rate risk The Groups policy is to review regularly the terms of its available short-term borrowing facilities and to assess individually and manage each long-term borrowing commitment accordingly.
The Group borrows principally at floating rates of interest and, where appropriate, uses interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile, thereby managing the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Approximately 60 to 70 per cent of core debt is covered by interest rate swaps of varying maturities, which reflects the maturity dateof the related loans and medium-term requirements, in accordance with Group policy.
The Group classifies its interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is a 14,000 asset 2016: 49,000 liability and is adjusted against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis.
The period that the swaps cover is matched against the debt maturity in order to fix the impact on the Income Statement.
During the year 23,000 2016: nil has been recognised in other comprehensive income for the year with 43,000 2016: 75,000 being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement.
The interest rate swaps have been fully effective in the period.
With the addition of the fuel hedges Note 16 e and forward contracts this gives a total of 146,000 credit 2016: 1,123,000 credit recognised in other comprehensive income for the year with 385,000 debit 2016: 1,681,000 credit being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 Financial instruments continued Financial risks continued b Interest rate risk continued Sensitivity analysis A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would have decreased equity and profit by the amounts shown below.
The sensitivity analysis has been undertaken before the effect of tax.
The sensitivity analysis of the Groups exposure to interest rate risk has been determined based on the change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the reporting period.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant and considers the effect of financial instruments with variable interest rates, financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss or available for sale with fixed interest rates and the fixed rate element of interest rate swaps.
The analysis was performed on the same basis for 2016.
2017 2016 000 000 Increase of 100 basis points 211 185 Decrease of 100 basis points 211 185 c Credit risk Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount and, where appropriate, credit insurance cover is obtained.
This provides excellent intelligence to minimise the number and value of bad debts and ultimately provides compensation if bad debts are incurred.
An ageing of trade receivables is shown in Note 12 on page 95.
Investments are allowed only in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have a credit rating equal to or better than the Group.
Transactions involving derivative financial instruments are with counterparties with whom the Group has a signed netting agreement as well as sound credit ratings.
Given their high credit ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet.
d Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than Sterling.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily Euros and US Dollars.
The Groups policy is to cover all significant foreign currency commitments in respect of trade receivables and trade payables by using forward foreign currency contracts.
All the forward exchange contracts have maturities of less than 1 year after the balance sheet date.
Where necessary, the forward exchange contracts are rolled over at maturity.
The Group classifies its forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is 42,000 asset 2016: 30,000 asset and is adjusted against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis.
At 31 December 2017 all outstanding forward exchange contracts had a maturity date within 6 months.
This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the balance sheet date and had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date.
MARSHALLS PLC 98 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 Financial instruments continued Financial risks continued d Foreign currency risk continued This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other exchange rates and interest rates, remain constant.
The analysis was performed on the same basis for 2016: 2017 2016 000 000 10 per cent strengthening of against 1,953 1,565 10 per cent weakening of against 1,598 1,280 10 per cent strengthening of against $ 41 142 10 per cent weakening of against $ 33 117 10 per cent strengthening of against Dhs 9 6 10 per cent weakening of against Dhs 7 9 e Pricing risks Where appropriate the Group uses hedging instruments to mitigate the risks of significant forward price rises of fuel in relation to expected consumption.
The current hedges held are in place until 31 December 2017.
The Group classifies its fuel hedges as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
The fair value of the fuel hedges is 391,000 asset 2016: 676,000 asset and is adjusted against the hedging reserve on an ongoing basis.
The period that the fuel hedges cover is matched against future expected purchases in order to fix the impact on the Income Statement.
During the year 123,000 2016: 1,123,000 has been recognised in other comprehensive income, with 428,000 2016: 1,606,000 being reclassified from equity to the Income Statement.
The fuel hedges have been fully effective in the period.
f Other risks Further information about the Groups strategic and financial risks is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 33.
Effective interest rates and maturity of liabilities At 31 December 2017 there were 259,000 2016: 293,000 of Group borrowings on a fixed rate.
Interest rate swaps have been taken out with the intention to fix the interest on approximately 60 to 70 per cent of the Groups core debt.
The interest rate profile of the financial liabilities was: Fixed or Effective 6 months 6 12 More than variable interest rate Total or less months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years rate % 000 000 000 000 000 000 31 December 2017 Cash and cash equivalents Note 13 Variable 1.97 19,845 19,845 Bank loans Variable 1.97 43,883 14,500 24,239 5,144 Finance lease liabilities Fixed 10.0 259 35 36 110 78 24,297 19,845 14,535 24,275 5,254 78 Fixed or Effective 6 months 6 12 More than variable interest rate Total or less months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years rate % 000 000 000 000 000 000 31 December 2016 Cash and cash equivalents Note 13 Variable 1.50 20,681 20,681 Bank loans Variable 1.50 14,975 10,048 4,927 Finance lease liabilities Fixed 10.0 293 34 35 109 115 5,413 20,681 34 10,083 5,036 115 MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 Financial instruments continued Financial risks continued f Other risks continued Effective interest rates and maturity of liabilities continued At 31 December the undiscounted outstanding contractual payments including interest of financial liabilities were as follows: Fixed or Carrying 6 months 6 12 More than variable value Total or less months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years rate 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 31 December 2017 Bank loans Variable 43,883 44,519 244 14,665 24,427 5,183 Trade payables Variable 52,180 52,180 52,180 Finance lease liabilities Fixed 259 280 3 37 40 120 80 Derivative financial assets Fixed 447 391 236 155 95,875 96,588 52,191 14,547 24,467 5,303 80 Fixed or Carrying 6 months 6 12 More than variable value Total or less months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years rate 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 31 December 2016 Bank loans Variable 14,975 15,182 43 43 10,108 4,988 Trade payables Variable 36,605 36,605 36,605 Finance lease liabilities Fixed 293 320 3 37 40 120 120 Derivative financial assets Fixed 657 624 416 208 51,216 51,483 36,235 128 10,148 5,108 120 Borrowing facilities The total bank borrowing facilities at 31 December 2017 amounted to 115.0 million 2016: 95.0 million, of which 71.1 million 2016: 80.0 million remained unutilised.
There are additional seasonal bank working capital facilities of 10.0 million available between 1 February and 31 August each year.
The undrawn facilities available at 31 December 2017, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met, were as follows: 2017 2016 000 000 Committed: Expiring in more than 2 years but not more than 5 years 50,617 65,025 Expiring in 1 year or less 5,500 Uncommitted: Expiring in 1 year or less 15,000 15,000 71,117 80,025 On 17 August 2017, the Group renewed its short-term working capital facilities of 25.0 million.
On 16 October 2017 the Group took out an additional committed facility of 20.0 million with a 2022 maturity date.
The committed facilities are all revolving credit facilities with interest charged at variable rates based on LIBOR.
The Groups bank facilities continue to be aligned with the current strategy to ensure that headroom against available facilities remains at appropriate levels.
MARSHALLS PLC 100 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 Financial instruments continued Borrowing facilities continued The maturity profile of borrowing facilities is structured to provide balanced, committed and phased medium-term debt.
The current facilities are set out as follows: Cumulative Facility facility 000 000 Committed facilities Q3: 2022 20,000 20,000 Q3: 2021 20,000 40,000 Q3: 2020 20,000 60,000 Q3: 2019 20,000 80,000 Q3: 2018 20,000 100,000 On-demand facilities Available all year 15,000 115,000 Seasonal February to August inclusive 10,000 125,000 Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities A comparison by category of the book values and fair values of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group at 31 December 2017 is shown below: 2017 2016 Book amount Fair value Book amount Fair value 000 000 000 000 Trade and other receivables 62,787 62,787 46,033 46,033 Cash and cash equivalents 19,845 19,845 20,681 20,681 Bank loans 43,883 42,836 14,975 14,192 Finance lease liabilities 259 280 293 320 Trade and other payables 95,777 95,777 70,939 70,939 Interest rate swaps, forward contracts and fuel hedges 447 447 657 657 Financial instrument assets and liabilities net 56,840 18,836 Non-financial instrument assets and liabilities net 294,467 235,957 237,627 217,121 Estimation of fair values The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
a Derivatives Derivative contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price at the relevant rate anddeducting the current spot rate.
For interest rate swaps, broker quotes are used.
b Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fair value is calculated based on the expected future principal and interest cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the balancesheetdate.
c Finance lease liabilities The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease agreements.
Theestimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
d Trade and other receivables payables For receivables payables with a remaining life of less than 1 year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All other receivables payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16 Financial instruments continued Borrowing facilities continued Estimation of fair values continued e Fair value hierarchy The table below analyses financial instruments, measured at fair value, into a fair value hierarchy based on the valuation techniques used to determine fair value.
Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 31 December 2017 Derivative financial assets 447 447 31 December 2016 Derivative financial assets 657 657 17 Employee benefits The Company sponsors a funded defined benefit pension scheme in the UK the Scheme.
The Scheme is administered within a trust which is legally separate from the Company.
The Trustee Board is appointed by both the Company and the Schemes membership and acts in the interest ofthe Scheme and all relevant stakeholders, including the members and the Company.
The Trustee is also responsible for the investment of the Schemes assets.
The defined benefit section of the Scheme provides pension and lump sums to members on retirement and to dependants on death.
The defined benefit section closed to future accrual of benefits on 30 June 2006 with the active members becoming entitled to a deferred pension.
Members nolonger pay contributions to the defined benefit section.
Company contributions to the defined benefit section after this date are used to fund any deficit in the Scheme and the expenses associated with administering the Scheme, as determined by regular actuarial valuations.
The Trustee is required to use prudent assumptions to value the liabilities and costs of the Scheme whereas the accounting assumptions must bebest estimates.
The defined benefit section of the Scheme poses a number of risks to the Company, for example longevity risk, investment risk, interest rate risk, inflation risk and salary risk.
The Trustee is aware of these risks and uses various techniques to control them.
The Trustee has a number of internal control policies, including a risk register, which are in place to manage and monitor the various risks it faces.
The Trustees investment strategy incorporates the use of liability-driven investments LDIs to minimise sensitivity of the actuarial funding position to movements in interest rates and inflation rates.
The defined benefit section of the Scheme is subject to regular actuarial valuations, which are usually carried out every 3 years.
The next actuarial valuation is expected to be carried out with an effective date of 5 April 2018.
These actuarial valuations are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 2004 and so include deliberate margins for prudence.
This contrasts with these accounting disclosures which are determined using best estimate assumptions.
A formal actuarial valuation was carried out as at 5 April 2015.
The results of that valuation have been projected to 31 December 2017 by a qualified independent actuary.
The figures in the following disclosure were measured using the projected unit method.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet were as follows: 2017 2016 2015 000 000 000 Present value of Scheme liabilities 350,554 355,793 298,812 Fair value of Scheme assets 354,681 360,069 302,239 Net amount recognised at year end before any adjustments for deferred tax 4,127 4,276 3,427 MARSHALLS PLC 102 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 Employee benefits continued The current and past service costs, settlements and curtailments, together with the net interest expense for the year, are included in the employee benefits expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit surplus are included in other comprehensive income.
2017 2016 000 000 Net interest expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 477 545 Remeasurements of the net liability: Return on scheme assets excluding amount included in interest expense 2,819 59,837 Loss arising from changes in financial assumptions 10,158 62,332 Gain arising from changes in demographic assumptions 7,667 Experience gain 3,889 Credit recorded in other comprehensive income 328 1,394 Total defined benefit charge credit 149 849 The principal actuarial assumptions used were: 2017 2016 000 000 Liability discount rate 2.50% 2.65% Inflation assumption RPI 3.15% 3.20% Inflation assumption CPI 2.15% 2.20% Rate of increase in salaries n a n a Revaluation of deferred pensions 2.15% 2.20% Increases for pensions in payment: CPI pension increases maximum 5% p. a.
2.15% 2.20% CPI pension increases maximum 5% p. a. minimum 3% p. a.
3.20% 3.10% CPI pension increases maximum 3% p. a.
1.95% 2.10% Proportion of employees opting for early retirement 0% 0% Proportion of employees commuting pension for cash 50.0% 50.0% Mortality assumption before retirement Same as Same as post retirement post retirement Mortality assumption after retirement males S2PMA tables S2PMA tables Loading 105% 105% Projection basis Year of birth Year of birth CMI 2016 1.0% CMI 2015 1.0% Mortality assumption after retirement females S2PFA tables S2PFA tables Loading 105% 105% Projection basis Year of birth Year of birth CMI 2016 1.0% CMI 2015 1.0% Future expected lifetime of current pensioner at age 65: Male aged 65 at year end 86.2 86.5 Female aged 65 at year end 88.0 88.5 Future expected lifetime of future pensioner at age 65: Male aged 45 at year end 87.2 87.8 Female aged 45 at year end 89.2 89.8 MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17 Employee benefits continued Changes in the present value of assets over the year 2017 2016 000 000 Fair value of assets at start of the year 360,069 302,239 Interest income 9,313 10,943 Return on assets excluding amount included in net interest expense 2,819 59,837 Benefits paid 16,937 12,291 Administration expenses 583 659 Fair value of assets at end of the year 354,681 360,069 Actual return on assets over the year 12,132 70,922 Changes in the present value of liabilities over the year 2017 2016 000 000 Liabilities at start of the year 355,793 298,812 Interest cost 9,207 10,829 Remeasurement losses gains : Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 10,158 62,332 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 7,667 Other experience gains 3,889 Benefits paid 16,937 12,291 Liabilities at end of the year 350,554 355,793 The split of the Schemes liabilities by category of membership is as follows: 2017 2016 000 000 Deferred pensioners 193,464 195,742 Pensioners in payment 157,090 160,051 350,554 355,793 Average duration of the Schemes liabilities at the end of the year in years 18 18 The major categories of Scheme assets are as follows: 2017 2016 000 000 Return-seeking assets UK equities 42,464 37,333 Overseas equities 20,015 17,348 Other equity type investments 41,784 39,739 Total return-seeking assets 104,263 94,420 Other Insured pensioners 819 1,251 Cash 575 7,165 Liability-driven investments 249,024 257,233 Total matching assets 250,418 265,649 Total market value of assets 354,681 360,069 The return-seeking assets and LDI assets have quoted prices in active markets.
The valuation of the insured pensions has been taken as the value of the corresponding liabilities assessed using the assumptions set out above.
The Scheme has no investments in the Company or in property occupied by the Company.
The Company expects to pay no contributions to the defined benefit section of the Scheme during the year ended 31 December 2018.
MARSHALLS PLC 104 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 Employee benefits continued Sensitivity of the liability value to changes in the principal assumptions If the discount rate were 0.1 per cent higher lower, the defined benefit section Scheme liabilities would decrease by approximately 6.6 million increase by 6.9 million if all the other assumptions remained unchanged.
If the inflation assumption were 0.1 per cent higher lower, the Scheme liabilities would increase by 2.7 million decrease by 2.7 million.
In this calculation all assumptions related to the inflation assumption have been appropriately adjusted, that is salary, the deferred pension and pension in payment increases.
The other assumptions remain unchanged.
If life expectancies were to increase decrease by 1 year, the Scheme liabilities would increase by 15.8 million decrease by 15.6 million if all the other assumptions remained unchanged.
Share-based payments Marshalls plc 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP was replaced in 2014 by the Management Incentive Plan MIP and accordingly no further share-based payment awards were made during the year ended 31 December 2017 under the LTIP.
The remaining LTIP awards made in respect of the 2014 scheme year were subject to the achievement of a 3-year performance target.
The awards vested on 15 March 2017.
Details of the performance criteria applicable to 2014 LTIP awards were set out in the Remuneration Report in the 2016 Annual Report.
Weighted average Weighted average share price at share price at date of grant Number of date of grant Number of pence per share options pence per share options 2017 2017 2016 2016 Outstanding at 1 January 172 693,479 141 1,647,146 Lapsed 172 51,051 180 27,108 Exercised 172 642,428 139 926,559 Outstanding at 31 December 172 693,479 The Companys share price at 31 December 2017 was 454.90 pence.
Management Incentive Plan MIP Share-based payment awards have been made during the year in accordance with the rules of the MIP.
Full details of the performance criteria and the basis of operation of the MIP are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 53.
Equity settled awards are settled by physical delivery of shares.
The following equity settled awards have been granted: Number of instruments 000 Date of grant Vesting period Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 318,631 820 11 April 2014 4 years Equity settled awards granted to other employees 347,801 929 11 April 2014 4 years Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 276,140 983 10 March 2015 3 years Equity settled awards granted to other employees 350,577 1,250 10 March 2015 3 years Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 417,093 1,476 11 March 2016 2 years Equity settled awards granted to other employees 557,129 1,985 11 March 2016 2 years Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 283,385 1,247 15 March 2017 4 years Equity settled awards granted to other employees 380,310 1,674 15 March 2017 4 years 2,931,066 10,364 Analysis of closing balance deferred into shares : 2017 2016 000 Shares 000 Shares Equity settled awards granted to Directors of Marshalls plc 4,526 1,295,249 3,144 1,074,635 Equity settled awards granted to other employees 5,838 1,635,817 3,990 1,364,249 10,364 2,931,066 7,134 2,438,884 MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17 Employee benefits continued Share-based payments continued Management Incentive Plan MIP continued 2017 2016 Value Number of Value Number of 000 options 000 options Outstanding at 1 January 7,134 2,438,884 5,504 1,693,639 Granted 2,921 663,695 2,757 942,785 Change in value of notional shares 1,145 19,286 106 222,456 Element released 836 190,799 1,021 419,996 Outstanding at 31 December 10,364 2,931,066 7,134 2,438,884 The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments were as follows: 2017 2016 000 000 Awards granted and total expense recognised as employee costs 5,218 3,428 Further details in relation to the Directors are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 63.
Included in the total expense of 5,218,000 2016: 3,428,000 is an amount of 1,804,000 2016: 525,000 which is expected to be settled as interim cash payments under the terms of the scheme and which has been included within wages and salaries in Note 3 and accruals in Note 14.
Employee Bonus Share Plan A Bonus Share Plan was approved by shareholders in May 2015 under which a number of senior management employees were granted performance related bonuses with an element of this bonus being in the form of shares.
The bonus performance criteria are the same as those applicable to the MIP awards and are in relation to the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
The bonus shares take the form of nil-cost options to acquire shares at the end of a 3-year vesting period from the date of grant, and vesting is conditional on continued employment at the end of the vesting period.
Awards are made to participants following publication of the Groups year-end results.
Awards outstanding at 31December 2017 were over 328,267 shares 31 December 2016: 55,587.
The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share-based payments were 169,000 2016: 116,000.
All-employee Sharesave SAYE scheme On 5 October 2015 options were granted over 1,000,000 shares to employees who had subscribed to the SAYE scheme.
The option price is 291 pence, a discount of 20 per cent to the market price on the date of grant.
The option is exercisable by relevant employees after a period of 3 years.
The total expense recognised for the year arising from share-based payments was 300,000 2016: 300,000.
Employee profit sharing scheme At 31 December 2017 the scheme held 42,328 2016: 42,328 Ordinary Shares in the Company.
18 Provisions Legal and regulatory provisions 000 At 1 January 2017 On acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 11,840 At 31 December 2017 11,840 Provisions have been made for the estimated cost of settlement of certain legal and regulatory matters relating to the CPM Group Limited business acquired during the year, reflecting the Directors estimate of the likely outflow from settlement of these matters.
These provisions are expected to be settled within the next 2 years.
As explained in Note 12, the Group has a right of access to the cash paid into an escrow account at the date of acquisition to be used to settle these matters to the extent that a liability crystallises.
MARSHALLS PLC 106 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 Deferred taxation Recognised deferred taxation assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities 2017 2016 2017 2016 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 10,545 10,838 Intangible assets 1,351 265 Inventories 368 377 Employee benefits 702 727 Equity settled share-based payments 2,775 1,821 Other items 2,020 1,448 Tax assets liabilities 2,775 1,821 14,986 13,655 The March 2016 Budget announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 17 per cent by 2020.
The reduction in the rate to 17 per cent effective April 2020 was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
This will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred taxation liability at 31 December 2017 has been calculated based on the rate at which the deferred tax is expected to unwind in the future using rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
The deferred taxation liability of 702,000 2016: 727,000 in relation to employee benefits is in respect of the net surplus for the defined benefit obligations of 4,127,000 2016: 4,276,000 net surplus Note 17 calculated at 17 per cent 2016: 17 per cent.
Deferred tax assets on capital losses and overseas trading losses have not been recognised due to uncertainty around the future use of the losses.
Movement in temporary differences Year ended 31 December 2017 Recognised Recognised On in other in statement acquisition of 1 January Recognised comprehensive of changes subsidiary 31 December 2017 in income income in equity undertaking 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 10,838 718 425 10,545 Intangible assets 265 25 1,111 1,351 Inventories 377 9 368 Employee benefits 727 81 56 702 Equity settled share-based payments 1,821 69 885 2,775 Other items 1,448 5 35 602 2,020 11,834 897 21 885 2,138 12,211 Year ended 31 December 2016 Recognised Recognised in other in statement 1 January Recognised comprehensive of changes 31 December 2016 in income income in equity 2016 000 000 000 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 11,334 496 10,838 Intangible assets 283 18 265 Inventories 427 50 377 Employee benefits 617 127 237 727 Equity settled share-based payments 1,316 383 122 1,821 Other items 964 77 561 1,448 12,309 1,151 798 122 11,834 Deferred taxation liabilities represent sums that might become payable as tax in future years as a result of transactions that have occurred in the current year.
The explanation as to why such liabilities may arise is included in the notes to the tax reconciliation Note 6.
The deferred tax balances on short-term timing differences are expected to reverse within 1 to 3 years.
Based on the current investment programme of the Group and assuming that current rates of capital allowances on fixed asset expenditure continue into the future, there is little prospect of any significant part of the deferred taxation liability of the Company becoming payable over the next 3 years.
It is not realistic to make any projection after a 3-year period.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19 Deferred taxation continued Movement in temporary differences continued The deferred tax liabilities disclosed in the year ended 31 December 2017 include the deferred tax relating to the Groups pension scheme assets.
20 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital Issued and paid up 2017 2016 000 000 At 1 January and at 31 December 49,845 49,845 Number of 25 pence Ordinary Shares 199,378,755 199,378,755 Consolidation reserve On 8 July 2004 Marshalls plc was introduced as the new holding company of the Group by way of a court-approved Scheme of Arrangement under Section 425 of the Companies Act 1985.
The restructuring was accounted for as a capital reorganisation and accounting principles were applied as ifthe Company had always been the holding company of the Group.
The difference between the aggregate nominal value of the new shares issued by the Company and the called-up share capital, capital redemption reserve and share premium account of Marshalls Group plc the previous holding company was transferred to a consolidation reserve.
Hedging reserve This represents the gains and losses arising on derivatives used for cash flow hedging, principally from the Groups interest rate swaps, energy price contracts and forward exchange contracts.
Dividends After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the Directors.
The dividends have not been provided and there were no income tax consequences.
2017 2016 000 000 6.80 pence final dividend 2016: 5.80 pence per Ordinary Share 13,436 11,460 4.00 pence supplementary dividend 2016: 3.00 pence per Ordinary Share 7,904 5,927 21,340 17,387 21 Non-controlling interests 2017 2016 000 000 At 1 January 1,465 1,139 Share of loss profit for the year 377 157 Foreign currency transaction differences 371 169 At 31 December 1,459 1,465 MARSHALLS PLC 108 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 Acquisition of subsidiary On 19 October 2017, Marshalls Mono Limited acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital of CPM Group Limited, a precast concrete manufacturer which specialises in underground water management solutions.
The acquisition is in line with the Groups 2020 Strategy.
CPM Group Limited operates within the UK and is registered in England and Wales.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below: Provisional fair values acquired 000 Land and buildings 8,437 Plant, machinery and vehicles 7,639 Identifiable intangible assets 7,233 Inventories 4,580 Trade and other receivables 12,334 Cash and cash equivalents 2,955 Trade and other payables 16,931 Provisions 11,840 Borrowings 3,407 Corporation tax 1,825 Deferred tax 2,138 Total identifiable assets 1,127 Goodwill 25,145 Initial cash consideration 26,272 Monies paid into escrow 12,000 Total cash payments in connection with the acquisition 38,272 Analysis of amounts paid in connection with the acquisition Total cash payments 38,272 Net borrowings acquired 2,955 Total cash outflow in connection with the acquisition 41,227 Initial cash consideration paid to the vendors was 26,272,000 and, in addition, a further 12,000,000 was paid into an escrow account in relation to certain ongoing legal and regulatory matters identified during the course of due diligence carried out prior to concluding the acquisition.
Provisions of 11,840,000 have been recorded at the date of acquisition, for the estimated liabilities arising from concluding these ongoing matters see Note18.
The Group has a right of reimbursement of amounts held in an escrow account to the extent that any liability crystallises in respect of these ongoing legal and regulatory matters to enable the Group to settle these liabilities, up to the full value of the 12,000,000 held in escrow and consequently areimbursement asset of 12,000,000 has been recognised within other debtors.
To the extent that any liabilities arising from these ongoing legal and regulatory matters are resolved at a lower amount than the escrow balances, the excess balance remaining in escrow is payable to the vendors as additional consideration.
Due to their contractual dates, the fair value of the receivables shown above approximate to the gross contractual amounts receivable.
Theamount of gross contractual receivables not expected to be recovered is immaterial.
The goodwill arising from the acquisition represents the opportunity to grow by utilising the capabilities and technical expertise of the acquired workforce and by developing synergistic opportunities.
The goodwill arising from the acquisition is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Transaction costs incurred on acquisition were 837,000, and these have been fully expensed in the period Note 3.
CPM Group Limited contributed revenue of 9,017,000 and profit of 749,000 to the Groups profit for the period between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date.
If the acquisition of CPM Group Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenue for the period would have been 485,532,000 and Group profit before tax would have been 56,255,000.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23 Analysis of net debt On acquisition of 1 January subsidiary Other 31 December 2017 Cash flow undertaking changes 2017 000 000 000 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 20,681 1,925 2,955 194 19,845 Debt due after 1 year 14,975 25,413 2,847 648 43,883 Finance leases 293 594 560 259 5,413 22,894 6,362 454 24,297 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2017 2016 000 000 Net increase decrease in cash equivalents 1,925 4,680 Cash inflow outflow from decrease in debt and lease financing 24,819 23,831 On acquisition of subsidiary undertaking 6,362 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations 454 2,276 Movement in net debt in the year 29,710 16,875 Net debt at 1 January 5,413 11,462 Net debt at 31 December 24,297 5,413 24 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities The table below details changes in the Groups liabilities arising from financing activities, including both cash and non-cash changes.
Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash flows were, or future cash flows will be, classified in the Groups Consolidated Cash Flow Statement as cash flows from financing activities.
Non-cash changes Financing Acquisition 1 January cash flows of subsidiary Other changes 31 December 2017 i Note 22 ii 2017 Bank loans Note 15 14,975 25,413 2,847 648 43,883 Finance lease liabilities Note 15 293 594 560 259 Interest rate swaps fair value hedging or economically hedging financing liabilities Note 16 657 385 175 447 Total liabilities from financing activities 14,611 25,204 3,407 473 43,695 i T he cash flows from bank loans, loans from related parties and other borrowings make up the net amount of proceeds from borrowings and repayments of borrowings in the cash flow statement.
Certain leased properties have been sublet by the Group.
Sublease payments of 306,020 2016: 200,020 are expected to be received during the following financial year.
An amount of 345,446 2016: 246,186 was recognised as income in the Consolidated Income Statement within net operating costs in respect of subleases.
26 Contingencies Royal Bank of Scotland plc has issued, on behalf of Marshalls plc, the following irrevocable letters of credit relating to the Groups cap on self insurance for employers liability and vehicle insurance: Beneficiary Amount Period Purpose M S Amlin Limited 675,000 23 Dec 2011 to 30 Oct 2018 Employers liability Aviva Insurance Limited 350,000 19 Mar 2014 to 30 Oct 2018 Vehicle insurance M S Amlin Limited 350,000 30 Oct 2016 to 30 Oct 2018 Vehicle insurance 27 Related parties Identity of related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors.
Transactions with key management personnel Other than the Directors, there are no senior managers in the Group who are relevant for establishing that Marshalls plc has the appropriate expertise and experience for the management of its business.
Directors of the Company and their immediate relatives control 0.1804 per cent 2016: 0.0881 per cent of the voting shares of the Company.
In addition to their salaries and pension allowances, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to Directors.
Further details in relation to Directors are disclosed in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 63.
28 Accounting estimates and judgements Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
The accounting policies are set out in Note 1 on pages 78 to 87.
As stated in the accounting policies, revenue is disclosed net of rebates.
Whilst the Directors do not regard the determination of accruals for rebates as a key area of estimation uncertainty, the estimation of appropriate accruals for rebates requires commercial assessment.
Note 11 contains details of the Groups inventory.
Whilst not considered by the Directors to be a key source of estimation uncertainty, the carrying value of the Groups finished goods inventory has been reviewed using commercial judgement with regard to the assessment of the appropriate level of provisioning against inventory obsolescence and for net realisable value.
The Directors consider the following to be the only key source of estimation uncertainty.
Note 17 contains information about the principal actuarial assumptions used in the determination of defined benefit pension obligations.
These key assumptions include discount rates, the expected return on net assets, inflation rates and mortality rates and have been determined following advice received from an independent qualified actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is disclosed in Note 17 on page 105.
The critical accounting judgements applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements are: Note 2 contains information about the assumptions and judgements made relating to the identification of operating segments for the Group as defined in IFRS 8 Operating Segments: and Note 22 contains information relating to the acquisition of CPM Group Limited.
Judgement was applied in determining the fair value adjustments.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 111
