Glossary and appendices Term Definition and explanation Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios.
It is calculated using ABE historical data, actuarial methods and judgement.
A best estimate of reserves will therefore normally include no margin for optimism or, conversely, caution.
Adjusted diluted earnings Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the adjusted profit after tax of per share Ongoing operations by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the period adjusted for dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
See Appendix A APM from page 177.
Adjusted profit after tax Profit after tax is adjusted to exclude the Run-off segment and restructuring costs, and is stated after charging tax using the UK standard tax rate of 19.25%: 2016: 20.00%.
Annual Incentive Plan This incentivises the performance of executives and employees over a one-year operating cycle.
AIP It focuses on the short to medium-term elements of the Groups strategic aims.
Available-for-sale Financial assets that are classified as available-for-sale.
Please refer to the accounting policy note 1.12 on page 120.
AFS investment Average written premium Average written premium is the total written premium at inception divided by the number of policies.
Buy-As-You-Earn Plan The HM Revenue & Customs approved Buy-As-You-Earn Share Incentive Plan gives all employees the opportunity to become shareholders in the Company.
Capital The funds invested in the Group, including funds invested by shareholders and retained profits.
Claims frequency The number of claims divided by the number of policies per year.
Claims handling provision Funds the Group sets aside to meet the estimated cost of settling claims and related expenses that provision for losses and the Group considers it will ultimately need to pay.
loss-adjustment expense Clawback The ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid amounts for equity settled share-based payments.
Combined operating The sum of the loss, commission and expense ratios.
The ratio measures the amount of claims costs, ratio COR commission and expenses, compared to net earned premium generated.
A ratio of less than 100% indicates profitable underwriting.
Normalised COR adjusts loss and commission ratios for a normal level of major weather events in the period.
Commission expenses Payments to brokers, partners and PCWs for generating business.
Commission ratio The ratio of commission expense divided by net earned premium.
Current-year attritional The loss ratio for the current accident year, excluding the movement of claims reserves relating loss ratio to previous accident years, and claims relating to major weather events in the Home segment.
Deferred Annual For Executive Directors, at least 40% of the AIP award is deferred into shares typically vesting three years after grant.
The remainder of the award is paid in cash following year-end.
Incentive Plan DAIP Direct own brands Direct own brands include Home and Motor under the Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege brands, Rescue under the Green Flag brand and Commercial under the Direct Line for Business brand.
Earnings per share The amount of the Groups profit allocated to each Ordinary Share of the Company.
Employee Representative A forum that represents all employees, including when there is a legal requirement to consult Body employees.
Expense ratio The ratio of operating expenses divided by net earned premium.
Finance costs The cost of servicing the Groups external borrowings.
Financial Conduct The independent body that regulates firms and financial advisers.
It puts the customers interests Authority FCA and market integrity at the core of financial service providers activities.
Financial Reporting The UKs independent regulator responsible for promoting high quality corporate governance Council and reporting to foster investment.
Gross written premium The total premiums from contracts that began during the period.
International Accounting A not-for-profit public interest organisation that is overseen by a monitoring board of public authorities.
Standards Board IASB It develops IFRS: standards that aim to make worldwide markets transparent, accountable and efficient.
Incurred but not reported Funds set aside to meet the cost of claims for accidents that have occurred, but have not yet been IBNR reported to the Group.
This includes an element of uplift on the value of claims reported.
Where the Group has determined that the value currently held in reserves is not sufficient to meet the estimated ultimate costs if the claim is referred to as incurred but not enough reported IBNER.
In-force policies The number of policies on a given date that are active and against which the Group will pay, following a valid insurance claim.
174 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Term Definition and explanation Insurance liabilities This comprises insurance claims reserves and claims handling provision, which the Group maintains to meet current and future claims.
Investment income yield The income earned from the investment portfolio, recognised through the income statement during the period divided by the average assets under management AUM.
This excludes unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments, and fair value adjustments.
The average AUM derives from the periods opening and closing balances for the total Group.
Investment return The return earned from the investment portfolio, including unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments, and fair value adjustments.
Investment return yield The return earned from the investment portfolio, recognised through the income statement during the period divided by the average AUM.
This includes unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments, and fair value adjustments.
The average AUM derives from the periods opening and closing balances.
Leverage Tier 1 notes and financial debt subordinated guaranteed dated notes as a percentage of total capital employed.
Loss ratio Net insurance claims divided by net earned premium.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards made as nil-cost options or conditional share awards, which vest to the extent that LTIP performance conditions are satisfied after a period of at least three years.
Malus An arrangement that permits unvested remuneration awards to be forfeited, when the Company considers it appropriate.
Managements best These reserves are based on Managements best estimate, which includes a prudence margin estimate MBE that exceeds the internal ABE.
Net asset value The net asset value of the Group is calculated by subtracting total liabilities from total assets.
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts.
It includes claims payments and movements in claims reserves.
Net earned premium The element of gross earned premium less reinsurance premium ceded for the period where insurance cover has already been provided.
Net investment income The net investment income yield is calculated in the same way as investment income yield but includes yield the cost of hedging.
See Appendix A - APM from page 177.
Ogden discount rate The discount rate set by the Lord Chancellor and used by courts to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases.
Ongoing operations Ongoing operations comprise Direct Line Groups Ongoing divisions: Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines, and Commercial.
It excludes run-off and restructuring costs.
Operating profit The pre-tax profit that the Groups activities generate, including insurance and investment activity, but excluding finance costs.
Own Risk and Solvency A Solvency II requirement.
It documents the Groups insurance underwriting entities risks and Assessment ORSA associated capital requirements, both now and projected over the business planning period.
It is forward looking, reflecting business strategy and risk appetite.
Periodic payment These are claims payments as awarded under the Courts Act 2003.
PPOs are used to settle order PPO large personal injury claims.
They generally provide a lump-sum award plus inflation-linked annual payments to claimants who require long-term care.
Prudential Regulation The PRA is a part of the Bank of England.
It is responsible for regulating and supervising insurers Authority PRA and financial institutions in the UK.
Reinsurance Contractual arrangements where the Group transfers part or all of the accepted insurance risk to another insurer.
Reserves Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding insurance claims and IBNR.
Restructuring costs Restructuring costs are costs incurred in respect of the business activities where the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure its activities.
Return on equity Return on equity is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the owners of the Company by average Shareholders equity for the period.
Return on Tangible Return on Tangible Equity for 2017 is adjusted profit after tax from Ongoing operations excluding Equity RoTE one-off costs in relation to the buy-back of subordinated liabilities, divided by the Groups average shareholders equity, less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Profit after tax is adjusted to exclude the Run-off segment and restructuring costs.
It is stated after charging tax using the UK standard tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20.0%.
RoTE for comparative periods is adjusted profit after tax from Ongoing operations, divided by the Groups average shareholders equity, less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Profit after tax is adjusted to exclude run-off and restructuring costs and other oneoff costs.
COM 175 Glossary and appendices continued Term Definition and explanation Run-off Where the Group no longer underwrites new business, but continues to meet its claims liabilities under existing contracts.
Solvency II The capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry, which became effective on 1 January 2016.
It establishes revised capital requirements and risk management standards.
It comprises three pillars: Pillar I, which sets out capital requirements for an insurer: Pillar II, which focuses on systems of governance: and Pillar III, which deals with disclosure requirements.
Solvency capital ratio The ratio of Solvency II own funds to the solvency capital requirement.
Total costs Total costs comprise operating expenses and claims handling expenses for Ongoing operations.
Total Shareholder Return Compares share price movement with reinvested dividends as a percentage of the share price TSR at the beginning of the period.
Underwriting result The profit or loss from operational activities, excluding investment return and other operating income.
profit loss It is calculated as net earned premium less net insurance claims and total expenses.
176 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendix A Alternative performance measures The Group has identified Alternative Performance Measures APMs in accordance with the European Securities and Markets Authoritys published Guidelines.
The Group uses APMs to improve comparability of information between reporting periods and reporting segments, by adjusting for either uncontrollable or one-off costs which impact on IFRS measures, to aid the user of the Annual Report in understanding the activity taking place across the Group.
These APMs are contained within the main narrative sections of this document, outside of the financial statements and notes, and may not necessarily have standardised meanings for ease of comparability across peer organisations.
Further information is presented below, defined in the glossary on pages from 174 to 176 and reconciled to the most directly reconcilable line items in the financial statements and notes.
Note 4 on page 139 of the consolidated financial statements presents a reconciliation of the Groups business activities on a segmental basis to the consolidated income statement including Ongoing operations of the Group.
All note references in the table below are to the notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 112 to 171.
Group APM Closest Definition and or reconciliation Rationale for APM equivalent IFRS measure Adjusted diluted Diluted Adjusted diluted earnings per share is defined in the This is a representation of the underlying earnings earnings per earnings glossary on page 174 and is reconciled on page 178. over the number of shares in issue adjusted for share per share potential dilutions from the exercise of options and contingently issuable shares.
Current-year Loss ratio Current-year attritional loss ratio is defined in the glossary Express claims performance in the current attritional loss on page 174 and is reconciled to loss ratio discussed accident year in relation to net earned premium.
COR Operating COR is defined in the glossary on page 174.
The This is a measure of underwriting profitability profit constituent parts are underwriting profit defined in the whereby a ratio of less than 100% represents glossary on page 176 and net earned premium note 5. an underwriting profit and a ratio of more than 100% represents an underwriting loss and excludes non-insurance income.
Investment Investment Investment income yield is defined in the glossary on page Expresses a relationship between the investment income yield income 175 and is reconciled on page 179. income and the associated opening and closing assets adjusted for portfolio hedging instruments.
Investment Investment Investment return yield is defined in the glossary on page Expresses a relationship between the investment return yield return 175 and is reconciled on page 179. return and the associated opening and closing assets net of any associated liabilities.
Loss ratio Net Loss ratio is defined in the glossary on page 175 and is Expenses claims performance in relation to net insurance reconciled in note 4. earned premium.
claims Net investment Investment Net investment income yield is defined in the glossary on Expresses a relationship between the investment income yield income page 175 and is reconciled on page 179. income and the associated opening and closing assets adjusted for portfolio hedging instruments.
Operating Operating Operating profit from Ongoing operations is defined as This measure shows the underlying performance profit from profit operating profit see glossary on page 175 less operating before tax and finance costs of the business Ongoing profit from Run-off segment plus restructuring costs note 4 activities without the impact of business that is operations and is reconciled on page 178. in Run-off and restructuring costs.
Profit after tax Profit after Operating profit from Ongoing operations as above less This measure shows the underlying performance from Ongoing tax finance costs and tax at standard rate and is reconciled after tax and finance costs of the business operations on page 178. activities without the impact of business that is in Run-off and restructuring costs.
RoTE Return on RoTE is defined in the glossary on page 175 and is This shows underlying performance against Equity reconciled on page 178. a measure of equity that is more able to be compared with other companies.
Tangible equity Equity Tangible equity is defined as equity less intangible assets This shows the equity excluding intangible within the balance sheet and is reconciled on page 178. assets for comparability with companies who have not acquired businesses or capitalised intangible assets.
Tangible net Net assets Tangible net asset per share is defined as tangible equity This shows the equity excluding intangible assets asset per share per share as above expressed as a value per share and is reconciled per share for comparability with companies in note 16 on page 147. who have not acquired businesses or capitalised intangible assets.
Total costs from Operating Total costs from Ongoing operations is defined as operating This represents the total value of operating Ongoing expenses expenses adjusted to remove restructuring costs and expenses including those allocated to the operations operating expenses charged to the Run-off segment insurance claims line as claims handling reconciled in note 10 plus claims handling expenses expenses excluding business in Run-off incurred in net insurance claims on Ongoing operations and restructuring costs.
This is reconciled on page 37.
COM 177 Glossary and appendices continued Appendix A Alternative performance measures continued Additionally, the current-year attritional loss ratio within the analysis by division section and total costs have also been identified as alternative performance measures, similarly reconciled to the financial statements and notes, on page 36, and defined in the glossary.
1 Return on tangible equity 2017 2016 2 Note m m Operating profit 4 642.8 390.2 Add back: restructuring costs 4 11.9 39.9 Exclude: operating profit from Run-off 4 43.8 26.6 Operating profit from Ongoing operations 4 610.9 403.5 Finance costs 11 103.8 37.2 Finance costs adjustment for one-off subordinated debt buy back 66.1 Adjusted profit before tax from Ongoing operations 573.2 366.3 Tax charge using the UK standard tax rate of 19.25% and 20.0% respectively 110.3 73.3 Adjusted profit after tax from Ongoing operations 462.9 293.0 Opening shareholders equity 2,521.5 2,630.0 Opening goodwill and other intangible assets 508.9 524.8 Opening shareholders tangible equity 2,012.6 2,105.2 Closing shareholders equity 2,715.1 2,521.5 Closing goodwill and other intangible assets 471.1 508.9 Closing shareholders tangible equity 2,244.0 2,012.6 3 Average shareholders tangible equity 2,128.3 2,058.9 Return on tangible equity 21.7% 14.2% 1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 2017 2016 2 Note m m Adjusted profit after tax from Ongoing operations 462.9 293.0 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share millions 15 1,379.0 1,381.8 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence 33.6 21.2 Notes: 1.
See glossary on pages 174 and 175 for definitions 2.
See notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.
Mean average of opening and closing balances 178 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Investment income and return yields 2017 2016 2 Notes m m Investment income 6 167.1 167.9 3 Hedging to a sterling floating rate basis 6 27.0 17.1 Net investment income 140.1 150.8 Net realised and unrealised gains excluding hedging 6 35.3 20.7 Investment return 175.4 171.5 Opening investment property 329.0 347.4 Opening financial investments 5,147.0 5,614.6 Opening cash and cash equivalents 1,166.1 963.7 Opening borrowings 55.3 61.3 4 Opening derivatives liability 5.8 45.7 Opening investment holdings 6,581.0 6,818.7 Closing investment property 19 309.3 329.0 Closing financial investments 26 5,040.4 5,147.0 Closing cash and cash equivalents 27 1,358.6 1,166.1 Closing borrowings 27 54.1 55.3 4 Closing derivatives asset liability 55.1 5.8 Closing investment holdings 6,709.3 6,581.0 Average investment holdings 6,645.2 6,699.9 Investment income yield 2.5% 2.5% Net investment income yield 2.1% 2.2% Investment return yield 2.6% 2.6% Notes: 1.
See glossary on page 175 for definitions 2.
Includes net realised and unrealised gains losses of derivatives in relation to AUM 4.
