Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Additional Information 199 Shareholder Information Ordinary shares e-Communication The Companys ordinary shares, each of nominal value 5p, are traded National Express encourages shareholders to receive on the main market for listed securities on the London Stock communications from the Company electronically as this will enable Exchange LON:NEX.
you to receive them more quickly and securely.
It also allows the Company to communicate in a more environmentally friendly and cost-effective manner.
To register for this service, you should go to Company website: www.
com The Company website contains information about the Company, Payment of dividends to UK resident including results announcements and presentations, annual reports, shareholders AGM notices and other similar corporate communication and shareholder materials which are available to view and download.
Shareholders whose dividends are currently sent to their registered Information can also be found there about the latest National Express address may wish to consider having their dividends paid directly into share price and dividends, news about the Group and its operations, their personal bank or building society account.
This has a number of and details and links to further information.
advantages, including the crediting of cleared funds on the actual dividend payment date.
If you would like your future dividends paid in this way, you should contact the Registrar or complete a mandate Registrar: Equiniti instruction available at www.
co. uk and return it to the For assistance and enquiries relating to the administration of Registrar.
Under this arrangement, dividend confirmations are still shareholdings in National Express Group PLC, such as lost share sent to your registered address.
certificates, dividend payments or a change of address, please contact the Companys Registrar: Payment of dividends to non-UK resident Equiniti Limited shareholders Aspect House Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, shareholders Spencer Road can request that their dividends be paid directly to a personal bank Lancing account overseas.
This is a service which the Registrar can arrange in West Sussex over 30 different countries worldwide, and in local currencies, and it BN99 6DA normally costs less than paying in a sterling cheque.
For more information, you should contact the Registrar on 44 0 121 415 7049 Telephone from UK: 0371 384 2152 or download an application form online at www.
Telephone from overseas: 44 0 121 415 7047 Alternatively, you can contact the Registrar at the address given Textel for the hard of hearing : 0371 384 2255 above.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Annual Dividend Confirmation The Company issues Annual Dividend Confirmations ADC to If you are registered for online shareholder communications you can private shareholders.
An ADC in respect of dividends paid by the contact the Registrar and access details of your shareholdings Company during the tax year 2017 18 has been issued at the same electronically via www.
200 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Shareholder Information continued Share dealing service Unsolicited mail Equiniti provides both existing and prospective UK shareholders with The Company is legally obliged to make its share register available on an easy to access and simple-to-use share dealing facility for buying request, subject to a proper purpose test, to other organisations and and selling shares in National Express Group PLC by telephone, this may result in shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
To limit the online or post.
The telephone and online dealing service allows receipt of such unsolicited mail, contact: shareholders to trade real-time at a known price that will be given The Mailing Preference Service to them at the time they give their instruction.
FREEPOST 29 LON20771 For telephone dealing, call 0345 603 7037 between 8.00am and London 4.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England W1E 0ZT and Wales.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate Telephone: 0207 291 3310 and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the UK will be charged Email: mps@dma.
at the applicable international rate.
For online dealing, log on to Website: www.
uk for online registration www.
For postal dealing, call 0371 384 22481 for full details and a dealing instruction form.
Existing shareholders will need to provide the account shareholder reference number shown on Share fraud warning!
Other brokers, banks and building societies Share fraud includes scams where investors receive unsolicited calls also offer similar share dealing facilities or correspondence concerning investment matters from organisations or persons claiming or implying that they have some connection with ShareGift the Company.
These are typically from purported brokers who offer to buy shares at a price often far in excess of their market value.
ShareGift is an independent charity share donation scheme These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any offers of unsolicited number 1052686.
Those shareholders who hold only a small number advice, discounted shares, premium prices for shares they own or of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, can free reports into the Company.
If you receive any such unsolicited donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the calls, correspondence or investment advice: proceeds to a wide range of charities.
For further information, contact: ensure you get the correct name of the person and firm check that the firm is on the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Sharegift Register to ensure they are authorised at www.
uk PO Box 72253 use the details on the FCA Register to contact the firm London call the FCA Consumer Helpline 0800 111 6768 if there are no SW1P 9LQ contact details in the Register or you are told they are out of date Telephone: 020 7930 3737 if you feel uncomfortable with the call or the calls persist, simply Email: help@sharegift.
org if you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact ActionFraud on 0300 123 2040.
Unclaimed Assets Register REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register UAR programme which provides a search facility for shareholdings and other financial assets that may have been forgotten.
For further information, contact: Telephone: 0333 000 0182 Email: uarenquiries@uk.
