6 Our business model and strategy Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Our business model What we do Revenue breakdown by business line National Express operates safe, reliable, convenient and good value public transportation services.
We do this in both Student transportation North America school bus regulated and unregulated markets, and Revenue provide services to our customers who 770m are private individuals, companies, school 2016: 710m boards or public authorities.
We own and lease buses, coaches and trains which we use Urban Bus UK bus, North America transit, ALSA urban bus to deliver local, regional, national and international transportation services.
In our UK coach operations, we also outsource certain Revenue services to select partner operators.
Irrespective of the operator, all vehicles are driven and maintained to our global standards, 670m either on a network of services scheduled by National Express, or 2016: 600m delivered point to point on private hire.
In Spain, Morocco, North America and Germany, services are run typically under an exclusive concession or franchise of fixed duration granted by a competent body eg government, school board and after a competitive bid process.
In the UK, coach services are unregulated while for UK Regional long haul coach bus services, contracting differs by geography.
ALSA Regional and long haul, UK coach Revenue 620m 2016: 580m 1.1 billion Number of kilometres travelled Charter and other North America, ALSA and UK Revenue 882 million 180m Number of passenger 2016: 145m journeys 21,185 Rail German Rail Number of school bus Revenue routes operated in North America 80m 2016: 60m 29,000 Note: Data above rounded to nearest 5m Number of vehicles operated Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Our business model and strategy 7 Where we operate Revenue m National Express operates transportation services in eight countries UK, USA, Canada, Spain, Morocco, Switzerland, USA 934.1 Germany and Bahrain with some Spain 610.5 UK 561.5 international coach services to other Canada 83.1 European countries.
Germany 79.0 Morocco 45.7 We hold the largest market share for long haul coach transport Switzerland 7.3 in both Spain and the UK, and are the second largest school bus Total 2,321.2 provider in North America.
We also operate urban bus and transit operations in the USA, Canada, Morocco, Spain and the UK.
In 2017, we disposed of our final UK rail franchise, c2c, to Trenitalia.
Our sole rail operations are now in Germany.
Our primary markets 1 USA 3 4 2 5 Canada 2 6 3 1 UK 7 8 4 Germany 5 Switzerland 6 Spain 7 Morocco 8 Bahrain Markets colour-coded to business line as set out on page 6 We employ 47,000 people worldwide.
8 Our business model and strategy Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Our business model How we create value Sources of revenue m Converting it to profit National Express maintains industry-leading margins through a relentless focus on operational excellence in all we do.
The direct, variable costs of providing transport services across the Group depend on a number of factors, but sophisticated network Contract revenue 1,134 optimisation is a key factor.
Through continuously reviewing and Ticket sales 891 improving network designs and routing, we can optimise peak Charter and private hire 121 vehicle requirements and increase loading factors, reducing the Concessions and subsidies 112 cost of delivering a high quality service to our customers.
Our Other 63 diversity and scale is an important factor in managing indirect costs, enabling us to optimise cost and quality across the Total 2,321.2 Groups supply base.
Delivering cash flow National Express has a track record of generating significant cash flow from its operations.
The Group has delivered over 750 million of free cash flow over the last five years and is Growing revenue extremely disciplined in its management of working capital and National Express generates revenue principally from two sources.
the conversion of operating profit into free cash.
Maintenance First, multi-year contracts with school boards or local authorities capital expenditure is maintained at a level of around 1.1 to make up 49% of revenue, the majority of which are in North 1.2 times depreciation, efficiently retaining an appropriately America.
Revenue is generated either on a per mile kilometre basis, aged fleet to meet customer requirements.
Second, a further 38% of revenue is earned through individual ticket sales to the public, with National Express Funding returns and reinvestment marketing the product and taking revenue risk.
This revenue is derived from bus or coach journeys in the UK, Spain and Morocco, By generating cash returns and by managing our net debt and rail journeys in Germany.
Concession revenue from local to between 2.0 and 2.5x EBITDA, we ensure debt levels and authorities in the UK, Spain and Germany delivers 5% of Group interest costs can be supported by the profits generated by the revenue with charter private hire contributing a further 5%.
This allows National Express to do two things.
remaining 3% is from other revenue streams such as on board First, we can reinvest cash back into the operations to grow entertainment, SMS alerts, booking fees and advertising.
We have invested 365m both organically and inorganically since 2013.
This has strengthened our market leading There are many factors contributing to the Groups strong organic positions in coach in the UK and in Spain: built-out key geographic revenue growth.
In recent years, our increasingly sophisticated positions, such as in New York state in school bus: and enabled use of Revenue Management Systems RMS has been a notable us to expand into promising adjacent markets such as paratransit factor.
RMS enables us to segment our offer through a better in Chicago or urban bus in Morocco.
Second, we can deliver understanding of customer needs and purchasing behaviour to consistent, competitive returns to shareholders.
Over the last five drive revenue through differential pricing depending on time of years the Company has returned 280 million through dividends, journey, ticket type, buying channel etc.
growing dividend per share by 35%.
365m The Group has delivered over 750 million We have invested 365m both organically and in free cash flow since 2013. inorganically over the last five years 327m Including this years proposed final dividend, over the last five years the Company has returned 327m through dividends Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Our business model and strategy 9 How we maintain competitive advantage National Express is the best value operator in price sensitive transportation markets, combining the benefits of scale and diversity with deep understanding of the local markets in which we operate.
This international-local balance drives a number of competitive advantages: We engage our customers through clear marketing and branding We invest in our consumer brands to ensure the value in our products is understood by our customers.
The National Express and ALSA brands are household names and stand for safety, consistency, reliability and affordability.
We promote these values in our brands to help drive purchasing decisions.
We prioritise safe operations The Group operates consistent, world-class safety policies in all markets, supported by leading edge technology.
Our focus on We enforce consistent global Driving Out Harm supports our primary goal to get customers to their destination safely.
policies and processes Our global Master Driver and Master Technician programmes We operate at scale drive a consistently high standard of capability across our markets.
We seek leadership positions in the markets in which we operate.
Consistency and standardisation in turn allow costs to be optimised In the UK and Spain, our long haul coach operations are market to enable us to offer best value to our customers.
In urban bus and transit, we are focusing on growing urban markets around the world for example in 2017 we grew in We deploy new technologies London, New York, Chicago, Madrid and Geneva.
rapidly across the Group The Group consistently applies technology to improve our customer offering eg deploying free wifi on our premium bus services in the West Midlands, development of VUER in our UK coach business, development of mobile apps, web interfaces and customer portals : to grow the business eg RMS in our coach businesses in the UK and Spain, and on-demand scheduling through our Ecolane tool in North America : and to drive operational excellence eg the global roll-out of Lytx DriveCam in support of our global safety policies.
We operate a balanced and resilient portfolio Because of the contract nature of a material portion of our business, less than 50% of our revenues vary based on passenger demand, and we are therefore less exposed to changes in travel patterns caused by economic cycles.
In addition, the nature of some of our main contracts eg in school bus transportation means that we are less of a target for technological disruption from unregulated technology-based companies who target market share growth at a loss than others who participate in only B2C markets.
Our diversification means that no one contract accounts for more than 4% of revenue.
All of this helps us to generate cash consistently, allowing us to invest prudently over the medium to long term, and to minimise our financial risk.
