166 Additional shareholder information Registrar Dividends The Companys Registrar is Equiniti Limited Equiniti.
All enquiries 2017 final dividend relating to the administration of shareholdings, dividends, change The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 2.74p per share, of address and lost share certificates should be directed to Equiniti.
for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2017.
Payment of this dividend is Information and advice can be found on their website.
subject to approval at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
When taken with the interim dividend of 1.14p per share paid on 13 September 2017 Contacting Equiniti: this gives a total dividend of 3.88p per share 2016: 3.37p.
co. uk Key dates relating to this dividend are given below.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday Ex-dividend date 12 Apr 2018 excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Record date 13 Apr 2018 Equ initi, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 Last day for DRIP elections 24 Apr 2018 6DA, UK.
Annual General Meeting 9 May 2018 Payment date 16 May 2018 Shareview Portfolio service You can manage your shareholding online via Equinitis Shareview For further dividend information please see the Financial Review on Portfolio at shareview.
This allows shareholders to access a page 107 or go to rentokil-initial.
range of information about their shareholdings on registers maintained Dividend payments by Equiniti and includes shareholding details such as name and address, indicative share prices, recent balance changes and dividend Rentokil Initial dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building information.
society accounts instead of being sent to you by cheque.
More information about the benefits of having dividends paid directly into your Share dealing services bank or building society account, and the mandate form to set this up, Equiniti offers shareholders a dealing service which allows you to buy or can be found at shareview.
sell Rentokil Initial plc shares.
Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP shareview.
co. uk The Company has a DRIP provided by Equiniti Financial Services Limited 0371 384 2233 44 0 121 415 7065 if calling from outside the UK Equiniti FS, which is a convenient, easy and cost effective way to build Calls are charged at standard national and international rates.
a shareholding by using cash dividends to buy additional shares.
Rather Please note that both the internet share dealing and telephone share than receiving a dividend cheque or having a bank account credited dealing services are subject to commission charges.
Full details can with a cash dividend, Equiniti FS will use the dividends payable to DRIP befound on shareview.
participants to purchase shares on your behalf in the market.
co. uk for further information.
ShareGift Dividend history Shareholders with small holdings in shares, whose value makes themuneconomical to sell, may wish to donate them to ShareGift Details of the Companys dividend history can be found on our website registered charity no.
For further information, contact: American depository receipts ADR sharegift.
org The Company has an ADR programme that trades on the over-thehelp@sharegift.
org counter market in the United States.
This is a sponsored Level 1 ADR 44 0 20 7930 3737 programme for which the Bank of New York Mellon acts as depositary.
ShareGift, PO Box 72253, London, SW1P 9LQ Each ADR is equivalent to five Rentokil Initial plc ordinary shares.
Forenquiries relating to ADRs, please contact: Share price information and history mybnymdr.
com The current price of the Companys shares can be found at shrrelations@.
Freephone from the US: 1 888 269 2377 International calls: 1 201 680 6825 Mid-market price 31 March 1982 7.5375p BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, P. O.
Box 30170, College Station, Adjusted for the 1983 bonus issue and the 1990, 1992 and 1997 share splits TX 77842-3170, USA.
Mid-market price 31 December 2017 318.0p Exchange: OTC over the counter 2017 high low 338.8p 226.9p Symbol: RTOKY CUSIP: 760125104 Ratio ADR: Ord 1:5 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 167 Additional shareholder information Indirect owners of shares with information rights Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than to Equiniti.
How to avoid share fraud Reject cold calls: If youve been cold called with an offer to buy or sell shares, chances are its a high risk investment or a scam.
You should treat the call with extreme caution.
The safest thing to do is to hang up.
Check the firm on the Financial Conduct Authority register at fca.
The Financial Services Register is a public record of all the firms and individuals in the financial services industry that are regulated by the FCA.
Get impartial advice: Think about getting impartial financial advice before you hand over any money.
Seek advice from someone unconnected to the firm that has approached you.
If you suspect that you have been approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at fca.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have lost money to investment fraud, you should report it to Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or online at actionfraud.
ALWAYS REMEMBER: If it seems too good to be true, it probably is!
Unsolicited mail The Company is legally obliged to make its register of members available to the public, subject to a proper purpose test.
As a consequence of this, some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail should contact the Mailing Preference Service MPS at: mpsonline.
uk 02 07 291 3310 M PS FREEPOST LON20771, London, W1E 0ZT Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at The Hilton, London Gatwick Airport Ascot Suite, South Terminal, Gatwick Airport, Crawley, West Sussex RH6 0LL on Wednesday 9 May 2018 at 12 noon.
The Notice of Meeting is available on the Companys website.
Published information If you would like to receive a hard copy of this Annual Report please contact the Company Secretariat at the Companys registered office below.
A PDF copy of this report can alsobe downloaded from our website.
Registered office and headquarters Rentokil Initial plc Registered in England and Wales: Company Number: 5393279 Registered Office: Riverbank, Meadows Business Park, Blackwater, Camberley, Surrey GU17 9AB rentokil-initial.
com 44 0 1276 607444 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 168 Glossary AER Actual exchange rate AGM Annual General Meeting APBITA Adjusted profit before interest, tax and amortisation APM Alternative Performance Measure Benelux Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg Board The Board of Directors of Rentokil Initial plc B2B Business to business CAGR Compound annual growth rate CEE Central and Eastern Europe CER Constant exchange rate CGU Cash-generating unit Company Rentokil Initial plc CVC Customer Voice Counts CWS-boco CWS-boco International GmbH DEFRA Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Director A Director of Rentokil Initial plc EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation ELT Executive Leadership Team EMTN Euro Medium-Term Note ETR Effective tax rate EPS Earnings per share FIFO First-in, first-out FRC Financial Reporting Council FRS Financial Reporting Standards GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GDPR General Data Protection Regulation Group Rentokil Initial plc and its subsidiaries H&S Health and safety Haniel Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH IAS International Accounting Standards IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association IRR Internal rate of return ISAs International Standards of Auditing JV Joint venture KPI Key performance indicator LTA Lost time accident LTIP Long-term incentive plans M&A Mergers and acquisitions MENAT Middle East, North Africa and Turkey NED Non-Executive Director NPS Net Promoter Score Parent Company Rentokil Initial plc PBTA Profit before tax and amortisation PCI PCI Pest Control Private Limited PSP Rentokil Initial plc Performance Share Plan Reported As stated in the 2016 Annual Report RCF Revolving credit facility RFID Radio frequency identification R&D Research and development RIPS Rentokil Initial 2015 Pension Scheme RLD Rgie Linge Dveloppement S. A. S. S&P Standard & Poors SHE Safety, Health and Environment SID Senior Independent Director SLF Senior Leadership Forum TSR Total shareholder return USP Unique selling point UK & RoW United Kingdom and Rest of World WDL Working days lost Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 About us Rentokil Initial is a global leader in the provision of route-based services which protect people and enhance lives.
Our services include pest control, hygiene and workwear, as well as a range ofother smaller specialist services including plants, medical services, property care and specialist hygiene.
We protect people from the dangers of pest-borne disease and therisks of poor hygiene.
We enhance lives with services that protect the health and wellbeing of people, and the reputation ofourcustomers brands.
Rentokil is the worlds leading commercial pest control company andour engine for growth.
Initial Hygiene is the global leader in hygiene services.
We have over 1,800 local service teams across the world covering 91% of global GDP in over 90 of the worlds 100 largest cities across North America, Europe, UK & Rest of World, Asia and the Pacific.
Operating in over 70 countries, approximately 90% of our revenues are derived outside of the UK.
We have over a million customers to service from the largest multination pharmaceutical, industrial and food production companies to local shops, restaurants and homes.
With high levels of customer service and retention rates we continue to build our portfolio.
Find out more at rentokil-initial.
com Cautionary statement This report contains statements that are, or may be, forward-looking regarding the Groups financial position and results, business strategy, plans and objectives.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances and there are accordingly a number of factors which might cause actual results and performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied bysuch statements.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and no representation or warranty, whether expressed orimplied, is given in relation to them, including as to their completeness or accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
Other than in accordance with the Companys legal or regulatory obligations including under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, theCompany does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Information contained in this 2017 Annual Report relating to the Company or its share price, orthe yield on its shares, should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance.
Nothing in this 2017 Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
This Report is printed on Printed at Principal Colour Ltd, Design LumiSilk paper and has been ISO14001 and FSC certified.
co. uk independently certified on behalf Print of the Forest Stewardship Council Principal Colour Ltd FSC.
The inks used are all vegetable based.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Protecting People.
