Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key dates for 2018 Annual General Meeting 8 May 2018 Financial half year end 30 June 2018 Announcement of half year results 9 August 2018 Website Visit our investor relations website www.
com for full up-to-date investor relations information, including the latest share price, recent Annual and Half Year Reports, results presentations and financial news.
Shareholder enquiries For shareholder enquiries please contact our Registrars, Equiniti see below.
For general enquiries please call our Shareholder Services helpline on: 0371 384 2018 overseas holders need to call 44 0 121 415 7047.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
For further administrative queries in respect of your shareholding, please access our Registrars website at www.
co. uk Electronic communications If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including your Annual and half-yearly reports and notices of meetings, please visit our Registrars website, www.
co. uk and follow the link to Register for e-communications under the Shareholder Services section.
Half Year Report Like many other listed public companies, we no longer circulate printed Half Year Reports to shareholders.
Rather, Half Year results statements are published on the Companys website.
We believe that this is of benefit to those shareholders who do not wish to be burdened with such paper documents, and to the Company, as it is consistent with our target of saving printing and distribution costs.
Professional advisers and service providers Solicitors CMS Cameron McKenna LLP Cannon Place 78 Cannon Street London EC4N 6AF Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Auditor  LLP 1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH Joint Stockbrokers UBS Investment Bank 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP Numis Securities Ltd The London Stock Exchange Building 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LT Principal Bankers Barclays Bank PLC 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP Savills plc 151 Report and Accounts 2017 Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements Certain statements included in this Annual Report are forwardlooking and are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied because they relate to future events.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the Companys expectations.
Forwardlooking statements can be identified by the use of relevant terminology including the words: believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, forecasts, plans, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our Officers, Directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: Global economic business conditions: Monetary and interest rate policies: Foreign currency exchange rates: Equity and property prices: The impact of competition, inflation: Changes to regulations, taxes: Changes to consumer saving and spending habits: and Our success in managing the above factors.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only at their respective dates.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Savills plc 152 Report and Accounts 2017 2017 Report and Accounts Savills plc Savills plc 33 Margaret Street London W1G 0JD T: 44 0 20 7499 8644 www.
com Registered in England No.
