Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure In compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL a Fidelity group company as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
FISL has delegated the portfolio management and company secretarial function to FIL Investments International another Fidelity group company.
Details of the Management Agreement can be found in the Directors Report on page 22.
The table below discloses information required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013.
Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure Investment The AIFM provides portfolio management of assets and investment advice Details of the Companys investment objective, management in relation to the assets of the Company.
It has delegated this function to FIL strategy and investment policy, including limits, Investments International.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy, investment policy and investment guidelines and the AIFM operates within these guidelines.
Risk management The AIFM has a responsibility for risk management for the Company which The AIFM has an ongoing process for identifying, is in addition to the Boards corporate governance responsibility for risk evaluating and managing the principal risks management.
faced by the Company and this is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board remains The Company has a Risk Management Process Document which is agreed responsible for the Companys system of risk with the Board and demonstrates that risk management is separated management and internal control and for functionally and hierarchically from operating units and demonstrates reviewing its effectiveness.
Further details can be independent safeguards.
The Manager maintains adequate risk found in the Strategic Report on pages 10 and management systems in order to identify, measure and monitor all risks 11 and in Note 17 to the Financial Statements on at least annually under the AIFMD.
The Manager is responsible for the pages 52 to 57. implementation of various risk activities such as risk systems, risk profile, risk limits and testing.
The Board, as part of UK corporate governance, remains responsible for the identification of significant risks and for the ongoing review of the Companys risk management and internal control processes.
Valuation of The Directive requires the disclosure of the percentage of the Alternative Not Applicable.
illiquid assets Investment Funds assets which are subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature and any new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company.
Leverage The Company uses leverage to increase its exposure primarily to the The maximum leverage limits are 1.80 for the stockmarkets of continental Europe and currently holds derivatives to Gross Method of calculating leverage and 1.50 achieve this.
The AIFM has set maximum levels of leverage that are for the Commitment Method.
It has implemented systems to calculate and monitor At 31 December 2017, actual leverage was 1.13 compliance against these limits and has ensured that the limits have been for both the Gross Method and Commitment complied with at all times.
There are two methods of calculating leverage the Gross Method which does not reduce exposure for hedging: and the Commitment Method which does reduce exposure for hedging.
Liquidity The AIFM, in consultation with the Board, maintains a liquidity No new arrangements for managing the liquidity management management policy which is considered at least annually.
of the Company have been made.
Further details can be found in Note 17 on page 54.
Remuneration of The AIFM operates under the terms of Fidelity Internationals Global Details of Fidelity Internationals Global the AIFM Remuneration Policy.
This ensures that the AIFM complies with the Remuneration Policy can be found at www.
requirements of the FCAs Remuneration Code SYSC19A : the AIFM .
com global remuneration Remuneration Code SYSC19B and the BIPRU Remuneration Code default.
EU Securities Financing Transactions Regulation SFTR The following disclosures relate to contracts for difference CFDs held by the Company which may be considered Total Return Swaps under the SFTR, which came into force on 12 January 2016.
As at 31 December 2017 all CFDs were contracted bilaterally with open maturities: Fair Value Percentage of Collateral Granted Collateral Received Broker 000 Net Assets 000 000 Deutsche Bank AG UK 1,515 0.15% 1,260 Goldman Sachs International UK 3,068 0.30% 3,460 HSBC Bank plc UK 3,240 0.31% 3,825 Collateral granted was denominated in UK sterling and held in a segregated account on behalf of the Company with a maturity of one day.
The total return for the year ended 31 December 2017 from CFDs was a profit of 1,831,000.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 69 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Fidelity, Fidelity International, the Fidelity International logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certied paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certied in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled bre from genuinewaste paper and 50% virgin bre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a veried, carbon osetting project.
