Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity Company relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal European Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Street, London amount of 520,560 approximately 5% of the aggregate EC4M 5TA on 14 May 2018 at 12 noon for the following purposes: nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company including Treasury shares as at 14 March 2018 and so that the 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Financial Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017. arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with Treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, 2.
To declare that a final dividend for the year ended legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws 31December 2017 of 4.35 pence per ordinary share be paid of, any territory or any other matter, such authority to expire at to shareholders on the register as at close of business on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting AGM of 23March 2018. the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall 3.
To re-elect Mr Vivian Bazalgette as a Director.
allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the 4.
To elect Ms Fleur Meijs as a Director.
expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority 5.
To re-elect Dr Robin Niblett as a Director.
conferred by this resolution had not expired.
All previous unexpired authorities are revoked, but without prejudice to any 6.
To re-elect Ms Marion Sears as a Director.
allotment of shares or grant of rights already made, offered or 7.
To re-elect Mr Paul Yates as a Director.
agreed to be made pursuant to such authorities.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the 12.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 11, set out above, section headed The Remuneration Policy set out on page 29 the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given 9.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor of the Company to by the said Resolution 11 and or to sell ordinary shares held hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at by the Company as Treasury shares for cash, as if Section 561 which financial statements are laid before the Company.
of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited: 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
a to the allotment of equity securities or sale of Treasury To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following special business shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 520,560 resolutions of which Resolutions 11 and 14 will be proposed as approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 12 and 13 as special resolutions.
issued share capital of the Company including Treasury shares as at 14 March 2018 : and Authority to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights Resolutions 11 and 12 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to b by the condition that allotments of equity securities or sales allot a limited number of the ordinary shares or sell any ordinary of Treasury shares may only be made pursuant to this shares which the Company elects to hold in Treasury for cash authority at a price of not less than the NAV per share, without first offering such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company including of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of Treasury shares in issue on 14 March 2018.
The Directors will only this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that this authority issue new ordinary shares, or dispose of ordinary shares held in shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before Treasury, under this authority to take advantage of opportunities in the expiry of this authority, and the Directors may allot equity the market as they arise and only if they believe it is advantageous securities in relation to such an offer or agreement as if the to the Companys shareholders to do so.
Any ordinary shares held authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
in Treasury would only be re-issued at net asset value NAV per share or at a premium to NAV per share.
This would ensure that the Authority to repurchase shares net effect of repurchasing and then re-issuing the ordinary shares Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew would enhance NAV per share.
the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the number of ordinary shares in issue excluding Treasury shares on 14 March 11.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and 2018 either for immediate cancellation or for retention as Treasury unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the shares, at the determination of the Board.
Once shares are held in Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of them in accordance with the Company to allot shares in the Company or to grant rights the relevant legislation by subsequently selling the shares for cash to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the or cancelling the shares.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be at the Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 59 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Notice of Meeting continued discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time Notes: by the Board in the light of prevailing market conditions.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV Annual General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to per share, thereby resulting in an increased NAV per share.
attend and to speak and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General 13.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each in the capital of the Company the 2.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the shares provided that: Registrar at the address on the form to arrive not later than noon on 10 May 2018.
Completion and return of the form a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently purchased shall be 62,238,806: attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary 3.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any share is 2.5 pence: power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some paid for each share is the higher of: other way approved by the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrar, Link Asset Services, PXS1, The i an amount eq ual to 105% of the average of the middle Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF not market quotations for a share taken from the London less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than immediately preceding the day on which the share is 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before purchased: and the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
ii the amount stipulated by Regulatory Technical Standards adopted by the European Commission 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders pursuant to Article 5 6 of the Market Abuse Regulation the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of EU No.
596 2014: the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the be determined by the order in which the names stand in the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Register of Members.
Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and 5.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST e t he Company may make a contract to purchase shares message must be received by the issuers agent RA10 by under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry 12 noon on 10 May 2018.
For this purpose, the time of of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the partly after the expiration of such authority and may make timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy Changes to the Investment Objective and Investment Policy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution which, if approved, will proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other amend the Companys Investment Objective and Investment Policy.
CREST sponsored members and those CREST Members who The full text of the Investment Objective and Investment Policy have appointed voting service provider s should contact their and the marked-up changes are in the Appendix to this Notice of CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with Meeting on pages 62 and 63. appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems timings please refer to the 14.
THAT the changes to the Investment Objective and Investment CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment Policy, as set out in the Appendix to this Notice of Meeting on sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 pages 62 and 63, be and are hereby approved and adopted a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any with immediate effect.
case your proxy form must be received by the Companys By Order of the Board Registrar no later than 12 noon on 10 May 2018.
FIL Investments International Secretary 14 March 2018 60 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 6.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM 11.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all determined by reference to the Register of Members as at of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in close of business on 10 May 2018. relation to the same shares.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person 12.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, agreement between him and the member by whom he was including communications relating to the Companys securities, nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone made at the meeting.
else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish 13.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting the Company may be required to publish on its website a rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the the appointment of proxies in Note 1 above does not apply to Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the Nominated Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM or only be exercised by members of the Company.
any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is the Annual Report and Financial Statements were laid.
The given discretion as to how the votes which are the subject Company may not require the shareholders requesting any of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of such website publication to pay its expenses in complying those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the with such requests.
Where the Company is required to place a Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to available on the website.
The business which may be dealt the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
As a result, with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has any member holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in to publish on its website.
respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure 14.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
and Transparency Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Companys website at www.
Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Register of Members by close of Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, business on 10 May 2018.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
be so entitled, members must be entered on the Register of Members by the close of business on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
As at 14 March 2018 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 416,447,910 ordinary shares.
The number of shares held in Treasury by the Company was 1,245,733.
Therefore, the total number of shares with voting rights in the Company as at 14 March 2018 was 415,202,177.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 61 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Appendix Changes to the Investment Objective and Investment Policy ii 5 per cent of gross assets may be invested in stocks of non-European countries where those stocks have some The proposed new Investment Objective and Investment Policy exposure to, or connection with Europe.
Any investments in for the Company, as proposed in resolution 14 on page 60 of the this category will count towards the 20 per cent maximum in Notice of Meeting is set out below and on page 63.
to the existing Investment Objective and Investment Policy are marked in black-line.
A maximum of 10 per cent of the Companys gross assets may be invested in the aggregate of: Proposed Investment Objective The Companys objective is Company aims to achieve long term a securities not listed on a recognised stock exchange: and capital growth principally from the stockmarkets of continental Europe.
in both capital and income by predominantly investing b holdings in which the interest of the Company amounts in equities and their related securities of continental European to 20per cent or more of the equity capital of any listed companies.
Summary of the key aspects of the Investment Policy The Company will not invest more than 10 per cent of gross assets The detailed proposed Investment Policy is set out below, the key in any one quoted company at the time of acquisition.
aspects of which are summarised as: A maximum of 5 per cent of the Companys gross assets may be The Investment Manager will typically focus on larger companies held in unquoted securities in aggregate at any one time.
which show good prospects for sustainable long term dividend growth.
The Investment Manager is not restricted in terms of size, The maximum amount of cash or cash equivalents held by the industry or geographical split.
The Company may also invest into Company will be 25 per cent of the Companys total net assets, other transferable securities, investment companies, money market but this limit will not include any cash or cash equivalent paid as instruments, cash and deposits and is also able to use derivatives for collateral for unrealised losses on derivatives.
In practice the cash efficient portfolio management, to gain additional market exposure position will normally be much lower.
gearing and for investment purposes.
The Investment Manager must work within the guidelines set out in the Investment Policy.
The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets of up to 10 per cent of the Companys total net assets.
Proposed Investment Policy The Company invests principally predominantly in continental The Board also reserves the right to hedge the portfolio by way of European securities companies with a view to achieving long term currency.
capital growth in both capital and income for Shareholders.
The portfolio is selected by the Investment Manager on the basis of A maximum of 10 per cent of the Companys gross assets may be its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual invested in the securities of other investment companies including situations and with a typical focus on larger companies which listed investment trusts.
show prospects for sustainable long term dividend growth.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual countries The Company may utilise derivative instruments, including and industry sectors is monitored, the portfolio is not structured index-linked notes, futures, contracts for differences CFDs, primarily on a country or industrial weightings basis, restricted covered call options, put options and other equity-related in terms of size, industry, or geographical split, although certain derivative instruments on a limited basis as a tool to meet the investment restrictions apply in an attempt to diversify risk.
investment objective of the Company.
They are used principally in the following ways: A minimum of 80 per cent of gross assets will be invested in companies from countries which are included in the Benchmark As an alternative form of gearing to bank loans.
The Company Index the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index.
would enter into long CFDs which would achieve an equivalent effect to buying an asset financed by bank borrowing but often A maximum of: at lower financing costs.
i 20 per cent of gross assets may be invested in stocks of To hedge equity market risks where suitable protection can European countries which are not included in the Companys be purchased to limit the downside of a falling market at a Benchmark Index.
This will include investing in UK companies, reasonable cost.
defined as companies in the FTSE All-Share Index: and To enhance the investment returns by taking short exposures European country for the purposes of this paragraph means a country included on stocks that the Investment Manager considers to be within the FTSE All-World Europe Index and non-European is to be construed over-valued.
62 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 Appendix continued To enhance returns through writing covered call options and writing put options.
The Board has created strict policies and exposure limits and sub-limits to manage derivatives.
These limits and their impacts are monitored by the Manager on a daily basis and reported regularly to the Board.
The Companys normal policy is to be geared in the belief that long term investment returns will exceed the costs of gearing.
This gearing will be obtained through the use of borrowing and or through the use of CFDs to obtain exposure to securities selected by the Investment Manager.
The effect of gearing is to magnify the consequence of market movements on the portfolio and if the portfolio value rises the NAV will be positively impacted, but if it falls the NAV will be adversely impacted.
The Board is responsible for the order of magnitude of gearing in the Company while the Investment Manager decides gearing on a day-to-day basis within a range set by the Board.
Gearing is reviewed at every Board meeting.
The aggregate exposure of the Company to equities, including as a result of borrowing and the use of derivatives, but excluding hedging, will not exceed 130 per cent of total net assets a gearing level of 30 per cent at the time at which any derivative contract is entered into or a security acquired.
The aggregate exposure of the Company under short derivatives, excluding hedges and covered call options, will not exceed 10 per cent of total net assets at the time at which any derivative contract is entered into.
The aggregate exposure of the Company under covered call options, being the notional exposure of the calls will not exceed 20 per cent of total net assets at the time at which any derivative is entered into.
The notional exposure of covered call options is the number of contracts written x the notional contract size x the market value of the underlying share.
It should be stressed that the majority of the Companys exposure to equities will be through direct investment, not through derivatives.
In addition, the limits on exposure to individual companies and groups will be calculated on the basis that the Company has acquired the securities to which any derivative is providing exposure.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 63 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
