Notice of meeting continued Notes: i Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 of the 2006 Act, the Company gives notice that only holders of ordinary shares entered on the register of members no later than 8.00pm on 21 May 2018 or, in the event of any adjournment, 8pm on the day which is two days before the adjourned meeting will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and a member may vote in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in the members name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
ii A registered member of the Company may appoint one or more proxies in respect of some or all of their ordinary shares to exercise that members rights to attend, speak and vote at a meeting of the Company instead of the member.
A registered member appointing multiple proxies must ensure that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attaching to different shares and must specify on the proxy form the number of shares in relation to which that proxy is appointed.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY.
Members or their duly appointed proxies are requested to bring proof of identity with them to the meeting in order to confirm their identity for security reasons.
A shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting in accordance with section 319A of the 2006 Act.
In certain circumstances prescribed by the same section, the Company need not answer a question.
iii The pr oxy form must be executed by or on behalf of the member making the appointment.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
A corporation may execute the form s of proxy either under its common seal or under the hand of a duly authorised officer, attorney or other authorised person.
A member may appoint more than one proxy to attend and vote on the same occasion.
iv A pr oxy need not be a member of the Company.
v Participants of the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan may instruct the trustee to vote on their behalf on a poll.
vi The pr oxy form and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power or authority must be received at the office of the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY or received via the Computershare website, www.
co. uk eproxy full details of the procedures are given in the notes to the proxy form enclosed with the report and accounts and on the website not less than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion of the proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST proxy instruction as described in paragraph vii below will not preclude a member from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person instead of through his proxy or proxies.
Voting on all substantive resolutions will be by a poll.
When announcing the results of the poll voting, the Company will disclose the total number of votes in favour and against and the number of abstentions on the Company website www.
co. uk and through a Regulatory Information Service.
If a member returns both paper and electronic proxy instructions, those received last by the Registrar before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Members are advised to read the website terms and conditions of use carefully.
vii T o appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. viii CREST members and, wher e applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
ix Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph ii above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by members of the Company.
x As at 23 Mar ch 2018 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 134,675,804 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 23 March 2018 are 134,675,804.
| 152 Supplementary information Notice of meeting continued xi Under section 527 of the 2006 Act, members meeting the r elevant threshold requirements set out in that section may require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General Meeting that the members propose to raise at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on a website.
xii Under sections 338 and 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the thr eshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: a to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or b to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business unless i in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective, ii it is defamatory of any person, or iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 9 April 2018, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included on the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
xiii Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answer ed any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
xiv Except as pr ovided above, members who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the Annual General Meeting should do so using the following means: 1 by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office address: or 2 by writing to the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
In particular you may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of meeting or in any related documents including the Chairmans Statement, the Annual Report 2017 and the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
xv A copy of this Notice and other information r equired to be published in accordance with section 311A of the 2006 Act in advance of the Annual General Meeting can be found at www.
xvi The following documents will be available for inspection at the Company s registered office, during normal business hours, on any weekday excluding public holidays from the date of this Notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and on that date they will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 1.30pm until the conclusion of the meeting: a copies of the directors service contracts: b copies of the terms and conditions of appointment for each non-executive director: and c the register of directors interests.
xvii The r esults of the voting at the Annual General Meeting will be announced through a Regulatory Information Service and will appear on the Companys website, www.
co. uk, as soon as reasonably practicable following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
xviii Data pr otection statement: your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data is to be processed.
The Company and any third party to which it discloses the data including the Companys Registrar may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise.
Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Reports and accounts The directors are required to present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors, the strategic report and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The report of the directors, the strategic report, the accounts and the report of the Companys auditors on the accounts and on those parts of the directors remuneration report that are capable of being audited are contained within the Companys annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Item 2: Directors annual remuneration report Under section 439 of the 2006 Act, the directors are required to present the directors remuneration report prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, for the approval of shareholders by way of an advisory vote.
The directors remuneration report, the relevant pages of which can be found on pages 78 to 97 of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, gives details of the directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2017 and sets out the way in which the Company will implement its policy on directors remuneration during 2018.
The Companys auditors, , have audited those parts of the directors remuneration report capable of being audited and their report may be found on pages 108 to 114 of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 153 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued The vote on the directors remuneration report is advisory in nature in that payments made or promised to directors will not have to be repaid, reduced or withheld in the event that this resolution is not passed.
However, if the vote on the directors remuneration report is not passed, the directors remuneration policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the next Annual General Meeting.
A copy of the directors remuneration policy, which was approved at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, is available on the website at www.
co. uk or in hard copy on request from the Group Company Secretary.
Item 3: Final dividend Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 25 May 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 April 2018.
Items 4 to 10: Re-appointment of directors The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires FTSE 350 companies to put all directors forward for re-appointment by shareholders on an annual basis.
The purpose of this requirement is to increase accountability to shareholders.
Accordingly, all the directors of the Company will retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-appointment, with the exception of Alastair Lyons who will have completed nine years service with the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association require that any director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the first annual general meeting for which notice is first given after their appointment.
Accordingly, Mike Stansfield will offer himself for re-appointment on this basis.
The Code contains provisions dealing with the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In relation to the re-appointment of Chris Browne, Ralph Findlay, Nigel Keen and Mike Stansfield as non-executive directors, the Chairman has confirmed following the formal performance evaluation conducted during late 2017 that they continue to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings.
Chris Browne provides a strong commercial and operational background in a consumer facing industry.
Ralph Findlay adds strong commercial, financial and general management expertise, again from a consumer facing industry.
Nigel Keen brings an in-depth construction and property background and experience of managing property strategy and portfolios, once again from a consumer facing industry.
Mike Stansfield was newly appointed in November 2017 but brings considerable housing developer experience.
Ian Tyler, non-executive Chairman, has considerable construction industry knowledge and international business experience.
The Board strongly supports and recommends the re-appointment of the directors to shareholders.
Biographical details of all the directors can be found on pages 58 to 59 of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Items 11 and 12: appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 11 proposes the re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors,  LLP, as the Companys auditors, for a further year.
 LLP were first appointed at the 2015 AGM.
Resolution 12 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Item 13: Authority to allot shares The authority given to your directors at last years Annual General Meeting under section 551 of the 2006 Act to allot shares expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, this resolution seeks to grant a new authority under section 551 to authorise the directors to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,423,521 and also gives the Board authority to allot, in addition to these shares, further of the Companys shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,847,042 in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing members by way of a rights issue with exclusions to deal with fractional entitlements to shares and overseas shareholders to whom the rights issue cannot be made due to legal and practical problems.
This is in accordance with the latest institutional guidelines published by the Investment Association.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The amount of 22,423,521 represents less than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 23 March 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The amount of 44,847,042 represents less than 66.6% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 23 March 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The Company did not hold any shares in treasury as at 23 March 2018.
The Board has no present intention to exercise this authority other than in connection with employee share schemes.
It wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
If the Board takes advantage of the additional authority to issue shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company representing more than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue or for a rights issue where the monetary proceeds exceed 33.3% of the Companys pre-issue market capitalisation, all members of the Board wishing to remain in office will stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting following the decision to make the relevant share issue.
| 154 Supplementary information Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Item 14: Notice of general meetings This resolution is required as a result of the implementation in 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive increased the notice period for general meetings under the 2006 Act to 21 days.
The Company will be able to continue to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice as long as shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, where it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
It is confirmed that the ability to call a general meeting on 14 clear days notice would only be utilised in limited circumstances and where the shorter notice period will be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Item 15: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 15 seeks authority for the directors to issue equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act in the Company for cash as if the pre-emption provisions of section 561 of the 2006 Act did not apply.
Other than in connection with a rights issue or any other pre-emptive offers concerning equity securities, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to the issue of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,366,895 which represents approximately 5% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 23 March 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In accordance with the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles, the directors confirm their intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis during any rolling threeyear period.
This resolution seeks a disapplication of the pre-emption rights on a rights issue so as to allow the directors to make exclusions or such other arrangements as may be appropriate to resolve legal or practical problems which, for example, might arise with overseas members.
There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by resolution 15 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Item 16: Authority to purchase own shares This resolution renews the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 13,467,580 of its own shares, representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 23 March 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority rules and Investment Association guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the directors believe that the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but would like to have the flexibility of considering such purchases in the future.
Any purchases of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses would be 50 pence, being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2019.
As at 23 March 2018 there were options over 604,529 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 0.45% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 0.50% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
