STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: consolidated and stand alone Financial Statements in accordance with The consolidated and stand-alone financial statements, prepared in applicable law and regulations.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Company law requires us to prepare financial statements for each financial loss of the Company and the Group taken as a whole.
As required, we have prepared the accompanying consolidated and The Strategic Report and Directors Report contained in this Annual separate statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Report include a fair review of the development and performance Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
of the business and the position of the Company and the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties We must not approve the accompanying consolidated and stand alone that it faces.
financial statements unless we are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the We consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
fair, balanced and understandable and gives shareholders the information needed to assess the Groups position and performance, business model In preparing the accompanying consolidated and separate financial and strategy.
statements, we are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: By order of the Board Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures Neil Janin Irakli Gilauri disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Chairman CEO Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 7 March 2018 7 March 2018 it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue inbusiness.
We are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys and the Groups transactions, to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group, and to enable us to ensure that the consolidated and stand alone financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated and stand alone financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have further responsibility for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
We are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in otherjurisdictions.
114 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC
