Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Shareholder taxation information The following discussion summarises material US federal income tax consequences and UK taxation consequences to US holders of owning and disposing of ordinary shares or ADSs.
This discussion does not address any tax consequences arising under the laws of any state, local or foreign jurisdiction or under any US federal laws other than those pertaining to income tax.
This discussion is based upon the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986 the US Tax Code, the Treasury regulations promulgated under the US Tax Code and court and administrative rulings and decisions, all as in effect on the date hereof.
These laws may change, possibly retroactively, and any change could affect the accuracy of the statements and conclusions set forth in this discussion.
This discussion addresses only those US holders of ordinary shares or ADSs who hold such equity interests as capital assets within the meaning of Section 1221 of the US Tax Code.
Further, this discussion does not address all aspects of US federal income taxation that may be relevant to US holders in light of their particular circumstances or that may be applicable to them if they are subject to special treatment under the US federal income tax laws, including, without limitation: a bank or other financial institution: a US holder that received ordinary shares or ADSs through the exercise of an employee stock option, pursuant to a tax qualified a tax-exempt organisation: retirement plan or otherwise as compensation: an S corporation or other pass-through entity and an investor therein: a US holder that is a tax-qualified retirement plan or a participant an insurance company: or a beneficiary under such a plan: a mutual fund: a person that is not a US holder as defined below : a regulated investment company or real estate investment trust: a person that has a functional currency other than the US dollar: a dealer or broker in stocks and securities, or currencies: a person required to recognise any item of gross income as a result of such income being recognised on an applicable financial statement: a trader in securities that elects mark-to-market treatment: a US holder of ordinary shares or ADSs that holds such equity interest a US holder subject to the alternative minimum tax provisions of the as part of a hedge, straddle, constructive sale, conversion or other US Tax Code: integrated transaction: or a US expatriate.
The determination of the actual tax consequences to a US holder will depend on the US holders specific situation.
US holders of ordinary shares or ADSs should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares or ADSs, in each case, including the applicability and effect of the alternative minimum tax and any state, local, foreign or other tax laws and of changes in those laws.
For purposes of this discussion, the term US holder means a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs as the case may be that: is for US federal income tax purposes i an individual citizen or resident of the United States, ii a corporation, including any entity treated as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes, created or organised in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, iii a trust if a US court is able to exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust or it has a valid election in effect under applicable Treasury regulations to be treated as a US person, or iv an estate that is subject to US federal income tax on its income regardless of its source: and is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes.
The US federal income tax consequences to a partner in an entity or arrangement treated as a partnership for US federal income tax purposes that holds ordinary shares or ADSs generally will depend on the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership.
Partners in a partnership holding any such equity interest should consult their own tax advisors.
Material US federal income tax consequences relating to the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs The following is a discussion of the material US federal income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition by US holders of ordinary shares or ADSs.
This discussion assumes that BAT is not, and will not become, a passive foreign investment company for US federal income tax purposes, as described below.
ADSs A US holder of ADSs, for US federal income tax purposes, generally will be treated as the owner of the underlying ordinary shares that are represented by such ADSs.
Accordingly, deposits or withdrawals of ordinary shares for or from ADSs will not be subject to US federal income tax.
Taxation of Dividends The gross amount of distributions on the ordinary shares or ADSs will be taxable as dividends to the extent paid out of BATs current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined under US federal income tax principles.
Such income will be includable in a US holders gross income as ordinary income on the day actually or constructively received by the US holder.
Such dividends will be treated as foreign source income and will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction allowed to corporations under the US Tax Code.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 243 Shareholder information Shareholder taxation information continued With respect to non-corporate US investors, certain dividends received from a qualified foreign corporation may be subject to reduced rates of taxation.
A qualified foreign corporation includes a foreign corporation that is eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty with the United States that the Treasury determines to be satisfactory for these purposes and that includes an exchange of information provision.
The Treasury has determined that the treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom meets these requirements, and BAT believes that it is eligible for the benefits of the treaty.
However, non-corporate holders that do not meet a minimum holding period requirement during which they are not protected from the risk of loss or that elect to treat the dividend income as investment income pursuant to Section 163 d 4 of the US Tax Code will not be eligible for the reduced rates of taxation.
In addition, the rate reduction will not apply to dividends if the recipient of a dividend is obligated to make related payments with respect to positions in substantially similar or related property.
This disallowance applies even if the minimum holding period has been met.
US holders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the application of these rules to their particular circumstances.
The amount of any dividend paid by BAT in pounds sterling including any such amount in respect of ADSs that is converted into US dollars by the depositary bank will equal the US dollar value of the pounds sterling actually or constructively received, calculated by reference to the exchange rate in effect on the date the dividend is so received by the US holder, regardless of whether the pounds sterling are converted into US dollars.
If the pounds sterling received as a dividend are converted into US dollars on the date received, the US holder generally will not be required to recognise foreign currency exchange gain or loss in respect of the dividend income.
If the pounds sterling received as a dividend are not converted into US dollars on the date of receipt, the US holder will have a basis in pounds sterling equal to their US dollar value on the date of receipt.
Any gain or loss realised on a subsequent conversion or other disposition of pounds sterling will be treated as US source ordinary income or loss.
US holders of ADSs should consult their own tax advisors regarding the application of these rules to the amount of any dividend paid by BAT in pounds sterling that is converted into US dollars by the depositary bank.
To the extent that the amount of any distribution exceeds BATs current and accumulated earnings and profits for a taxable year, as determined under US federal income tax principles, the distribution will first be treated as a tax-free return of capital, causing a reduction in the US holders adjusted basis of the ordinary shares or ADSs, and to the extent the amount of the distribution exceeds the US holders tax basis, the excess will be taxed as capital gain recognised on a sale or exchange, as described below.
BAT does not expect to determine earnings and profits in accordance with US federal income tax principles.
Therefore, notwithstanding the foregoing, US holders should expect that distributions generally will be reported as dividend income for US information reporting purposes.
Distributions by BAT of additional ordinary shares which may be distributed by the depositary bank to a holder of ADSs in the form of ADSs to a US holder that is made as part of a pro rata distribution to all holders of ordinary shares and ADSs in respect of their ordinary shares or ADSs, and for which there is no option to receive other property not including ADSs, generally will not be subject to US federal income tax.
The basis of any new ordinary shares or ADSs representing new ordinary shares so received will be determined by allocating the US holders basis in the previously held ordinary shares or ADSs between the previously held ordinary shares or ADSs and the new ordinary shares or ADSs, based on their relative fair market values on the date of distribution.
Passive foreign investment company A passive foreign investment company, referred to as a PFIC, is any foreign corporation if, after the application of certain look-through rules, 1 at least 75% of its gross income is passive income as that term is defined in the relevant provisions of the US Tax Code, or 2 at least 50% ofthe average value of its assets produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income.
The determination as to PFIC statusis made annually.
BAT does not believe that it is, for US federal income tax purposes, a PFIC, and BAT expects to operate in such a manner so as not to become a PFIC.
If, however, BAT is or becomes a PFIC, US holders could be subject to additional US federal income taxes on gain recognised with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs and on certain distributions, plus an interest charge on certain taxes treated as having been deferred under the PFIC rules.
Non-corporate US holders will not be eligible for reduced rates of taxation on any dividends received from BAT if it is a PFIC in the taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the preceding taxable year.
BATs US counsel expresses no opinion with respect to BATs PFIC status.
Taxation of capital gains Upon a sale, exchange or other taxable disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs, a US holder will generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised on the disposition and the US holders adjusted tax basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs as determined in US dollars.
Such gain or loss generally will be US source gain or loss, and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the US holder has held the ordinary shares or ADSs for more than one year.
Certain non-corporate US holders may be eligible for preferential rates of US federal income tax in respect of net long-term capital gains.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to limitations.
The amount realised on a sale, exchange or other taxable disposition of ordinary shares for an amount in foreign currency will be the US dollar value of that amount on the date of sale or disposition.
On the settlement date, the US holder will recognise US source foreign currency exchange gain or loss taxable as ordinary income or loss equal to the difference if any between the US dollar value of the amount received based on the exchange rates in effect on the date of sale, exchange or other disposition and the settlement date.
However, in the case of ordinary shares traded on an established securities market that are sold by a cash-basis US holder or an accrual-basis US holder that so elects, the amount realised will be based on the exchange rate in effect on the settlement date for the sale, and no foreign currency exchange gain or loss will be recognised at that time.
A US holders tax basis in ordinary shares or ADSs will generally equal the US dollar cost of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
The US dollar cost of ordinary shares purchased with foreign currency will generally be the US dollar value of the purchase price on the date of purchase, or the settlement date for the purchase in the case of ordinary shares traded on an established securities market that are purchased by a cash-basis US holder or an accrual-basis US holder that so elects.
244 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Information with respect to foreign financial assets Individuals and certain entities that own specified foreign financial assets with an aggregate value in excess of US$50,000 are generally required to file information reports with respect to such assets with their US federal income tax returns.
Depending on the individuals circumstances, higher threshold amounts may apply.
Specified foreign financial assets include any financial accounts maintained by foreign financial institutions, as well as any of the following, but only if they are not held in accounts maintained by financial institutions: 1 stocks and securities issued by non-US persons, 2 financial instruments and contracts held for investment that have non-US issuers or counterparties and 3 interests in non-US entities.
If a US holder is subject to this information reporting regime, the failure to file information reports may subject the US holder to penalties.
US holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding their obligations to file information reports with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs.
Medicare net investment tax Certain persons who are individuals other than nonresident aliens, estates or trusts are required to pay an additional 3.8% tax on the lesser of 1 their net investment income in the case of individuals or undistributed net investment income in the case of estates and trusts which includes dividend income in respect of, and gain recognised on the disposition of, ordinary shares or ADSs for the relevant taxable year and 2 the excess of their modified adjusted gross income in the case of individuals or adjusted gross income in the case of estates and trusts for the taxable year over specified dollar amounts.
US holders are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the applicability of this provision to their ownership of ordinary shares or ADSs.
Credits or deductions for UK taxes As indicated under Material UK Tax Consequences below, dividends in respect of, and gains on the disposition of, ordinary shares or ADSs, may be subject to UK taxation in certain circumstances.
A US holder may be eligible to claim a credit or deduction in respect of UK taxes attributable to such income or gain for purposes of computing the US holders US federal income tax liability, subject to certain limitations.
The US foreign tax credit rules are complex, and US holders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the availability of US foreign tax credits and the application of the US foreign tax credit rules to their particular situation.
Information reporting and backup withholding Information reporting and backup withholding may apply to dividend payments and proceeds from the sale, exchange or other taxable disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs.
Backup withholding will not apply, however, to a US holder that 1 furnishes a correct taxpayer identification number, referred to as a TIN, certifies that such holder is not subject to backup withholding on Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or appropriate successor form and otherwise complies with all applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules or 2 provides proof that such holder is otherwise exempt from backup withholding.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax, and any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules may be refunded or credited against a holders US federal income tax liability, if any, provided that such holder furnishes the required information to the Internal Revenue Service in a timely manner.
The Internal Revenue Service may impose a penalty upon any taxpayer that fails to provide the correct TIN.
This summary of material US federal income tax consequences is not tax advice.
The determination of the actual tax consequences for a US holder will depend on the US holders specific situation.
US holders of ordinary shares or ADSs, in each case, should consult their own tax advisors as to the tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares or ADSs, including the applicability and effect of the alternative minimum tax and any state, local, foreign or other tax laws and of changes in those laws.
Material UK tax consequences The following paragraphs set out below summarise material aspects of the UK tax treatment of US holders of ordinary shares or ADSs and do not purport to be either a complete analysis of all tax considerations relating to holding ordinary shares or ADSs or an analysis of the tax position of BAT.
They are based on current UK legislation and what is understood to be current HM Revenue & Customs practice, both of which are subject to change, possibly with retrospective effect.
The comments are intended as a general guide and otherwise than where expressly stated to the contrary apply only to US holders of ordinary shares or ADSs other than under a personal equity plan or individual savings account and who are the absolute beneficial owners of such shares.
These comments do not deal with certain types of shareholders such as charities, dealers in securities, persons holding or acquiring shares in the course of a trade, persons who have or could be treated for tax purposes as having acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs by reason of their employment, collective investment schemes, persons subject to UK tax on the remittance basis and insurance companies.
You are encouraged to consult an appropriate independent professional tax advisor with respect to your tax position.
Tax on chargeable gains as a result of disposals of ordinary shares or ADSs Subject to the below, US holders will not generally be subject to UK tax on chargeable gains on a disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs provided that they do not carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which the ordinary shares or ADSs are held.
A US holder who is an individual, who has ceased to be resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom for a period of less than five years and who disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs during that period may be liable for UK tax on capital gains in the absence of any available exemptions or reliefs.
If applicable, the tax charge will arise in the tax year that the individual returns to the United Kingdom.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 245 Shareholder information Shareholder taxation information continued Tax on dividends BAT is not required to withhold UK tax at source from dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
US holders will not generally be subject to UK tax on dividends received from BAT provided that they do not carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which the ordinary shares or ADSs are held.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax, referred to as SDRT Based on current published HM Revenue & Customs practice and recent case law, transfers of ADSs should not be subject to SDRT or stamp duty provided that any instrument of transfer is executed and remains outside the UK and the transfer of an underlying ordinary share to the ADS holder in exchange for the cancellation of an ADS should also not give rise to a stamp duty or SDRT charge.
Transfers of ordinary shares outside of the depositary bank, including the repurchase of ordinary shares by BAT, will generally be subject to stamp duty or SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration given, except as described above in connection with the cancellation of an ADS.
If ordinary shares are redeposited into a clearance service or depositary system, the redeposit will attract stamp duty or SDRT at the higher rate of 1.5%.
The purchaser or the transferee of the ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be responsible for paying any stamp duty or SDRT payable.
Where stamp duty or SDRT is payable, it is payable regardless of the residence position of the purchaser.
Inheritance tax A gift or settlement of ordinary shares or ADSs by, or on the death of, an individual shareholder may give rise to a liability to UK inheritance tax even if the shareholder is not a resident of or domiciled in the United Kingdom.
A charge to inheritance tax may arise in certain circumstances where ordinary shares or ADSs are held by close companies and trustees of settlements.
However, pursuant to the Estate and Gift Tax Treaty 1980, referred to as the Treaty, entered into between the United Kingdom and the United States, a gift or settlement of ordinary shares or ADSs by shareholders who are domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Treaty may be exempt from any liability to UK inheritance tax.
246 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
