Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Property, plant and equipment The Group uses a mixture of in-house and contract manufacturers to manufacture its next generation products.
1 BAT-owned manufacturing facilities United States Western Europe Asia-Pacific Americas EEMEA Total Fully Integrated cigarettes manufacturing 2 7 14 7 15 45 Sites processing tobacco only 1 2 6 7 3 19 Site manufacturing other tobacco products only 3 3 0 0 0 6 Research and Development facilities 1 2 1 2 1 7 Total 7 14 21 16 19 77 Note: 1 As of 31 December 2017.
The plants and properties owned or leased and operated by the Groups subsidiaries are maintained in good condition and are believed to be suitable and adequate for the Groups present needs.
As a result of the acquisition of the Blue Nile Cigarette Company Limited, the Group is currently investing in bringing an acquired factory to a condition deemed appropriate by the Group.
The Group is progressing with the plans to close its factory in Bayreuth, Germany and to transfer its production to existing factories in Poland, Romania, Hungary and Croatia.
The technology employed in cigarette factories is sophisticated, especially in the area of cigarette making and packing where throughputs can reach between 500 and 1000 packs per minute.
The Group can produce many different pack formats e. g. the number of cigarettes per packet and configurations e. g. bevel edge, round corner, international to suit marketing and consumer requirements.
New technology machines are sourced from the leading machinery suppliers to the industry.
Close cooperation with these organisations helps the Group support its marketing strategy by driving its product innovations, which are brought to the market on a regular basis.
The Group utilises quality standards, processes and procedures covering the entire end-to-end value chain to help to ensure quality products are provided to its customers and adult tobacco consumers according to the Groups requirements and end market regulatory requirements.
The Group has several improvement initiatives which it is currently managing.
For example, the Group is continuing to realise the benefits of its Integrated Work System Program launched in 2014, which is centrally led with an aim to improve the performance of the Groups factories globally by focusing on manufacturing standards, continuous improvement, assessment and benchmarking and organisational development.
The Group also utilises a survey process in the factories with an aim to improve factory productivity and reduce costs in the manufacturing environment.
This process, known as Bulls Eye, has been in existence for a number of years and highlights productivity opportunities by benchmarking.
In 2017, the Group manufactured cigarettes in 45 cigarette factories in 42countries.
These plants and properties are owned or leased and operated by the Groups subsidiaries.
The Groups factory outputs and establishments vary significantly in size and production capacity.
For more information on property, plant and equipment, see note 10 in the Notes on the Accounts.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 235
