Consolidated Financial Statements Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Date announced Shareholdings Announcement of Group results As at 31 December 2017, there were about 3,700 shareholders onthe register of members.
Half-year result August Annual results March Dividends Report and accounts Posted March Shareholders will receive their dividend payment in sterling unless they have elected to receive it in US dollars.
If you wish to receive your dividends in US dollars, your appropriate election must be Share price information received by the Companys registrar no later than 5.30 pm on The price of the Companys shares is available at 30 April 2018.
Please note that if you have previously made a valid www.
election, that election will cover all future dividend payments and For the purpose of Capital Gains Tax CGT calculations, the base a new election is not required.
The dividend will be converted at a prevailing exchange rate on 1 May 2018 and this exchange rate cost of the old BBA Group plc shares held immediately before the demerger on 17 November 2006 has to be apportioned between will be announced on 2 May 2018.
BBA Aviation plc shares and Fiberweb plc shares.
The ratio is BBA Aviation plc shares 84.73%, Fiberweb plc shares 15.27%.
This is Dividend Reinvestment Plan based on the respective market values on 17 November 2006, A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is available, giving ordinary determined according to CGT rules at that time, of 281.155p for shareholders the option to buy shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
BBA Aviation plc shares and 170.5p for Fiberweb plc shares.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan terms and conditions are available upon request from the Companys registrar via the registrars This information is provided as indicative guidance.
Any person helpline on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus network wishing to calculate their CGT should take their own financial advice extras: lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday: from their accountant or other authorised financial adviser and overseas 44 0 371 664 0300, by e-mail: shareholder.
services@ if they are in any doubt about their taxation position they should linkgroup.
Share dealing service Company registrar A share dealing service is available for UK shareholders from Link Asset Services Link Asset Services to either sell or buy BBA Aviation plc shares.
The Registry For further information on this service, please visit 34 Beckenham Road www.
com on-line dealing or 0371 664 0445 Beckenham telephone dealing.
Call costs vary by provider.
Lines are BR3 4TU open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus network charges ShareGift Lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which From outside the UK: 44 0 371 664 0300 makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating E-mail: enquiries@linkgroup.
co. uk them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity Website: www.
Further information is available by visiting Please contact the registrar directly if you wish to advise a change www.
org or by telephoning ShareGift on 020 7930 3737. of name, address or dividend mandate or wish to participate in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan or wish to elect to take your dividend in Financial calendar Date payable US dollars rather than receive it in the default currency of sterling.
Dividend and interest payments You can access general shareholder information and personal Ordinary shares: shareholding details from our registrars website.
Our registrar provides a share portal through which you can view up-to-date final 2017 May 2018 information and manage your shareholding.
You can register for interim 2018 November 2018 this service via www.
You will require your Investor 5% cumulative preference shares February 2018 and August 2018 Code IVC, which can be found on your share certificate or dividend confirmation, to register for the share portal service or to access other information from the registrars website.
Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares, not to the Companys registrar, or to the Company.
179 Consolidated Financial Statements Shareholder Information Financial statements Shareholder Information continued 95 Consolidated Income Statement Warning to shareholders boiler room share scams 96 Consolidated Statement Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, of Comprehensive or offered an inflated price for shares that investors already own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are Income mostly based abroad.
BBA Aviation plc isaware that, in common with other companies, a small number of our shareholders have received 97 Consolidated Balance unsolicited telephone calls concerning their investment in the Company, which may have been from fraudsters.
Sheet Callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are advised not to give details of their e-mail addresses or 98 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement other personal details to any third party that they do not know.
Further information can be found on the Companys website at www.
com under investors and shareholder information.
99 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Table of information in compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C 100 Accounting Policies of theGroup Clauses Reference A statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the period under review with an indication of Note 3 to the 107 Notes to the Consolidated Financial the amount and treatment of any related tax relief.
Consolidated Financial Statements Statements 155 Company Balance Sheet Details of any contract of significance subsisting during the period under review: Note 26 to the a to which the listed Company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and in which a director of the listed Consolidated Financial 156 Company Statement of Changes in Equity Company is or was materially interested: and Statements b between the listed Company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, and a controlling shareholder.
157 Accounting Policies of theCompany Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends, where a Note 21 to the shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, details of such waiver together with those relating to dividends Consolidated Financial 159 Notes to the Company which are payable during the period under review.
Statements Financial Statements 166 Subsidiaries and Related Any matters not listed above are not applicable.
Undertakings 173 Five Year Summary Registered office 105 Wigmore Street 174 Alternative Performance London W1U 1QY Measures Telephone: 44 0 20 7514 3999 179 Shareholder Information Fax: 44 0 20 7408 2318 www.
com Registered in England Company number: 53688 180 This Annual Report is addressed solely to members of BBA Aviation plc as a body.
Neither the Company nor its directors, employees, agents and advisors accept or assume responsibility to any person for this Annual Report beyond the responsibilities arising from the production of this Annual Report under the requirements of applicable English company law.
Sections of this Annual Report, including but not limited to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report may contain forward-looking statements about certain of BBA Aviation plcs current plans, goals and expectations relating to future financial condition, performance, results, strategy and objectives including, without limitation, statements relating to: future demand and markets of the Groups products and services: research and development relating to new products and services: liquidity and capital: andimplementation of restructuring plans and efficiencies.
Statements containing the words believes, intends, targets, estimates, expects, plans, seeks and anticipates and any other words of similar meaning are forward-looking.
These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances thatwill or may occur in the future which may be beyond BBA Aviation plcs control.
Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of a variety offactors including, without limitation: changes in interest andexchange rates, commodity prices and other economic conditions: negotiations with customers relating to renewals ofcontracts and future volumes and prices: events affecting international security, including global health issues and terrorism: changes in regulatory environment: and the outcome of litigation.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this document or anyother forward-looking statements it may make, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Consequently, such forward-looking statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties including, without limitation, both economic and business risk factors underlying such forward-looking statements or information.
Pages 1 to 88 inclusive consist of a Strategic Report and Directors Report including the Directors Remuneration Report that have been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law.
The liability of the directors in connection with such reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by, and shall be no greater than is required by, applicable English company law.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Designed by MSLGROUP Photography by GoConvergence & Roshie Jones Board photography by Anna Batchelor, Jo Hanley, The Headshot Guy & David Woolfall Printed by PureprintGroup BBA Aviation plc Registered Office 105 Wigmore Street London, W1U 1QY Telephone 44 0 20 7514 3999 Fax 44 0 20 7408 2318 Registered in England Company number 53688 www.
