2013 include the discontinued German operations not restated.
2 Excludes non-recourse loans, Germany non-controlling interest loan and share buyback obligation.
3 Calculated on a 52 week basis to reflect growth on a comparable period.
Like for like definition restated to exclude split territories.
4 Historical years have been adjusted to reflect the share split of three shares for one made on 27 June 2016.
132 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Shareholder information Advisers and principal service providers Registered office Solicitors 1 Thornbury Norton Rose Fulbright LLP West Ashland More London Riverside Milton Keynes London MK6 4BB SE1 2AQ 01908 580000 Registrars Investor website: http: investors.
co. uk Equiniti Limited Broker and corporate finance advisers Aspect House Numis Securities Limited Spencer Road The London Stock Exchange Lancing 10 Paternoster Square West Sussex London BN99 6DA EC4M 7LT If you hold your shares direct and not through a Savings Scheme or ISA Credit Suisse and have queries relating to your shareholding, please contact the One Cabot Square registrars: London E14 4QJ Callers in the UK: 0371 384 2895 Auditor Callers from outside the UK: 44 121 415 0926 Ernst & Young LLP No.
1 Colmore Square Lines are open from 8.00a.
m. Monday to Friday Birmingham excluding UK bank holidays.
B4 6HQ Shareholders can also access details of their holding and other Bankers information on the registrars website, www.
Barclays Bank plc Ashton House The registrars provide an online share dealing service for those who 497 Silbury Boulevard are not seeking advice on buying or selling, available at Milton Keynes www.
MK9 2LD The registrars also offer a range of other dealing and investment services, which are explained on their website, www.
Be a ScamSmart investor and spot the warning signs Investment and pension scams are often sophisticated and Check the FCA Warning List difficult to spot.
Use the FCA Warning List to check the risks of a potential investment you can also search to see if the firm is known to Fraudsters will often: be operating without our authorisation.
contact you out of the blue: Get impartial advice apply pressure to invest quickly: Get impartial advice before investing do not use an adviser downplay the risks to your money: from the firm that contacted you.
promise tempting returns that sound too good to be true: and If you are suspicious, report it say that they are only making the offer available to you or even You can report the firm or scam to us by contacting our ask you to not tell anyone else about it.
consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768 or using our reporting form How to avoid investment and pension scams using the link below.
Reject unexpected offers If you have lost money in a scam, contact Action Fraud on Scammers usually cold call, but contact can also come by 0300 123 2040 or www.
email, post, word of mouth or at a seminar.
If you have been offered an investment out of the blue, chances are it is a Be ScamSmart and visit highrisk investment or a scam.
uk scamsmart The Groups commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report which has been printed on Arcoprint which is made from an FSC certified and PCF Process Chlorine Free material.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using its environmental printing technology, and vegetable inks were used throughout.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral Company.
Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB
