Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Introduction Audit Audit Nominations Nominations Remuneration Remuneration Responsibility Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee of Directors of Directors Responsibility of Directors Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect Directors declaration in relation to relevant @ @ ofthe Annual Report and the financial statements auditinformation The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Having made appropriate enquiries, each of the Directors who held the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with office at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: applicable law and regulations.
to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and parent relevantaudit information of which the Companys auditors company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that areunaware: and law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements he or she has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably be in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as expected to have taken in order to make himself or herself aware adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU and of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial auditors are aware of that information.
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
In preparing these Group Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with @ of the annual financial report IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of their profit liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company theundertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the development and performance of the business and the position make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation and reliable: taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, isfair, asissued by the IASB: balanced and understandable and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable business model and strategy.
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company This responsibility statement has been approved and is signed by order financial statements: of the Board by: assess the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going Richard Burrows Ben Stevens concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: Chairman Finance Director and 21 February 2018 use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, British American Tobacco p. l. c. orhave no realistic alternative but to do so.
Registered in England and Wales No.
3407696 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report included on the Companys website.
Legislation inthe UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
@ denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part of BATs Annual Report onForm20-F as filed with the SEC.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 99
