FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
Basis of preparation On 25 August 2016, Essentra entered The Directors have prepared plans and The consolidated Financial Statements into a sale and purchase agreement with forecasts for a period of at least 12 have been prepared and approved by the Filtration Group to dispose of the Groups months from the date of signing these Directors in accordance with International entire operations in Porous Technologies.
Based on these, Financial Reporting Standards as adopted The transaction completed in March 2017. and taking into consideration the risks by the European Union EU in accordance The results of the Porous Technologies detailed in note 18, the Directors have a with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 business are presented as results from reasonable expectation that the Company 2002 adopted IFRS and International a discontinued operation in the income has adequate resources to continue in Financial Reporting Standards as issued statement.
The assets and liabilities of operational existence for the foreseeable by the International Accounting Standards Porous Technologies have also been future, and accordingly have adopted Board, and with those parts of the Companies presented as held for sale on the balance the going concern basis in preparing Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting sheet as at 31 December 2016. the consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company has elected to This disclosure has been prepared in prepare its individual company Financial The accounting policies used in the accordance with the Financial Reporting Statements in accordance with Financial preparation of these Financial Statements Councils UK Corporate Governance Code.
Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure are detailed below.
These policies have been Framework FRS 101 : these are presented consistently applied to all periods presented.
Changes in accounting policies on pages 170 to 181.
In the current financial year, Essentra Information regarding the financial adopted the following pronouncements: The Financial Statements are prepared position of the Group, its cash flows, under the historical cost convention except liquidity position, and borrowing facilities Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition for derivatives which are stated at fair are described in the Financial Review on of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised value and retirement benefit obligations pages 22 to 23.
In addition, note 18 Losses: these amendments clarify how which are valued in accordance with to the Financial Statements includes the to account for deferred tax assets IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Groups objectives, policies and processes related to debt instruments measured for managing its capital, its financial at fair value.
The preparation of Financial Statements risk management objectives, details of Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure that conform with adopted IFRS requires its financial instruments and hedging Initiative require disclosure of information the use of estimates and assumptions activities and exposures to credit, market about changes in liabilities arising from that affect the reported amounts of and liquidity risk.
Cash balances and financing activities, including cash flows assets and liabilities at the date of the borrowings are detailed in note 21. and non-cash changes.
As Essentra Financial Statements and the reported provides disclosure on reconciliation of amounts of income and expense during Essentra is primarily funded by a series individual elements of net debt, these the reporting period.
Although these of US Private Placement Loan notes from amendments did not have a significant estimates are based on managements various financial institutions.
best knowledge of the amount, event or Loan note which was repaid in April 2017 actions, actual results may ultimately was refinanced in November 2017 The adoption of these amendments did not differ from those estimates.
with three new Loan notes totalling $75m.
have an impact on the Group in relation to A Revolving Credit Facility of 375m was measurement, recognition and presentation.
For the purposes of these Financial made available upon completion of the Other than these, the accounting policies Statements Essentra or the Group November 2017 Loan note issuance.
and presentation in this set of Financial means Essentra plc the Company At 31 December 2017 available bank Statements are consistent with those and its subsidiaries.
applied in the prior years.
The US Private Placement notes have The estimates and underlying assumptions original maturities ranging from seven The following standards or interpretations are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions and 12 years and the Revolving Credit have not yet been adopted by the Group.
to accounting estimates are recognised in Facility matures in November 2022. the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods if relevant.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES a.
Basis of preparation continued Filter Products IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts Within the Filter Products division, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments introduces with Customers Essentra primarily manufactures new requirements for classification IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with customer specific products for the and measurement, impairment and Customers establishes a new five-step tobacco industry.
There is no significant hedge accounting and replaces IAS 39 model that will apply to revenue arising impact on the recognition of revenue Financial Instruments: Recognition and from contracts with customers, and on these products.
Measurement and all previous versions provides a more structured approach to of IFRS 9.
The amendment to IFRS 9 measurement and recognition of revenue.
The following areas were specifically is effective from 1 January 2018 and will be The review of the impact of IFRS 15 requires considered by the Group: adopted by the Group in the accounting an assessment of each revenue stream year beginning 1 January 2018. and review of contracts and or supply Revenue will continue to be recognised agreements in place with our customers net of any trade discount or rebate Based on an analysis of the Groups in order to establish and confirm the full schemes and any anticipated warranty financial assets and financial liabilities impact of adopting this standard.
liabilities, there is no material change as at 31 December 2017 and on the basis under the new standard to the of facts and circumstances that exist at Based on the review and assessment calculation of liabilities arising from that date, the Directors of the Company undertaken, management conclude that rebate schemes or product warranties.
have assessed the impact of IFRS 9 to the new standard will not have a material the Groups consolidated Financial In a small number of instances, Essentra impact on revenue recognition for the Group, Statements as follows: provides services to the customers in given the nature of products and services addition to the supply of goods.
Where offered by the Group.
Classification and measurement: IFRS previously revenue was only recognised 9 contains three principal classification on the supply of goods under IFRS 15, an Information on the nature of revenue categories for financial assets which are element of revenue will be attributed to recognition within each division is outlined amortised cost, fair value through other the additional services provided where below, with key areas highlighted where comprehensive income FVOCI and fair these are distinct from the goods being the adoption of IFRS 15 will have an value through profit or loss FVTPL.
The total value of revenue impact on the current accounting policies.
standard eliminates the existing IAS 39 attributable to such services is not Further information about these individual categories of held-to-maturity, loans significant.
divisions can be found on pages 4 to 5 and receivables and available-for-sale Essentra at a Glance.
The incremental costs of obtaining a financial assets.
contract will be recognised as an asset Component Solutions if the Group expect to recover those At 31 December 2017, the Group has Within our Component Solutions costs.
These costs were not significant no financial assets designated as division, we supply over 90,000 in the past, and are not expected to held-to-maturity or available-for-sale.
customers across the globe with more be significant.
The Group has 251.1m of loans and than 30,000 products.
The majority receivables which have been reviewed Where a customer has committed to of sales are for the supply of standard against the requirements of IFRS 9 and will purchase goods in advance of production, Essentra parts available from stock continue to be disclosed as amortised cost revenue may be recognised on production that are sold on standard terms.
items following the implementation of IFRS rather than on transfer of control to the 9.
Based on its assessment, the Group Health & Personal Care Packaging customer.
Such arrangements are rare and does not believe that the new classification In the Health & Personal Care Packaging insignificant to the total Group revenue.
requirements will lead to a change in division, Essentra generally manufactures The individual and aggregate impact of accounting treatment.
There is no the above is not material to the Group.
significant impact on the recognition of revenue on these products.
122 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
Basis of preparation continued Consistent with the Groups current hedge Narrow-scope amendments to IFRS 2 Impairment Financial assets were accounting policy, the Directors do not Share-based Payment Classification and assessed for impairment using the IAS 39 intend to exclude the forward element Measurement of Share-based Payment incurred loss model as at 31 December of foreign currency forward contracts Transactions provide guidance on the 2017.
IFRS 9 replaces this with the expected from designated hedging relationships.
accounting for the effects of vesting and credit loss model which requires expected Therefore the Directors conclude that the non-vesting conditions on the credit losses and changes to expected application of the IFRS 9 hedge accounting measurement of cash-settled share-based credit losses at each reporting date to requirements will not have a material payments, share-based payment reflect changes in credit risk since initial impact on the Groups consolidated transactions with a net settlement feature recognition.
Financial assets measured at Financial Statements.
for withholding tax obligations and amortised cost or FVOCI will be subject modification to the terms and conditions to the impairment provisions of IFRS 9.
The Group will take advantage of the of a share-based payment that changes The Group intends to apply the simplified exemption allowing it not to restate the classification of the transaction from model to recognise lifetime expected comparative information for prior periods cash-settled to equity-settled.
credit losses for its trade receivables with respect to classification and and other receivables, including those measurement including impairment IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions due in greater than 12 months, by making changes.
Differences in the carrying and Advance Considerations addresses an accounting policy election.
The amounts of financial assets and financial the exchange rates to be used for advance implementation of the expected credit loss liabilities resulting from the adoption of IFRS consideration paid or received in a model will lead to earlier and increased 9 will therefore be recognised in retained foreign currency.
recognition of credit losses as the Group earnings and reserves as at 1 January 2018. will no longer need to wait until a IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax receivable is past due before recognising a IFRS 16 Leases Treatments addresses how to reflect provision.
Additionally, the recognition of IFRS 16 Leases which is effective from 1 uncertainty in accounting for income losses based on forward-looking estimates January 2019, eliminates the classification taxes, providing guidance on considering reflecting current and forecast conditions of leases as either operating leases or uncertain tax treatments separately or may lead to greater volatility in credit loss finance leases and introduces a single together, examination by tax authorities, provisions.
The quantitative impact of the lessee accounting model under which a the appropriate method to reflect implementation will be disclosed in the lessee is required to recognise assets and uncertainty and accounting for changes 2018 Financial Statements, with a liabilities for all leases with a term of more in facts and circumstances.
reconciliation between the closing IAS 39 than 12 months, unless the underlying and opening IFRS 9 loss provision, and this is asset is of low value, and depreciation of Amendments to IAS 40 Transfer of not assessed to be material.
lease assets separately from interest on Investment Property clarify the accounting lease liabilities in the income statement.
requirements on transfers to or from Hedging the new hedge accounting The Group is currently assessing the investment property.
requirements of IFRS 9 will align hedge impact of IFRS 16. accounting relationships with the Groups Amendments to IAS 19 Plan Amendment, risk management objectives and strategy Other standards and interpretations Curtailment or Settlement specify that in and lead to the application of a more The Group does not currently expect the the event of a plan amendment, qualitative and forward-looking approach adoption of the following standards or curtailment or settlement during a to assessing hedge effectiveness.
interpretations to have a material impact reporting period, an entity is required to The Group uses derivatives to manage on the consolidated results or financial use updated information to determine currency and interest rate risk arising from position of the Group.
current service cost and net interest for underlying business activities.
The Group the period following such an event.
has confirmed that its current hedge relationships will continue to qualify as accounting hedges upon the adoption of IFRS 9.
The types of hedge accounting relationships that the Group currently designates meet the requirements of IFRS 9 and are aligned with the Groups risk management strategy and objective.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES b.
Basis of consolidation c. Foreign currency d. Financial instruments i Subsidiaries Items included in the Financial Statements In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Subsidiaries are entities controlled by of the Groups subsidiaries are measured Instruments: Recognition and Essentra.
Control exists when Essentra is using the currency of the primary economic Measurement IAS 39, interest bearing exposed, or has rights, to variable returns environment in which the subsidiary loans and borrowings and other financial from its involvement with the investee operates functional currency.
The liabilities excluding derivatives are held at and has the ability to affect those returns consolidated Financial Statements are amortised cost, unless they are included in through its power over the investee.
The prepared in sterling functional currency a hedge accounting relationship.
See note Financial Statements of subsidiaries are of the Parent Company.
14 for separate disclosure of hedge types.
included in the Financial Statements from the date that control commences until i Foreign currency transactions Derivatives are measured initially at fair the date that control ceases.
Transactions in foreign currencies are value.
Subsequent measurement in the recorded at the rate of exchange at the Financial Statements depends on the ii Transactions eliminated on date of the transaction.
Monetary assets classification of the derivative as follows: consolidation and liabilities denominated in foreign Intragroup balances and any unrealised currencies at the balance sheet date are i Fair value hedges gains and losses or income and expense translated into sterling at the exchange Where a derivative is used to hedge the arising from intragroup transactions are rate ruling at that date and recognised foreign exchange exposure of a monetary eliminated in preparing the consolidated in the income statement unless hedge asset or liability, any gain or loss on the Financial Statements.
accounting criteria apply see policy derivative is recognised in the income for financial instruments.
ii Financial statements of foreign ii Cash flow hedges operations Where a derivative is designated as a The assets and liabilities of foreign hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge, operations, including goodwill and the change in fair value is recognised in fair value adjustments arising on other comprehensive income to the extent consolidation, are translated into sterling that it is effective and any ineffective at the exchange rate ruling at the balance portion is recognised in the income sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of statement.
Where the underlying foreign operations are translated into transaction results in a financial asset, sterling at average exchange rates.
accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the iii Net investment in foreign operations same period as the hedged item affects Exchange differences on retranslation at profit or loss.
Where the hedged item results the closing rate of the opening balances in a non-financial asset the accumulated of overseas entities are taken to other gains and losses previously recognised in comprehensive income, as are exchange other comprehensive income are included differences arising on related foreign in the initial carrying value of the asset.
currency borrowings and derivatives designated as net investment hedges, to iii Hedges of net investment in the extent that they are effective.
Other foreign operations exchange differences are taken to the The gain or loss on an instrument used income statement.
Differences arising to hedge a net investment in a foreign prior to 1 January 2004 are included in operation that is deemed effective is retained earnings.
recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
124 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM e. Property, plant and equipment f. Leases iii Other intangible assets Property, plant and equipment are stated Rentals associated with operating leases An intangible asset acquired in a business at cost less accumulated depreciation are expensed to the income statement on combination is recognised at fair value to and impairment losses.
Previously revalued a straight line basis.
Lease incentives are the extent it is probable that the expected properties were treated as being held amortised in the income statement over future economic benefits attributable at deemed cost upon transition to the life of the lease.
to the asset will flow to the Group and adopted IFRS.
that its cost can be measured reliably.
g. Intangible assets Intangible assets principally relate to Where parts of an item of property, plant i Goodwill customer relationships, which are valued and equipment or other assets have Goodwill is stated at cost less any using discounted cash flows based on different useful lives, they are accounted impairment losses.
historical customer attrition rates, and for as separate items.
The carrying values developed technology, which is valued of property, plant and equipment and Acquisitions are accounted for using the using an income approach.
The cost of other assets are periodically reviewed for purchase method.
For acquisitions that intangible assets is amortised through the impairment when events or changes in have occurred since 1 January 2004 goodwill income statement on a straight line basis circumstances indicate that the carrying represents the difference between the fair over their estimated useful economic life.
values may not be recoverable.
value of the assets given in consideration Other intangible assets which are not and the fair value of identifiable assets, acquired through a business combination Property, plant and equipment are liabilities and contingent liabilities of the non-acquired intangible assets are depreciated over their estimated acquiree.
For acquisitions made before 1 recognised at cost to the extent it is remaining useful lives on a straight line January 2004, goodwill is included on the probable that the expected future economic basis at the following annual rates: basis of its deemed cost, which represents the benefits attributable to the asset will flow amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
to the Group and that its cost can be Freehold land Not depreciated measured reliably, and amortised on Since 1 January 2010, the Group has a straight line basis over their estimated 2% or life of lease Buildings if shorter expensed costs attributable to acquisitions useful economic life.
Plant and machinery 7 - 20% in the income statement.
Given their one-off nature, these costs are generally presented Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 - 33% within exceptional operating items.
ii Research and development The assets useful lives and residual values Research costs are expensed to the are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, income statement in the year in which at each balance sheet date.
Development costs relating to new products are capitalised when the Group is able to demonstrate the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale, its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset, how the asset will generate future economic benefits, the availability of resources to complete the asset and the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES h. Impairment m. Trade and other payables Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset All assets are reviewed annually to Trade payables are non-interest bearing when there is a legally enforceable right to determine whether there is any indication and are recognised initially at fair value and set off current tax assets against liabilities of impairment.
and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the An impairment loss is recognised whenever n. Catalogue costs Group intends to settle its current tax the carrying amount of a non-financial The costs associated with the production assets and liabilities on a net basis.
asset or the cash generating unit to which and printing of catalogues are expensed it belongs exceeds its recoverable amount, to the income statement when access is p. Revenue being the greater of value in use and fair received to those goods.
Revenue from the sale of goods is value less costs to sell, and is recognised recognised in the income statement net in the income statement.
Income tax of expected returns when the significant estimated based on future cash flows Income tax in the income statement risks and rewards of ownership have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate comprises current and deferred tax.
Income transferred to the customer.
Revenue is based upon the Groups weighted average tax is recognised in the income statement measured at the fair value cost of capital.
except to the extent that it relates to items of consideration receivable.
recognised in equity or other comprehensive i.
A significant proportion of the Groups Inventories are valued at the lower of businesses sell goods on an ex-works basis, cost on a first in, first out basis and Current tax is the expected tax payable on where the Group as a seller makes its goods net realisable value.
For work-in-progress the taxable income for the year using the ready for collection at its premises on an and finished goods, cost includes an applicable tax rates enacted or substantively agreed upon sales date and the buyer incurs appropriate proportion of labour cost enacted at the balance sheet date and any all transportation and handling costs and and overheads.
adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
bears the risks for bringing the goods to their chosen destination.
Cash and cash equivalents Deferred tax is provided, using the balance operates non ex-works terms with customers Cash and cash equivalents comprise sheet liability method, on temporary in some of its businesses, and in these cash balances and fixed term investments differences arising between the tax bases businesses, revenue is recognised when the whose maturities are three months or and the carrying amounts of assets and significant risks and rewards of ownership less from the date of acquisition.
Bank liabilities in the Financial Statements.
The have been transferred to the customer.
overdrafts repayable on demand form following temporary differences are not These terms include some consignment an integral part of Essentras cash provided for: goodwill not deductible for stock agreements, where revenue is management and are included as part tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets recognised when the customer removes of cash and cash equivalents in the or liabilities that affect neither accounting the goods from consignment stock.
nor taxable profit or loss, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to q.
Finance income and expense k. Loans and borrowings the extent that they will not reverse in the Finance income and expense is recognised Loans and borrowings are initially measured foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is determined in the income statement as it accrues.
at cost which is equal to fair value at using tax rates that are expected to apply inception and are subsequently measured when the related deferred tax asset or r. Segment reporting at amortised cost using the effective interest liability is settled, using the applicable tax A segment is identified on the basis of method.
Any difference between the rates enacted or substantively enacted at internal reports that are regularly reviewed proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the the balance sheet dates.
by the Group Management Committee in settlement or redemption of borrowings is order to allocate resources to the segment recognised in the income statement over A deferred tax asset is recognised only to and assess its performance.
the term of the borrowings.
the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against l. Trade and other receivables which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred Trade receivables are initially recognised tax assets are reduced to the extent that at fair value and subsequently measured it is no longer probable that the related at amortised cost, which is generally tax benefit will be realised.
equivalent to recognition at nominal value less impairment loss.
126 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM s. Pensions t. Share-based payments ii Acquisition integration i Defined contribution schemes Essentra operates equity-settled, and restructuring costs Obligations for contributions to defined share-based incentive plans.
A charge is Costs relating to the integration of contribution pension schemes are made in the income statement based acquired businesses and restructuring expensed to the income statement on the fair value of option awards using associated with acquisitions.
the Monte Carlo or binomial valuation models and relevant quoted share price iii Other exceptional items ii Defined benefit schemes information with a corresponding increase In 2017, this represented costs arising from The significant pension schemes in in equity.
The fair value is measured at the closure of the folded cartons facilities Europe and the US have been accounted grant date and spread over the period at Newport and amounts in respect of the for on a defined benefit basis.
between grant date and vesting date of strategic review undertaken during the the options.
The amount recognised as an period associated reorganisation costs, The net obligations in respect of defined expense will be adjusted to reflect the and an adjustment on contingent deferred benefit pension schemes are calculated actual number of share options that vest considerations on a prior acquisition.
separately for each scheme by estimating with the exception of options that fail to vest the amount of future benefit that because market conditions are not met.
In 2016, this represented impairment loss employees have earned in return for their on certain assets of the Health & Personal service in the current and prior periods: u.
Exceptional items in the Care Packaging Strategic Business Unit, that benefit is discounted to determine consolidated income statement further costs arising from the closure of its present value, and the fair value of any The exceptional operating items below are the Filter Products site in Jarrow, offset by scheme assets is deducted.
The discount separated from other items by virtue of the net release of property provisions on rate is the yield at the balance sheet date their size and incidence considered for disposal of properties, and an adjustment on AA credit-rated bonds that have each operating segment.
They are shown on contingent deferred considerations maturity dates approximating to the terms as a separate line item within operating on a prior acquisition.
The calculation profit on the face of the income statement is performed by a qualified independent in order for the reader to obtain a clearer v. Investment in own shares actuary using the projected unit credit understanding of the results from the The shares held in the Essentra Employee method.
Net interest on defined benefit ongoing operations.
These items exclude Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling assets is presented within finance income, amortisation of acquired intangible assets obligations in respect of share option and net interest on defined benefit liabilities which are also presented separately in the plans are treated as belonging to the is presented within finance expense.
Company and are deducted from its retained earnings.
The cost of shares Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen i Transaction costs relating held directly treasury shares are also are recognised in full in the consolidated to acquisitions and disposals deducted from retained earnings.
of businesses In 2017 and 2016, Essentra incurred one-off w. Provisions The amounts charged to operating profit costs such as professional fees as a result A provision is recognised when there is a are the current service cost, past service of acquisitions including transactions that probable legal or constructive obligation cost including curtailments and gains did not complete in 2016 refer to note 23. as a result of a past event and a reliable and losses on settlement.
In addition, costs incurred in 2017 and 2016 estimate can be made of the outflow of in relation to the disposal of Porous resources that will be required to settle the The value of a net pension asset is limited Technologies which are presented as obligation.
The outflow is the present value to the amount that may be recovered discontinued operations are also included of managements best estimate of the either through reduced contributions or in this category within discontinued expenditure required to settle the present agreed refunds from the scheme.
operations refer to note 23. obligation at the balance sheet date.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES x.
Assets and disposal groups held Government grants are recognised for sale and discontinued operations when it is reasonable to expect that Non-current assets, or disposal groups the grants will be received and that all comprising assets and liabilities, are related conditions will be met, usually on classified as held-for-sale if it is highly submission of a valid claim for payment.
probable that they will be recovered Government grants in respect of capital primarily through sale rather than through expenditure are included within the carrying continuing use.
Such assets, or disposal amount of the related property, plant and groups, are generally measured at the equipment, and are released to profit or lower of their carrying amount and fair loss on a straight-line basis over the expected value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses useful lives of the relevant assets.
Grants on initial classification as held-for-sale of a revenue nature are credited to and subsequent gains and losses on profit or loss so as to match them with remeasurement are recognised in profit the expenditure to which they relate.
Net debt A disposal group qualifies as discontinued Net debt is defined as cash and cash operation if it is a component of an entity equivalents, net of interest bearing that either has been disposed of, or is loans and borrowings.
classified as held for sale, and: z.
Dividends Represents a separate major line Dividends are recognised as a liability in of business or geographical area the period in which they are approved by of operations: the shareholders of the Company final Is part of a single co-ordinated plan dividend or paid interim dividend.
to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or Is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as a single amount as profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations in the income statement.
