Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Group Financial statements Accounting Policies of the Group 95 Consolidated Income Statement Basis of preparation The full impact of adopting IFRS 9 on the Consolidated Financial 96 Consolidated Statement The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Statements of the Group will depend on the financial instruments of Comprehensive International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use that the Group has during 2018 as well as on economic conditions Income in the European Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of and judgements made as at the year end.
The Group has performed 97 Consolidated Balance the EU International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation and the a preliminary assessment of the potential impact of adopting IFRS Sheet Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
9 based on the financial instruments and hedging relationships 98 Consolidated Cash Flow as at the date of initial application of IFRS 9 1 January 2018.
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical Statement Managements expectations are that the impact of IFRS 9 on the cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain financial Group will not be material.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out of Changes in Equity below.
These policies have been consistently applied with the prior IFRS 15 100 Accounting Policies of year except where noted.
IFRS 15 addresses the recognition of revenue from customer theGroup contracts and impacts on the amounts and timing of the recognition New financial reporting requirements 107 Notes to the of such revenue.
IFRS 15 will supersede the current revenue Consolidated Financial A number of EU-endorsed amendments to existing standards and recognition guidance including IAS 18 Revenue.
The Group will adopt Statements interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning on or after IFRS 15 for the year ending 31 December 2018.
1 January 2017 and have been applied in preparing the Consolidated 155 Company Balance Sheet Financial Statements of the Group.
There is no impact on the Group The standard introduces a five-step approach to revenue 156 Company Statement of Consolidated Financial Statements from applying these standards.
recognition identifying the contract: identifying the performance Changes in Equity obligations in the contract: determining the transaction price: Financial reporting standards applicable for future 157 Accounting Policies of allocating that transaction price to the performance obligations and theCompany financial periods finally recognising the revenue as those performance obligations A number of EU-endorsed standards and amendments to existing 159 Notes to the Company are satisfied.
standards and interpretations, are effective for future annual Financial Statements periods and have not been applied in preparing the Consolidated The Group recognises revenue from the following major 166 Subsidiaries and Related Financial Statements of the Group.
income streams: Undertakings The most significant changes to the IFRS framework in these 173 Five Year Summary Flight Support: forthcoming standards and amendments to standards are IFRS 9: Fuelling & fuel farm management 174 Alternative Performance Financial Instruments IFRS 9, IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts Property management Measures with customers IFRS 15 and IFRS 16: Leases IFRS 16.
Ground handling 179 Shareholder Information Technical services IFRS 9 The Group will apply IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 addresses Aftermarket Services: the classification, measurement and recognition of financials assets Repair & overhaul and financials liabilities, impairment and hedge accounting.
Engine & part sales Classification and measurement: The number of categories of An impact assessment has been performed on the likely impact of financial assets under IFRS 9 has been reduced compared to IAS 39.
IFRS 15: The classification is based on the business model within which the Within the Aftermarket Services division the methodology presently asset is held and the contractual cash flow characteristics of adopted for revenue recognition under the current standard, IAS 18 the assets.
Revenue, will not materially change under IFRS 15.
For financial assets that are debt instruments the classification Within the Flight Support division it is also not expected that IFRS categories are amortised cost: fair value through other 15 will have a material impact due to the nature of the services comprehensive income FVTOCI and fair value through profit or provided the cycle from order through to delivery of these services loss FVTPL.
Equity investments that fall within the scope of the is generally short.
standard are usually measured at FVTPL unless an irrevocable election is made to recognise them within other comprehensive The full impact of adopting IFRS 15 on the Consolidated Financial income.
On the transition the Group has elected to recognise Statements of the Group will depend on the Groups activities during future changes in the fair value of the equity investment in Fly Victor 2018.
The Group has performed a preliminary assessment of the Limited and Lider Taxi Aero S. A.
Air Brasil which are classified as potential impact of adopting IFRS 15 based on the Groups historic financial instruments within other comprehensive income.
trading as at the date of initial application of IFRS 15 1 January 2018.
Managements expectations are that the impact of IFRS 15 on the Impairment: The impairment model under IFRS 9 reflects expected Group will not be material.
credit losses, as opposed to only incurred credit losses under IAS 39.
IFRS 16 Hedge accounting: On initial application of the standard, an entity IFRS 16 replaces existing leasing guidance, including IAS 17 Leases may choose, as its accounting policy, to continue to apply the hedge and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
accounting requirements of IAS 39 instead of the hedge accounting The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after requirements of IFRS 9.
The Group will adopt the hedge accounting 1 January 2019. requirements of IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018.
100 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Group Accounting Policies of the Group The standard requires lessees to account for most contracts under has the power over the investee: an on-balance sheet model, with the distinction between operating is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement and finance leases being removed.
with the investee: and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The standard provides certain exemptions from recognising leases on the balance sheet, including where the asset is of low value or The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if the lease term is 12 months or less.
In addition, the standard makes facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or changes to the definition of a lease to focus on, amongst other more of the three elements of control listed above.
things, which party has the right to direct the use of the asset.
All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and nder the new standard, the Group will be required to recognise right U cash flows relating to transactions between the members of the of use lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
The right Group are eliminated on consolidation.
of use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured In the current year the Group reclassified its investment in GB at cost subject to certain exceptions less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for any re-measurement of the Aviation Holdings LLC as a joint venture.
The reclassification resulted in a $28.4 million reclassification from the investment in associates lease liability.
Liabilities are measured based on the present value of future lease payments over the lease term.
Subsequently, the lease to the investment in joint ventures.
liability is adjusted for interest and lease payments, as well as the Goodwill on acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of the impact of lease modifications, amongst others.
consideration paid, the non-controlling interest, and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of The recognition of the depreciation of right of use lease assets and the identifiable net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
interest on lease liabilities over the lease term will have no overall Where goodwill can only be determined on a provisional basis for a impact on profit before tax over the life of the lease, however financial year, adjustments may be made to this balance for up to the result in any individual year will be impacted and the change 12 months from the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is capitalised and in presentation of costs will likely be material to the Groups key presented as part of intangible assets in the Consolidated Balance metrics.
Under IAS 17, the charge is booked in full to operating profit.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment Metrics which will therefore be affected will include operating profit losses and is tested for impairment on an annual basis.
& operating margin, interest & interest cover, EBITDA, ROIC and operating cash flow.
Associated undertakings are those investments other than subsidiary undertakings where the Group is in a position to exercise Furthermore, the principal amount of cash paid and interest in the a significant influence, typically through participation in the financial cash flow statement will be presented separately as a financing and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Operating lease payments under IAS 17 would have been associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting presented as operating cash flows.
There will be no overall net cash and are initially recognised at cost.
The Consolidated Financial flow impact.
Statements include the Groups share of the post-acquisition The Group has commenced work to understand the impact of the reserves of all such companies less provision for impairment.
new standard and the project will complete during 2018.
Work will Going concern include detailed review of contracts to establish lease classification, The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, assessment of transition options, the quantification of financial a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have impacts, design of future processes and the related systems adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the changes, the assessment of the related impacts on the Groups foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern regulatory and commercial reporting requirements and the impact basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further on the Groups long-term incentive schemes.
It is therefore not detail is contained in the directors statement of going concern on practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the financial effect page 85 of the Directors Report.
until the directors complete their review.
Business combinations Information on the undiscounted amount of the Groups operating On the acquisition of a business, fair values reflecting conditions at lease commitments under IAS 17 Leases, the current leasing the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable separable standard, is disclosed in note 15. assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Where the fair Basis of consolidation value of the total consideration, both paid and deferred, is different The Group financial statements incorporate the financial to the fair value of the identifiable separable assets, liabilities and statements of the Company, BBA Aviation plc, and its subsidiary contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as purchased undertakings under the acquisition method of accounting.
goodwill and capitalised or a bargain purchase gain and recognised in the income statement.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial the income statement as incurred.
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by achieved when the Company: the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the 101 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Group Financial statements Accounting Policies of the Group continued 95 Consolidated Income Statement accounting is incomplete.
These provisional amounts are adjusted at the average exchange rate for the year.
The balance sheets of 96 Consolidated Statement during the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities are these operations, including associated goodwill, are translated into of Comprehensive recognised, to reflect new information obtained about the facts and US dollars at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, All exchange differences arising on consolidation are recognised 97 Consolidated Balance would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
initially in other comprehensive income and only in the Income Sheet Statement in the period in which the entity is eventually disposed of.
When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business 98 Consolidated Cash Flow combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent All other translation differences are taken to the Income Statement, Statement consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowing 99 Consolidated Statement measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of and derivative instruments to the extent that they are used to of Changes in Equity the consideration transferred in a business combination.
Changes provide a hedge against the Groups equity investments in overseas 100 Accounting Policies of in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as operations.
These translation differences are recognised in other theGroup measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with comprehensive income, together with the exchange difference on 107 Notes to the corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period the net investment in those operations.
Consolidated Financial adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information Statements Goodwill and intangible assets arising on the acquisition of a foreign obtained during the measurement period which cannot exceed entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 155 Company Balance Sheet one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances translated at the closing rate of exchange.
that existed at the acquisition date.
156 Company Statement of Changes in Equity Revenue recognition When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received 157 Accounting Policies of previously-held interests in the acquired entity is re-measured to theCompany or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for goods supplied the acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, and services provided by the Group excluding inter-company 159 Notes to the Company is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in transactions, sales by associated undertakings and sales taxes.
Financial Statements the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit 166 Subsidiaries and Related Within the Engine Repair & Overhaul business, revenue and Undertakings or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest associated profit on engine overhauls are recognised on a were disposed of.
173 Five Year Summary percentage of completion basis once the terms of the contract have been agreed with the customer and the ultimate profitability The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the 174 Alternative Performance of the contract can be determined with reasonable certainty.
The Measures contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement percentage of completion is based on hours incurred compared period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration 179 Shareholder Information with managements best estimate of the total hours of production.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity Within the Engine Repair & Overhaul business, revenue and is not re-measured at subsequent reporting dates and its associated profit are recognised on engine sales.
Where the engine subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent sold is subsequently leased back, the revenue and profit are only consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is re-measured recognised where the lease can be categorised as an operating lease.
at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, or IAS 37 Provisions, Operating profit Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with Operating profit is stated after charging exceptional and other items the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
and after the share of results of associates and joint ventures but before investment income and finance costs.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the Exceptional items are items which are material and non-recurring entitys functional currency at the rate of exchange at the date in nature, and include costs relating to acquisitions, disposals and of the transaction.
Other items include the amortisation of acquired intangibles accounted for under IFRS 3.
The individual financial statements of each group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in Underlying operating profit is the Groups key alternative which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the performance measure and is consistent with the way that financial Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial position performance is measured by management and reported to the Board of each group company are expressed in US dollars, the presentation and the Executive Committee, and assists in providing a meaningful currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The functional analysis of the trading results of the Group.
Additionally, exclusion currency of the parent company is sterling.
of amortisation of acquired intangibles accounted for under IFRS 3 from the Groups underlying results assists with the comparability Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at of the Groups underlying profitability with peer companies.
the balance sheet date are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss Underlying operating profit is calculated as operating profit before arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of exceptional and other items see note 2.
Further detail on the transaction is recognised in the Income Statement.
rationale for the use of alternative performance measures and reconciliations to the equivalent GAAP measures are set out on The income statements of operations of which the functional pages 174-178. currency is other than the US dollar are translated into US dollars 102 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Group Intangible assets recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset Licences and contracts, other than manufacturing licences within belongs.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever the Ontic business, that are acquired separately are stated at cost there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Amortisation is The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell provided for on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash The Ontic business acquires licences from Original Equipment flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount Manufacturers OEMs to become the alternate OEM for that rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of product.
The useful life is based on the underlying contract where money.
The risks specific to the asset are reflected as an adjustment that is a determinable period.
Where the useful life is indeterminable to the future estimated cash flows.
and finite, a lifespan of 20 years is typically used.
An annual review is performed to assess the licences remaining useful life against the If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is vitality of the underlying platform.
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Amortisation is Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying provided on the cost of software and is calculated on a straight-line amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to basis over the useful life of the software.
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount Intangible assets, other than goodwill, arising on acquisitions are that would have been determined had no impairment loss been capitalised at fair value.
An intangible asset will be recognised as long recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill provided on the fair value of the asset and is calculated on a straightare not reversed in subsequent periods.
line basis over its useful life, which typically is the term of the licence or contract.
Inventories Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost Property, plant and equipment comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate proportion Property, plant and equipment is stated in the Balance Sheet at of labour and overheads in the case of work in progress and finished cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Cost is calculated using the first-in first-out method in the Depreciation is provided on the cost of property, plant and equipment Flight Support segment, and weighted average method in the less estimated residual value and is calculated on a straight-line basis Aftermarket Services segment.
Provision is made for slow-moving over the following estimated useful lives of the assets: or obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Land Not depreciated Associates and Joint Ventures Freehold buildings 40 years maximum Where the Group has the power to participate in but not control Leasehold buildings Shorter of useful life or lease term the financial and operating policy decisions of another entity, it Fixtures and equipment including is classified as an associate or joint venture.
Associates and joint essential commissioning costs 3-20 years ventures are initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost.
Subsequently associates and joint ventures are accounted Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised for using the equity method, where the Groups share of postwithin fixtures and equipment.
acquisition profits and losses and other comprehensive income is recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss and Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of other comprehensive income except for losses in excess major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the Groups investment in the associate or joint venture unless of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins when there is an obligation to make good those losses.
both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being incurred and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are in Profits and losses arising on transactions between the Group and progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities its associates and joint ventures are recognised only to the extent of that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are complete.
unrelated investors interests in the associate or joint venture.
The investors share in the associates or joint ventures profits and losses Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant resulting from these transactions is eliminated against the carrying and equipment value of the associate or joint venture.
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying Any premium paid for an associate or joint venture above the fair value of its goodwill, intangible and tangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is capitalised and included in the an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of carrying amount of the associate or joint venture.
Where there is objective evidence that the investment in an associate or joint the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the 103 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Group Financial statements Accounting Policies of the Group continued 95 Consolidated Income Statement venture has been impaired the carrying amount of the investment is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of 96 Consolidated Statement tested for impairment in the same way as other non-financial assets.
the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
of Comprehensive Income Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Borrowings Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair 97 Consolidated Balance Sheet interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
All such value, which equates to proceeds less direct issue costs at inception.
instruments are used for hedging purposes to manage the risk Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are measured at 98 Consolidated Cash Flow profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except Statement Groups risk management policies.
Recognition of gains or losses where they are identified as a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
99 Consolidated Statement on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument is Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, of Changes in Equity designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed and the amount due on settlement is recognised in the Income 100 Accounting Policies of to hedge.
Statement over the term of the borrowings.
theGroup The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges Trade and other payables 107 Notes to the Consolidated Financial is recognised in other comprehensive income until the impact Trade payables, excluding derivative liabilities, are not interest Statements from the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement.
bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised 155 Company Balance Sheet Equity instruments immediately within other gains and losses in the Income Statement.
156 Company Statement of Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the Changes in Equity Hedges of net investments in non-US dollar territories are proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the 157 Accounting Policies of Available for sale financial assets theCompany hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge Available for sale AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss 159 Notes to the Company are either designated as AFS or are not classified as a loans and relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately, and Financial Statements receivables, b held-to-maturity investments or c financial assets is included within operating profit.
Gains and losses deferred in the 166 Subsidiaries and Related at fair value through profit or loss.
foreign currency translation reserve are recognised in profit or loss Undertakings on disposal of the foreign operation.
The Group holds investments in unlisted shares that are not traded 173 Five Year Summary in an active market but that are classified as AFS financial assets Changes in the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts which 174 Alternative Performance and stated at fair value because the directors consider that fair do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised within operating Measures value can be reliably measured.
Gains and losses arising from profit in the Income Statement as they arise.
changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income 179 Shareholder Information Fair value hedges are undertaken as part of the Groups policy for and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve with the managing interest rate risk.
Changes in value of fair value hedges are exception of impairment losses.
Where the investment is disposed immediately recognised within interest in the Income Statement and of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss are off-set by changes in fair value of the underlying borrowing.
Any previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is ineffectiveness on fair value hedges is recognised immediately in the reclassified to profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets Other financial instruments Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are accounted for at occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the the trade date.
estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
Cash and cash equivalents Leases Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deemed Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments with transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the original maturities of three months or less which are readily lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised within property, insignificant risk of changes in value.
plant and equipment and the capitalisation values written off on a Trade and other receivables straight-line basis over the shorter of the period of the lease or the Trade and other receivables excluding derivative assets are initially useful economic life of the asset.
Obligations to the lessors relating recognised at fair value and do not carry any interest and are stated to finance leases, net of finance charges, in respect of future periods at nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated are recorded as liabilities.
The interest element of the obligation is irrecoverable amounts.
allocated over the lease term to produce a constant rate of interest on the outstanding capital payments.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are initially recognised Operating leases are not recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet.
at fair value and classified according to the substance of the The rental payments are charged to the Income Statement on a contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Following a review of 104 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Group certain leases during the year, the prior year comparatives have been Post-retirement benefits restated to remain consistent with the current year presentation.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost is constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable determined using the projected unit credit method, with valuations that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle that under IAS 19 revised being carried out annually as at 31 December.
obligation and the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside of profit or loss and The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the during the year is charged to operating profit in the year.
Any cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that amount is determined by discounting the expected future cash the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a flows at an appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The interest cost on the net defined benefit deficit is When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a included within finance costs.
provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet reimbursement will be received on settlement of a related provision represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation Insurance is only recognised to the extent that it is recoverable.
Provisions are recognised for self-insured risks as the cover is provided.
The provisions cover both known claims and claims Defined benefit scheme contributions are determined by valuations incurred but not reported.
Provisions are made for the associated undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
costs based on an assessment of the specific risk or expected Share-based payments claims development for risks that are incurred but not reported.
The The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled shareestimates of current and ultimate risk exposure are made with the based compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation aid of an actuary or other suitably qualified third party.
is recognised in the Income Statement as an expense.
The total Restructuring amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the award.
These include BlackScholes calculations and Monte Carlo restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing simulations.
For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a is revisited at each balance sheet date.
For both cash and equityrestructuring provision includes only the direct expenditure arising settled options, the Group revises its estimates of the number of from the restructuring, and comprises those amounts that are both options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with sheet date.
the ongoing activities of the entity.
Taxation Warranties The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and Warranties provisions are recognised when the associated products comprises current and deferred taxation.
Current tax is calculated or services are sold.
Provisions are made for the associated costs at tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted as based on an assessment of future claims made with reference to at the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation takes into account taxation deferred due to Environmental temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for Environmental provisions relate to environmental liabilities taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is accounted for within continuing operations of the Group.
These liabilities relate using the balance sheet liability method and is the tax expected predominantly to the Groups current and historic property to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying portfolios.
The liabilities have an expected life of up to ten years.
amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases in the computation of taxable profit.
An uncertain tax provision is recognised for those matters for which the tax determination is uncertain but it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax authority.
The uncertain tax provisions are reported within current liabilities and measured using the most likely amount approach.
Examples of activities for which the Group experiences tax uncertainties include 105 Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Group Financial statements Accounting Policies of the Group continued 95 Consolidated Income Statement but are not limited to transfer pricing under the application of OECD that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from 96 Consolidated Statement transfer pricing principles and the deductibility of interest payable these estimates.
of Comprehensive resulting from the Groups financing arrangements.
The Group is Income The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an monitoring developments in relation to EU State Aid investigation ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 97 Consolidated Balance including the EU Commissions announcement on 16 November Sheet the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only 2017 that it will conduct a State Aid investigation into the UKs that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 98 Consolidated Cash Flow Controlled Foreign Company regime.
The Group does not currently revision affects both current and future periods.
Statement consider any provision is required in relation to EU State Aid.
99 Consolidated Statement Management has concluded that for 2017 there are no critical The provision for uncertainties is established based on the of Changes in Equity accounting judgements or key sources of estimation uncertainty management judgement of senior tax professionals within the that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the 100 Accounting Policies of Group supported by previous experience in respect of such activities theGroup carrying amounts of assets and liabilities with the next financial year.
and in certain cases based on specialist independent tax advice.
107 Notes to the The methodology for establishing provisions for tax uncertainties Consolidated Financial has been consistently applied with the prior year.
Statements No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted 155 Company Balance Sheet earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates where 156 Company Statement of the Group has control and the reversal of the temporary difference Changes in Equity is not foreseeable.
157 Accounting Policies of theCompany The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 159 Notes to the Company probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all Financial Statements or part of the asset to be recovered.
166 Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings Deferred tax is calculated at tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and that are 173 Five Year Summary expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the 174 Alternative Performance asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Measures Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited 179 Shareholder Information to the Statement of Comprehensive Income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Assets and associated liabilities classified as held for sale Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their net carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year of the date of classification.
When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss of control of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary are classified as held for sale when the criteria described above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a non-controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements other than those involving estimations that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised and to make estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors 106
