Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information @ Notes on the Accounts Taxation 1 Accounting policies Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with Basis of accounting deferred taxation.
Income tax charges, where applicable, are calculated The financial statements of the Parent Company have been prepared on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced sheet date.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS, but liability is settled.
As required under IAS 12 Income Taxes, deferred tax makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Companies Act 2006 and where advantage of certain disclosure exemptions available under FRS 101 have been taken, including those Investments in Group companies relating to: Investments in Group companies are stated at cost, together with subsequent capital contributions, less provisions for any impairment in a cash flow statement and related notes: value, where appropriate.
comparative period reconciliations: Dividends disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries: Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are disclosures in respect of capital management: recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders the effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs: and final dividends or declared interim dividends.
With effect from disclosures in respect of the compensation of key 1 January 2018, the Company will move to four interim quarterly management personnel.
As the consolidated financial statements of the Group include Dividend income is recognised at the same time as the paying equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions company recognises the liability to pay a dividend.
under FRS 101 available in respect of disclosures under IFRS 2 related Repurchase of share capital to group settled share-based payments.
When share capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, The preparation of the financial statements requires the Directors to including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts from equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of purchased for the employee share ownership trusts, are classified as contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
The key treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
estimates and assumptions are set out in the accounting policies below, Related parties together with the related notes to the accounts.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 101 As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the from disclosing transactions with related parties that are wholly owned profit and loss of the Company has not been presented in these subsidiaries of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Group.
Financial instruments The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the Financial guarantees are initially recorded at fair value, and London Stock Exchange and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and subsequently carried at this fair value less accumulated amortisation.
is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
In addition, the Companys shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of Share-based payments American Depository Shares ADSs.
The Company has equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
Foreign currencies Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at The functional currency of the Company is sterling.
Transactions arising the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the in currencies other than sterling are translated at the rate of exchange equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting ruling on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities expressed in period, based on the Groups estimate of awards that will eventually currencies other than sterling are translated at rates of exchange ruling vest.
For plans where vesting conditions are based on total shareholder at the end of the financial year.
All exchange differences are taken to returns, the fair value at date of grant reflects these conditions, whereas the profit and loss account in the year.
earnings per share vesting conditions are reflected in the calculation of awards that will eventually vest over the vesting period.
Revenue Revenue and other income are included in the profit and loss account Fair value is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes option pricing when all contractual or other applicable conditions for recognition model, except where vesting is dependent on market conditions have been met.
Allowances are made for bad and doubtful debts, when the Monte-Carlo option pricing model is used.
The expected life as appropriate.
used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
@ denotes section, including accompanying text and tables, that does not form part of BATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 211
