Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued most of the Engle progeny cases pending in US federal court, 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments after the initial docket of over 4,000 such cases was reduced 1.
The Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements to approximately 400 cases.
The Group believes that the that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
circumstances surrounding these claims are readily distinguishable 2.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, from the current categories of tobacco-related litigation claims damages, fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, involving Group companies.
interest charges, reputational damage or other sanctions.
Although the Group believes that the Groups companies have These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
In cases where the valid bases for appeals of adverse verdicts in their pending cases Group has an obligation as a result of a past event existing at the and valid defences to all actions and intends to defend them balance sheet date, if it is probable that an outflow of economic vigorously, litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and generally, resources will be required to settle the obligation and if the amount it is not possible to predict the outcome of any particular litigation of the obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision will be pending against Group companies, or to reasonably estimate the recognised based on best estimates and management judgement.
amount or range of any possible loss.
There are, however, contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, political, legislative, regulatory and other developments relating taxes in some countries and guarantees for which no provisions to the tobacco industry and cigarette smoking have received wide have been made.
These developments may negatively affect the outcomes of tobacco-related legal actions and encourage the General Litigation Overview commencement of additional similar litigation.
There are a number of legal and regulatory actions, proceedings US Litigation and claims against Group companies related to tobacco products that are pending in a number of jurisdictions.
Group companies, notably R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company include claims for personal injury both individual claims and class RJRT individually and as successor by merger to Lorillard actions and claims for economic loss arising from the treatment of Tobacco Company Lorillard Tobacco and Brown & Williamson smoking and health-related diseases such as medical recoupment Holdings, Inc. formerly Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation claims brought by local governments.
B&W as well as other leading cigarette manufacturers, are defendants in a number of product liability cases.
The plaintiffs in these cases seek recovery on a variety of legal these cases, the amounts of compensatory and punitive damages theories, including negligence, strict liability in tort, design defect, sought are significant.
failure to warn, fraud, misrepresentation, violations of unfair and deceptive trade practices statutes, conspiracy, medical monitoring 11.
On 30 July 2004, B&W completed the combination of the assets, and violations of competition and antitrust laws.
The plaintiffs liabilities and operations of its US tobacco business with RJRT, seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and, where a wholly owned subsidiary of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, available, punitive damages, treble or multiple damages and Inc. the Business Combination.
As part of the Business statutory damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring Combination, B&W contributed to RJRT all of the assets and and smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of profits, attorneys liabilities, including its tobacco-related litigation liabilities, of its US fees, and injunctive and other equitable relief.
cigarette and tobacco business, subject to specified exceptions, in exchange for an approximately 42.2% equity ownership interest 6.
Although alleged damages often are not determinable from a in Reynolds American Inc. RAI, which was formed as a new complaint, and the law governing the pleading and calculation of holding company for these combined businesses.
damages varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, compensatory and punitive damages have been specifically pleaded in a number of 12.
As a result of the Business Combination, RJRT assumed all liabilities cases, sometimes in amounts ranging into the hundreds of millions of B&W except liabilities to the extent relating to businesses and even billions of pounds.
and assets not contributed by B&W to RJRT and other limited categories of liabilities and contributed subsidiaries or otherwise to 7.
With the exception of the Engle progeny cases described below, the extent related to B&Ws tobacco business as conducted in the the Group continues to win the majority of tobacco-related United States on or prior to 30 July 2004.
In addition, RJRT agreed litigation claims that reach trial, and a very high percentage of the to indemnify B&W and each of its affiliates other than RAI and its tobacco-related litigation claims brought against them, including subsidiaries against, among other matters, certain losses including Engle progeny cases, continue to be dismissed at or before trial.
those arising from Environmental Tobacco Smoke ETS claims, Based on their experience in tobacco-related litigation and the liabilities, damages, expenses, judgments and attorneys fees, to strength of the defences available to them in such litigation, the extent relating to or arising from such assumed liabilities or the the Groups companies believe that their successful defence of assets contributed by B&W to RJRT the RJRT Indemnification.
tobacco-related litigation in the past will continue in the future.
The scope of the RJRT Indemnification included certain expenses 8.
Group companies generally do not settle claims.
However, Group and contingent liabilities in connection with litigation to the companies may enter into settlement discussions in some cases, extent relating to or arising from B&Ws US tobacco business as if they believe it is in their best interests to do so.
Exceptions to conducted on or prior to 30 July 2004, including smoking and this general approach include, but are not limited to, actions health tobacco litigation, whether the litigation is commenced taken pursuant to offer of judgment statutes and Filter Cases, before or after 30 July 2004. as defined below.
An offer of judgment, if rejected by the plaintiff, preserves the Groups right to recover attorneys fees 14.
Effective 25 July 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of under certain statutes in the event of a verdict favourable to the the approximately 57.8% of RAI that the Company did not already Group.
Such offers are sometimes made through court-ordered own.
As a result of that acquisition, RJRT has become an indirect, mediations.
Other settlements by Group companies include the wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
Given the completion State Settlement Agreements described below, the funding of this acquisition, the RJRT Indemnification is therefore between by various tobacco companies of a US$5.2 billion trust fund members of the Group, and as such the Group no longer has the contemplated by the Master Settlement Agreement to benefit benefit from an indemnification by an external party.
tobacco growers, the original Broin flight attendant case, and 172 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 15.
Certain terms and phrases used in this note 28 may require their counsel, filed pleadings and memoranda in pending tobaccosome explanation.
related litigation that set forth and discuss a number of grounds and defences that they and their counsel believe have a valid basis a.
Judgment or final judgment refers to the final decision of in law and fact.
the court resolving the dispute and determining the rights and obligations of the parties.
At the trial court level, for example, 20.
Trial schedules are subject to change, and a final judgment generally is entered by the court after a jury many cases are dismissed before trial.
In the US, there are 41 verdict and after post-verdict motions have been decided.
cases, exclusive of Engle progeny cases, scheduled for trial as In most cases, the losing party can appeal a verdict only after a of 31 December 2017 through 31 December 2018, for the final judgment has been entered by the trial court.
Reynolds Defendants: nine individual smoking and health cases, 29 Filter Cases, and three other non-smoking and health cases.
Damages refers to the amount of money sought by a There are also approximately 126 Engle progeny cases against RJRT plaintiff in a complaint, or awarded to a party by a jury or, individually and as successor to Lorillard Tobacco and B&W set in some cases, by a judge.
Compensatory damages are for trial through 31 December 2018.
It is not known how many of awarded to compensate the prevailing party for actual losses these cases will actually be tried.
suffered, if liability is proved.
In cases in which there is a finding that a defendant has acted wilfully, maliciously or fraudulently, 21.
From 1 January 2015 through 31 December 2017, 111 generally based on a higher burden of proof than is required individual smoking and health, Engle progeny, filter and healthfor a finding of liability for compensatory damages, a plaintiff care cost recovery cases in which the Reynolds Defendants were also may be awarded punitive damages.
Although damages defendants were tried, including six trials for cases where mistrials may be awarded at the trial court stage, a losing party may were declared in the original proceedings.
Verdicts in favour of the be protected from paying any damages until all appellate Reynolds Defendants and, in some cases, other defendants, were avenues have been exhausted by posting a supersedeas returned in 29 cases, tried in Florida 27, California 1 and New bond.
The amount of such a bond is governed by the law of Jersey 1.
There were also 22 mistrials in Florida.
Verdicts in favour the relevant jurisdiction and generally is set at the amount of of the plaintiffs were returned in 51 cases tried in Florida.
Six cases damages plus some measure of statutory interest, modified at in Florida were dismissed during trial.
Two cases were continued the discretion of the appropriate court or subject to limits set during trial.
In another case in Florida, the jury entered a partial by a court or statute.
verdict that did not include compensatory or punitive damages, and post-trial motions are pending.
c. Settlement refers to certain types of cases in which cigarette manufacturers, including RJRT, B&W and Lorillard Tobacco, a Medical Reimbursement Cases have agreed to resolve disputes with certain plaintiffs without 22.
These civil actions seek to recover amounts spent by government resolving the cases through trial.
entities and other third party providers on healthcare and welfare costs claimed to result from illnesses associated with smoking.
Prior to the Companys acquisition of the approximately 57.8% of RAI that the Company did not already own, the US Litigation 23.
At 31 December 2017, one US medical reimbursement suit section included significant cases where B&W and or a UK-based Crow Creek Sioux Tribe v American Tobacco Co. was pending Group company is named as a defendant and all cases where against RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and B&W in a Native American RJRT is named as a defendant as a successor to B&W.
Given the tribal court in South Dakota.
The plaintiffs seek to recover actual Companys completion of its acquisition of RAI, the US Litigation and punitive damages, restitution, funding of a clinical cessation section now also includes discussion of significant cases in which program, funding of a corrective public education program, and RJRT individually and as successor by merger to Lorillard Tobacco, disgorgement of unjust profits from sales to minors.
No other its affiliates and B&W are defendants, in addition to those cases in medical reimbursement suits are pending against these companies which a UK-based Group company is named as a defendant.
by county or other political subdivisions of the states.
The total number of US tobacco product liability cases pending at US Department of Justice action 31 December 2017 involving RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and or B&W 24.
On 22 September 1999, the US Department of Justice brought an was approximately 5,688.
Of these, approximately 4,594 pending action in the US District Court for the District of Columbia against cases involved B&W, compared to approximately 4,925 in 2016. various industry members, including RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, B&W, As at 31 December 2017, British American Tobacco Investments B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. Industries and Investments United States Limited Investments has been served as a co-defendant in one v Philip Morris USA Inc..
The US Department of Justice initially of those cases 2016:one.
No other UK-based Group company has sought 1 recovery of federal funds expended in providing been served as a co-defendant in any US tobacco product liability health care to smokers who developed alleged smoking-related case pending as at 31 December 2017. diseases pursuant to the Medical Care Recovery Act and Medicare Secondary Payer provisions of the Social Security Act and 2 18.
Since many of these pending cases seek unspecified damages, it equitable relief under the civil provisions of Racketeer Influenced is not possible to quantify the total amounts being claimed, but and Corrupt Organizations Act RICO, including disgorgement the aggregate amounts involved in such litigation are significant, of roughly US$280 billion in profits the government contended possibly totalling billions of US dollars.
The cases fall into four were earned as a consequence of a purported racketeering broad categories: medical reimbursement cases: class actions: enterprise along with certain corrective communications.
individual cases and other claims.
In September 2000, the district court dismissed the governments 19.
RJRT individually and as successor by merger to Lorillard Tobacco, Medical Care Recovery Act and Medicare Secondary Payer American Snuff Co. Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Company, Inc. claims.
In February 2005, the US Court of Appeals for the DC SFNTC, R. J. Reynolds Vapor Company RJR Vapor, RAI, Circuit the DC Circuit, ruled that disgorgement was not an Lorillard, other RAI affiliates and indemnitees, including but not available remedy.
limited to B&W collectively, the Reynolds Defendants, believe that they have valid defences to the tobacco-related litigation claims against them, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts against them.
The Reynolds Defendants have, through BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 173 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 25.
Industries was dismissed for lack of personal jurisdiction on accrual was made for the estimated costs of the corrective 28 September 2000.
In addition, Investments was a defendant at communications a portion of which has been utilised.
the trial, but intervening changes in controlling law post-trial led to b Class Actions a 28 March 2011 court ruling that the courts Final Judgment and 29.
At 31 December 2017, RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and B&W were Remedial Order no longer applied to Investments prospectively, named as a defendant in seven separate actions attempting to and for this reason, Investments would not have to comply with assert claims on behalf of classes of persons allegedly injured or any of the remaining injunctive remedies being sought by the financially impacted through smoking, and SFNTC was named in government.
As the government did not appeal the 28 March 17 separate cases where plaintiffs alleged that use of the words 2011 ruling, this means that Investments is no longer in the case natural, additive-free, or organic in NATURAL AMERICAN and is not subject to any injunctive relief that the court is expected SPIRIT advertising and promotional materials suggests that those to order against the remaining defendants.
As the case continued cigarettes are less harmful than other cigarettes and, for that as against RJRT and Lorillard Tobacco with respect to injunctive reason, violated state consumer protection statutes or amounted to relief and related matters, the following is noted.
fraud or a negligent or intentional misrepresentation.
The non-jury trial of the RICO portion of the claim began on are or remain certified, separate trials may be needed to assess 21 September 2004, and ended on 9 June 2005.
On 17 August individual plaintiffs damages.
2006, the federal district court issued its Final Judgment and Lights Cases Remedial Order, which found certain defendants, including RJRT, 30.
Four of the class actions against RJRT, its affiliates and or B&W B&W, Lorillard Tobacco and Investments, had violated RICO, allege that the use of the terms lights and ultralights but did not impose any direct financial penalties.
The district constituted unfair and deceptive trade practices under state law or court instead enjoined the defendants from committing future violates federal RICO laws.
The classes in these cases generally seek racketeering acts, participating in certain trade organisations, to recover compensatory and punitive damages, injunctive and making misrepresentations concerning smoking and health and other forms of relief, and attorneys fees and costs from RJRT and youth marketing, and using certain brand descriptors such as low or B&W.
In general, the plaintiffs allege that RJRT or B&W made tar, light, ultra light, mild and natural.
The district court false and misleading claims that lights cigarettes were lower also ordered the defendants to issue corrective communications in tar and nicotine and or were less hazardous or less mutagenic on five subjects, including smoking and health and addiction, and than other cigarettes.
The cases typically are filed pursuant to state to comply with further undertakings, including maintaining web consumer protection and related statutes.
Similar class action suits sites of historical corporate documents and disseminating certain have been filed in a number of states against individual cigarette marketing information on a confidential basis to the government.
manufacturers and their parent corporations.
In addition, the district court placed restrictions on the defendants ability to dispose of certain assets for use in the United States, a. Turner v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. is a lights class action filed unless the transferee agrees to abide by the terms of the district in February 2000 against RJRT in the Circuit Court, Madison courts order, and ordered certain defendants to reimburse the US County, Illinois.
In November 2001, the trial court certified a Department of Justice its taxable costs incurred in connection with class of purchasers of RJRT lights cigarettes.
2003, the case was stayed pending resolution of Price v Philip Morris, Inc. the seminal lights putative class action 27.
Defendants, including RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, B&W and case filed in the same court and involving RJRTs competitor, Investments, appealed, and the US government cross-appealed Philip Morris.
In Price, the trial court in March 2003 entered to the DC Circuit.
On 22 May 2009, the DC Circuit affirmed the judgment against Philip Morris in the amount of US$7.1 billion federal district courts RICO liability judgment, but vacated the in compensatory damages and US$3 billion in punitive order and remanded for further factual findings and clarification damages.
The Illinois Supreme Court reversed that judgment in as to whether liability should be imposed against B&W, based on December 2005, and after further appeals that court reaffirmed changes in the nature of B&Ws business operations including the its decision in November 2015.
The US Supreme Court extent of B&Ws control over tobacco operations.
The court also denied plaintiffs petition to review the decision in June 2016, remanded on three other discrete issues relating to the injunctive concluding the Price case.
The stay in Turner subsequently remedies, including for the district court to reformulate the expired, and the court accordingly scheduled a series of status injunction on the use of low-tar descriptors to exempt foreign conferences, all of which were continued by agreement of the activities that have no substantial, direct, and foreseeable domestic parties.
The status conference scheduled for 29 March 2017 effects, and for the district court to evaluate whether corrective did not occur and has not been rescheduled.
communications could be required at point-of-sale displays which requirement the DC Circuit vacated.
On 28 June 2010, the US b. Howard v Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. is a lights class Supreme Court denied the parties petitions for further review.
action filed in February 2000 against B&W in the Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois.
On 22 December 2010, the district court dismissed B&W from court certified a class of purchasers of B&W lights cigarettes.
In November 2012, the trial court entered an order In June 2003, the trial judge issued an order staying all setting forth the text of the corrective statements and directed proceedings pending resolution of the Price case described the parties to engage in discussions with the Special Master to above.
In August 2005, an Illinois appellate court affirmed the implement them.
After various proceedings and appeals, the trial courts stay order.
There is currently no activity in the case.
federal district court in October 2017 ordered RJRT and the other US tobacco company defendants to fund the publishing of c. Black v Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. is a lights class compelled public statements in various US media outlets, including action filed in November 2000, which in 2008, the Circuit in newspapers, and on television, the companies websites and Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri stayed pending US Supreme cigarette packaging.
The corrective communications commenced Court review in Good v Altria Group, Inc.
The case is brought running regularly in major US newspapers and television networks by a putative class of purchasers of B&W lights cigarettes.
on 26 November 2017, and will appear in newspapers for four A status conference is scheduled for 4 June 2018. months and on television for one year.
In light of the corrective communications implementation requirements, a US$20 million 174 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued d. Collora v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. is a lights class action filed 36.
Young v American Tobacco Co. Inc. is a case filed in November in 2000 against RJRT in the Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, 1997 in the Circuit Court, Orleans Parish, Louisiana against various Missouri.
The trial court certified a class of purchasers of RJRT US cigarette manufacturers, including RJRT and B&W, and parent lights cigarettes in December 2003.
A status conference is companies of such manufacturers.
This putative ETS class action scheduled for 4 June 2018. was brought on behalf of a putative class of Louisiana residents who, though not themselves cigarette smokers, have been 31.
In the event RJRT, its affiliates or indemnitees lose one or more of exposed to second-hand smoke from cigarettes manufactured the pending lights class-action suits, RJRT, depending upon the by the defendants, and who allegedly suffered injury as a result amount of any damages ordered, could face difficulties in its ability of that exposure, seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory to pay the judgment or obtain any bond required to stay execution and punitive damages.
In March 2016, the court entered an order of the judgment which could have a material adverse effect on staying the case, including all discovery, pending the completion of RJRTs, and consequently RAIs, results of operations, cash flows or the smoking cessation program ordered by the court in Scott v The financial position.
American Tobacco Co. No Additive Natural Organic Claim Cases Engle Class Action and Engle Progeny Cases Florida 32.
A total of 16 putative class actions have been filed in nine US 37.
In July 1998, trial began in Engle v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. a federal district courts against SFNTC, a subsidiary of RAI, which then-certified class action filed in Circuit Court, Miami-Dade cases generally allege, in various combinations, violations of County, Florida, against US cigarette manufacturers, including state deceptive and unfair trade practice statutes, and claim state RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and B&W.
The then-certified class consisted common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and unjust of Florida citizens and residents, and their survivors, who suffered enrichment based on the use of descriptors such as natural, from smoking-related diseases that first manifested between organic and 100% additive-free in the marketing, labelling, 5 May 1990, and 21 November 1996, and were caused by an advertising, and promotion of SFNTCs Natural American Spirit addiction to cigarettes.
In July 1999, the jury in this Phase I found brand cigarettes.
The actions seek various categories of recovery, against RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, B&W and the other defendants including economic damages, injunctive relief including medical on common issues relating to the defendants conduct, general monitoring and cessation programs, interest, restitution, causation, the addictiveness of cigarettes, and entitlement to disgorgement, treble and punitive damages, and attorneys fees punitive damages.
In April 2016, in response to a motion by the various plaintiffs, the US Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation JPML 38.
In July 2000, the jury in Phase II awarded the class a total of consolidated these cases for pre-trial purposes before a federal approximately US$145 billion in punitive damages, apportioned court in New Mexico.
That court heard argument on defendants US$36.3 billion to RJRT, US$17.6 billion to B&W, and motion to dismiss the current consolidated complaint on 9 June US$16.3 billion to Lorillard Tobacco.
On 21 December 2017, the district court granted the in the Engle class action were awarded US$12.7 million in motion in part, dismissing a number of claims with prejudice, compensatory damages.
Plaintiffs motion for class certification 39.
This decision was appealed and ultimately resulted in the Florida is due 19 July 2018.
A hearing on class certification is set for Supreme Court in December 2006 decertifying the class and October 2018. allowing judgments entered for only two of the three Engle 33.
On 7 November 2016, a public health advocacy organisation filed class representatives to stand and setting aside the punitive a putative class action Breathe DC v Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co. damages award.
The court preserved certain of the jurys Inc. in Superior Court for the District of Columbia Washington Phase I findings, including that cigarettes can cause certain DC against SFNTC, RAI and RJRT based on allegations relating to diseases, nicotine is addictive, and defendants placed defective the labelling, advertising and promotional materials for SFNTCs cigarettes on the market, breached duties of care, concealed Natural American Spirit brand cigarettes, which allegations are health-related information and conspired.
Putative Engle class similar to the allegations in the actions consolidated for pre-trial members were permitted to file individual lawsuits, deemed purposes in the transferee court described immediately above.
Engle progeny cases, against the Engle defendants, within one The complaint seeks injunctive and other non-monetary relief, but year of the Supreme Courts decision subsequently extended to does not seek monetary damages.
On 9 June 2017, the defendants 11 January 2008. moved to dismiss this action.
During 2015, RJRT and Lorillard Tobacco, together with Philip Other Putative Class Actions Morris USA Inc. PM USA, settled virtually all of the Engle 34.
Jones v American Tobacco Co. Inc. is a putative class action filed in progeny cases then pending against them in federal district court.
December 1998 in the Circuit Court, Jackson County, Missouri.
The total amount of the settlement was US$100 million divided as The action was brought by a plaintiff on behalf of a putative class follows: RJRT US$42.5 million: PM USA US$42.5 million: and of Missouri tobacco product users and purchasers against various Lorillard Tobacco US$15 million.
The settlement covered more defendants, including RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and B&W, alleging than 400 federal Engle progeny cases but did not cover 12 federal that the plaintiffs use of the defendants tobacco products has progeny cases previously tried to verdict and then pending on caused them to become addicted to nicotine, and seeking an post-trial motions or appeal: and two federal progeny cases filed unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages.
by different lawyers from the ones who negotiated the settlement There is currently no activity in this case.
Parsons v A C & S, Inc. is a case filed in February 1998 in the Circuit Court, Ohio County, West Virginia against various defendants, including RJRT and B&W, on behalf of a putative class of persons who allegedly have personal injury claims arising from their exposure to respirable asbestos fibres and cigarette smoke.
The case is currently stayed pending final resolution of a motion brought by the plaintiffs, and because three defendants filed bankruptcy petitions.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 175 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 41.
As at 31 December 2017, there were approximately 2,569 Engle progeny cases pending in which RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and or B&W have been named as defendants and served.
These cases include claims by or on behalf of 3,276 plaintiffs.
In addition, as of 31 December 2017, RJRT was aware of nine additional Engle progeny cases that have been filed but not served.
The number of pending cases fluctuates for a variety of reasons, including voluntary and involuntary dismissals.
Voluntary dismissals include cases in which a plaintiff accepts an offer of judgment, from RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and or RJRTs affiliates and indemnitees.
An offer of judgment, if rejected by the plaintiff, preserves RJRTs and Lorillard Tobaccos right to recover attorneys fees under Florida law in the event of a verdict favourable to RJRT or Lorillard Tobacco, or affiliates of such entities.
Such offers are sometimes made through court-ordered mediations.
107 Engle progeny cases have been tried in Florida state and federal courts against RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and or B&W since the beginning of 2015 through 31 December 2017, and additional state court trials are scheduled for 2018.
Since the beginning of 2015 through 31 December 2017, RJRT or Lorillard Tobacco has paid judgments in 20 Engle progeny cases.
Those payments totalled US$173.5 million and included US$116.6 million for compensatory or punitive damages and US$56.9 million for attorneys fees and statutory interest.
In addition, accruals for damages and attorneys fees and statutory interest for 13 cases Starr-Blundell v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Monroe v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Lourie v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Lewis v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Block v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Turner v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Schoeff v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Ahrens v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Evers v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Ledoux v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Mathis v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Marchese v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. and Graham v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. and an accrual for attorneys fees and interest for one case, Ward v R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. were recorded in RAIs consolidated balance sheet as of 31 December 2017.
The following chart identifies the number of trials in Engle progeny cases as at 31 December 2017 and additional information about the adverse judgments entered: Phase three trials verdicts judgments appeals of individual Engle progeny cases 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017: Total number of trials 107 Number of trials resulting in plaintiffs verdicts 49 Total damages awarded in final judgments against RJRT US$336,757,755 Amount of overall damages comprising compensatory damages approximately US$159,170,680 ofoverallUS$336,757,755 Amount of overall damages comprising punitive damages approximately US$177,587,075 ofoverallUS$336,757,755 Number of adverse judgments appealed by RJRT 39 Number of adverse judgments not yet appealed, in which RJRT still has time to file an appeal 7 Of the 39 adverse judgments appealed by RJRT: a.
21 appeals remain undecided in the District Courts of Appeal, one additional case has a decision but has a rehearing motion pending so the opinion is not final, one case has a rehearing time pending so opinion is not final, there are seven cases with petitions for review pending in the Florida Supreme Court and nil cases with petitions for review pending in the US Supreme Court: and b. nine were decided and or closed.
Of these nine appeals, five were affirmed in favour of plaintiff further appeal time remains pending in one, one had the liability findings affirmed but was reversed for reinstatement of full compensatory damages amount further appeal time remains pending, and two were reversed and the matter remanded to the trial court for a new trial on all issues one has further appeal time running and one was an appeal of the partial judgment which was subsequently dismissed.
RJRT has paid damages to plaintiffs in three cases that were not appealed that are now closed.
The total damages awarded may vary depending on the outcome of pending appeals.
By statute, Florida applies a US$200 million bond cap to all Engle progeny cases in the aggregate.
Individual bond caps for any given Engle progeny case vary depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time.
Judicial attempts by several plaintiffs in the Engle progeny cases to challenge the bond cap as violating the Florida Constitution have failed, though legislation was introduced in the Florida legislature in August 2017 and September 2017 that if enacted would eliminate the Engle progeny bond cap.
As of 31 December 2017, 99 individual cases were pending in the United States against RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco and or B&W.
This category of cases includes smoking and health cases alleging personal injuries caused by tobacco use or exposure brought by or on behalf of individual plaintiffs based on theories of negligence, strict liability, breach of express or implied warranty and violations of state deceptive trade practices or consumer protection statutes.
The plaintiffs seek to recover compensatory damages, attorneys fees and costs and punitive damages.
The category does not include the West Virginia personal injury cases West Virginia IPIC cases, Engle progeny cases, Broin II cases, and Filter Cases discussed below.
One of the individual cases is brought by or on behalf of an individual or his her survivors alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to ETS.
176 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 46.
The following chart identifies the number of individual cases pending as of 31 December 2017 as against the number pending as of 31 December 2016, along with the number of West Virginia IPIC cases, Engle progeny cases, Broin II cases and Filter Cases, which are discussed below: US Case Numbers US Case Numbers Change in Number Case Type 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Increase Decrease Individual smoking and health cases 99 132 33 West Virginia IPIC number of plaintiffs 1 1 No Change Engle progeny cases number of plaintiffs 2,569 3,276 2,822 3,645 253 369 Broin II cases 2,321 2,406 85 Filter cases 71 78 7 The West Virginia IPIC cases are a series of roughly 1,200 cases, filed in West Virginia beginning in 1999, asserting claims against PM USA, Lorillard Tobacco, RJRT, B&W and The American Tobacco Company.
These cases were brought in consolidated proceedings in West Virginia alleging personal injuries, where the first phase of the trial began on 15 April 2013 and on 15 May 2013 the jury returned a verdict for defendants on all but one of plaintiffs claims the verdict was affirmed on appeal.
The one claim upon which plaintiffs prevailed was a limited failure to instruct claim covering a narrow window of time.
Only 30 plaintiffs qualified to pursue that narrow claim.
In 2017, those 30 plaintiffs agreed to resolve their claims for US $7,000 per case.
That resolution is in the process of being documented.
In addition to the foregoing claims, various plaintiffs in 1999 and 2000 asserted claims against retailers and distributors which have not been pursued in light of the result in the Phase I trial in defendants favour, as well as smokeless claims against various defendants including RJRT, Lorillard, American Snuff and B&W.
41 plaintiffs sought to pursue their smokeless claims in 2017.
In autumn 2017, the 41 smokeless plaintiffs agreed to dismiss their claims without prejudice with a right to refile within two years.
The court is opposed to a voluntary dismissal without prejudice and seeks to either have a dismissal with prejudice or to go forward with the claims for any of the smokeless plaintiffs who want to go forward.
A hearing date has been set for 23 March 2018 to determine whether the plaintiffs are willing to dismiss with prejudice or whether they seek to proceed.
The number of Engle progeny cases will fluctuate as cases are dismissed or if any of the dismissed cases are appealed.
Please see earlier table in paragraph 43.
Broin v Philip Morris, Inc. was a class action filed in Circuit Court in Miami-Dade County, Florida in 1991 and brought on behalf of flight attendants alleged to have suffered from diseases or ailments caused by exposure to ETS in airplane cabins.
In October 1997, RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, B&W and other cigarette manufacturer defendants settled Broin, agreeing to pay a total of US$300 million in three annual US$100 million installments, allocated among the companies by market share, to fund research on the early detection and cure of diseases associated with tobacco smoke.
It also required those companies to pay a total of US$49 million for the plaintiffs counsels fees and expenses.
RJRTs portion of these payments was approximately US$86 million: Lorillard Tobaccos was approximately US$57 million: and B&Ws was approximately US$31 million.
The settlement agreement, among other things, limits the types of claims class members may bring and eliminates claims for punitive damages.
The settlement agreement also provides that, in individual cases by class members that are referred to as Broin II lawsuits, the defendants will bear the burden of proof with respect to whether ETS can cause certain specifically enumerated diseases, referred to as general causation.
With respect to all other liability issues, including whether an individual plaintiffs disease was caused by his or her exposure to ETS in airplane cabins, referred to as specific causation, individual plaintiffs will bear the burden of proof.
On 7 September 1999, the Florida Supreme Court approved the settlement.
There have been no Broin II trials since 2007.
Includes claims brought against Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard by individuals who seek damages resulting from their alleged exposure to asbestos fibres that were incorporated into filter material used in one brand of cigarettes manufactured by a predecessor to Lorillard Tobacco for a limited period of time ending more than 50 years ago.
Pursuant to the terms of a 1952 agreement between P. Lorillard Company and H&V Specialties Co. Inc. the manufacturer of the filter material, Lorillard Tobacco is required to indemnify Hollingsworth & Vose for legal fees, expenses, judgments and resolutions in cases and claims alleging injury from finished products sold by P. Lorillard Company that contained the filter material.
As of 31 December 2017, Lorillard Tobacco and or Lorillard was a defendant in 71 Filter Cases.
Since 1 January 2015, Lorillard Tobacco and RJRT have paid, or have reached agreement to pay, a total of approximately US$32.8 million in settlements to resolve 135 Filter Cases.
In November 1998, the major US cigarette manufacturers, including RJRT, B&W and Lorillard Tobacco, entered into the Master Settlement Agreement MSA with attorneys general representing 46 US states, the District of Columbia and certain US territories and possessions.
These cigarette manufacturers previously settled four other cases, brought on behalf of Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota, by separate agreements with each state collectively and with the MSA, the State Settlement Agreements.
These State Settlement Agreements settled all health-care cost recovery actions brought by, or on behalf of, the settling jurisdictions: released the defending major US cigarette manufacturers from various additional present and potential future claims: imposed future payment obligations in perpetuity on RJRT, B&W, Lorillard Tobacco and other major US cigarette manufacturers: and placed significant restrictions on their ability to market and sell cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products.
In accordance with the MSA, various tobacco companies agreed to fund a US$5.2 billion trust fund to be used to address the possible adverse economic impact of the MSA on tobacco growers.
RJRT and SFNTC are subject to the substantial payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements.
Payments under the State Settlement Agreements are subject to various adjustments for, among other things, the volume of cigarettes sold, relative market share, operating profit and inflation.
RAIs operating subsidiaries expenses and payments under the State Settlement Agreements for 2015, 2016, 2017 and the projected expenses and payments for 2018 onwards are set forth below in millions of US dollars : 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and thereafter Settlement expenses $2,403 $2,727 $2,856 Settlement cash payments $2,166 $3,042 $4,612 Projected settlement expenses $ 3,000 $ 3,000 Projected settlement cash payments $ 1,000 $ 3,000 Subject to adjustments for changes in sales volume, inflation, operating profit and other factors.
Payments are allocated among the companies on the basis of relative market share or other methods.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 177 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 50.
The State Settlement Agreements have materially adversely 54.
On 18 January 2017, the State of Florida filed a motion to enjoin affected RJRTs shipment volumes.
RAI believes that these ITG as a defendant and to enforce the Florida State Settlement settlement obligations may materially adversely affect the results Agreement, which motion seeks payment under the Florida of operations, cash flows or financial position of RAI and RJRT in State Settlement Agreement of approximately US$45 million future periods.
The degree of the adverse impact will depend, with respect to the four brands Winston, Salem, Kool and among other things, on the rate of decline in US cigarette sales in Maverick that were sold to ITG in the Divestiture, referred to as the premium and value categories, RJRTs share of the domestic the Acquired Brands.
The motion also claims future annual losses premium and value cigarette categories, and the effect of any of approximately US$30 million absent the courts enforcement resulting cost advantage of manufacturers not subject to the State of the Florida State Settlement Agreement.
The States motion Settlement Agreements.
sought, among other things, an order declaring that RJR Tobacco and ITG are in breach of the Florida Settlement Agreement and 51.
In addition, the MSA includes an adjustment that potentially are required, jointly and severally, to make annual payments to the reduces the annual payment obligations of RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco State under the Florida State Settlement Agreement with respect and the other signatories to the MSA, known as Participating to the Acquired Brands.
In addition, on 18 January 2017, PM USA Manufacturers PMs.
Certain requirements, collectively referred filed a motion to enforce the Florida State Settlement Agreement, to as the Adjustment Requirements, must be satisfied before the asserting among other things that RJR Tobacco and ITG breached Non-Participating Manufacturers NPM Adjustment for a given that agreement by failing to make settlement payments as to the year is available: i an Independent Auditor must determine that Acquired Brands, which PM USA asserts has improperly shifted the PMs have experienced a market share loss, beyond a triggering settlement payment obligations to PM USA.
On 27 January 2017, threshold, to those manufacturers that do not participate in RJR Tobacco sought leave to file a supplemental pleading for the MSA such non-participating manufacturers being referred breach by ITG of its obligations regarding joinder into the Florida to as NPMs : and ii in a binding arbitration proceeding, a State Settlement Agreement.
The Florida court, on 30 March 2017, firm of independent economic consultants must find that the ruled that ITG should be joined into the enforcement action.
disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the loss of market share.
This finding is known as a significant 55.
After a three-day bench trial, the court entered an order holding factor determination.
that RJR Tobacco not ITG is liable for annual settlement payments for the Acquired Brands, finding that ITG did not assume liability 52.
When the Adjustment Requirements are satisfied, the MSA for annual settlement payments under the terms of the asset provides that the NPM Adjustment applies to reduce the annual purchase agreement relating to the Divestiture and RJR Tobacco payment obligation of the PMs.
However, an individual settling remained liable for payments under the Florida State Settlement state may avoid its share of the NPM Adjustment if it had in place Agreement as to the Acquired Brands.
On 23 January 2018, RJR and diligently enforced during the entirety of the relevant year a Tobacco filed a notice of appeal, and on 25 January 2018, RJR Qualifying Statute that imposes escrow obligations on NPMs Tobacco filed an amended notice of appeal, and PM USA filed a that are comparable to what the NPMs would have owed if they notice of appeal as to the courts ruling as to ITG.
These appeals had joined the MSA.
In such event, the states share of the NPM remain pending.
On 26 January 2018, the State moved for Adjustment is reallocated to other settling states, if any, that did recovery of its attorneys fees and costs from RJR Tobacco.
not have in place and diligently enforce a Qualifying Statute.
The State and PM USA filed a joint motion for the entry of final 53.
RJRT and Lorillard Tobacco are or were involved in NPM judgment on 1 February 2018.
That motion is set for hearing on Adjustment proceedings concerning the years 2003 to 2016.
In January 2018, the auditor of the Florida State In 2012, RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, and SFNTC entered into a Settlement Agreement adjusted the final 2017 invoice for the term sheet with certain settling states that resolved accrued and annual payment and amended the 2015 and 2016 invoices for the potential NPM adjustments for the years 2003 through 2012 respective annual payment and the net operating profit penalty for and, as a result, RJRT and SFNTC collectively received, or are to each of those years under the Florida Settlement Agreement, based receive, more than US$1.1 billion in credits that, in substantial part, on the auditors interpretation of the courts order.
The adjusted were applied to MSA payments in 2014 through 2017.
After an invoices reflected amounts due to both the State of Florida and arbitration panel ruled in September 2013 that six states had not PM USA.
In total, the estimated additional amounts due were diligently enforced their Qualifying Statutes in the year 2003, US$99.4 million with US$83.5 million to the State of Florida and additional states joined the term sheet.
NPM proceedings are US$15.9 million to PM USA.
RJR Tobacco has advised the auditor ongoing and could result in the reduction of the companies that it disputes these amounts, and therefore no further amounts MSA-related payments.
were due or would be paid for those years pending the final resolution of RJR Tobaccos appeal of the courts order.
178 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 56.
On 17 February 2017, ITG filed an action in the Court of Chancery Product Liability Outside the United States of the State of Delaware seeking declaratory relief and a motion for 58.
As at 31 December 2017: a temporary restraining order against RAI and RJR Tobacco.
In its a. active product liability claims against the Groups companies complaint, ITG asked the court to declare various matters related existed in 15 markets outside the US.
The only markets with to its rights and obligations under the asset purchase agreement more than five claims were Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile and related documents relating to the Divestiture.
an injunction barring RAI and or RJR Tobacco from alleging in the Florida enforcement litigation that ITG had breached the b. medical reimbursement actions are being brought in Angola, asset purchase agreement and requiring these companies to Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Nigeria and South Korea.
litigate issues under the asset purchase agreement in Delaware.
c. class actions are being brought in Brazil, Canada, Italy Following a hearing on ITGs complaint and motion on 1 March and Venezuela.
2017, the Delaware court entered a temporary restraining order that enjoined RAI and RJR Tobacco from taking offensive action a Medical reimbursement cases to assert claims against ITG Brands in the Florida enforcement Angola action, but the order does not prevent RJR Tobacco from making 59.
In or about November 2016, BAT Angola affiliate Sociedade arguments in response to claims asserted by the State of Florida, Unificada fide Tabacos fide Angola SUT was served with a PM USA or ITG in the Florida enforcement litigation.
On 24 March collective action filed in the Provincial Court of Luanda, 2nd Civil 2017, RAI and RJR Tobacco answered the ITG complaint and filed Section, by the consumer association Associao Angolana dos a motion to stay proceedings in Delaware pending the outcome Direitos do Consumidor AADIC.
The lawsuit seeks damages of the Florida enforcement litigation, which motion was denied allegedly incurred by the Angolan Instituto Nacional do Controlo 18 May 2017.
Cross motions for partial judgment on the pleadings do Cancro INCC for the cost of treating tobacco-related were filed focusing on whether ITGs obligation to use reasonable disease, non-material damages allegedly suffered by certain best efforts to join the Florida State Settlement Agreement individual smokers on the rolls of INCC, and the mandating of continued after the 12 June 2015 closing.
On 30 November 2017, certain cigarette package warnings.
SUT filed its answer to the following argument, the Delaware court ruled in favour of RJR claim on or about 5 December 2016.
Tobacco, holding that ITGs obligation to use its reasonable best Argentina efforts to join the Florida Settlement Agreement did not terminate 60.
In 2007, the non-governmental organisation the Argentina Tort due to the closing of the asset purchase agreement relating to the Law Association ATLA and Emma Mendoza Voguet brought Divestiture.
RJR Tobacco is considering its next steps.
a reimbursement action against Nobleza Piccardo S. A. I. C. y. F. e UK Based Group Companies Nobleza and Massaln Particulares.
As at 31 December 2017, Investments has been served in one in the Contentious Administrative Court and is currently at the dormant individual action in the US Perry in which there has evidentiary stage.
been no activity since 1998 following the plaintiffs death in 1997.
In August 2007, the So Paulo Public Prosecutors Office filed a medical reimbursement claim against Souza Cruz S. A. Souza Cruz.
A similar claim was lodged against Philip Morris Brasil Indstria e Comrcio Ltda.
On 4 October 2011, the Court dismissed the action against Souza Cruz, with a judgment on the merits.
The plaintiffs appeal to the Court of Appeal failed by unanimous vote three to nil.
The Public Prosecutors Office has since filed a Special Appeal to the Superior Court of Justice.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 179 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Canada 62.
Following the implementation of legislation enabling provincial governments to recover healthcare costs directly from tobacco manufacturers, 10 actions for recovery of healthcare costs arising from the treatment of smoking and health-related diseases have been brought.
These proceedings name various Group companies as defendants, including the Company, Investments, Industries, Carreras Rothmans Limited collectively the UK Companies and Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited Imperial, the Groups operating company in Canada, as well as RJRT and its affiliate R. J. Reynolds Tobacco International Inc. RJRTI collectively, the RJR Companies.
Pursuant to the terms of the 1999 sale of RJRTs international tobacco business, RJRT has tendered the defence of these actions to Japan Tobacco Incorporated JTI.
Subject to a reservation of rights, JTI has assumed the defence of the RJR Companies in these actions.
The ten cases are proceeding in British Columbia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island PEI.
The enabling legislation is in force in all 10 provinces.
In addition, legislation has received Royal Assent in two of the three territories in Canada, but has yet to be proclaimed into force.
In Quebec, three Canadian manufacturers, including Imperial, challenged the enabling legislation.
Act pursuant to which Canadian province Claim was brought Companies named as Defendants Current stage British Columbia Tobacco Damages Imperial The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR and Health Care Investments Companies have been filed, and document production and Costs Recovery Act Industries discoveries are ongoing.
On 13 February 2017, the province 2000 RJR Companies delivered an expert report dated October 2016, quantifying its Other former Rothmans Group damages in the amount of CAD$118 billion.
No trial date has been companies set.
The federal government is seeking CAD$5 million jointly from All have been served.
all the defendants in respect of costs.
New Brunswick Tobacco Damages Imperial, the UK Companies and The defences of Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR and Health Care the RJR Companies have all been Companies have been filed and document production and Costs Recovery Act named as defendants and served.
Damages have been 2006 calculated by the province in the range of CAD$25-$60 billion from 1954 to 2060.
Following a motion to set a trial date, the court has ordered that trial commence on 4 November 2019.
Ontario Tobacco Damages Imperial the UK Companies and This case is at an early case management stage.
Imperial, the UK and Health Care the RJR Companies have all been Companies and the RJR Companies have filed defences.
The parties Costs Recovery Act named as defendants and served.
completed significant document production in summer of 2017 2009 and discoveries are expected to commence in 2018.
The province has stated its claim to be worth CAD$50 billion.
No trial date has been set.
Newfoundland Tobacco Health Care Imperial, the UK Companies and The case is under case management and Imperial, the UK Companies and Labrador Costs Recovery Act the RJR Companies have all been and the RJR Companies have filed defences.
Damages have not been 2006 named as defendants and served.
Saskatchewan Tobacco Damages Imperial, the UK Companies and This case is at an early case management stage.
Defences were filed and Health Care the RJR Companies have all been by Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies and the Costs Recovery Act named as defendants and served.
matter will remain in abeyance for the time being.
Damages have 2012 not been quantified by the province.
Manitoba Tobacco Damages Imperial, the UK Companies and This case is at an early case management stage.
Defences were filed Health Care Costs the RJR Companies have all been by Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies and Recovery Act 2006 named as defendants and served.
Damages have not been quantified by the province.
Alberta Crowns Right of Imperial, the UK Companies and This case is at an early case management stage and Imperial, the Recovery Act 2009 the RJR Companies have all been UK Companies and the RJR Companies have filed defences.
The named as defendants and served.
province has stated its claim to be worth CAD$10 billion.
Quebec Tobacco Related Imperial, Investments, Industries, The case is at an early case management stage.
Defences of Damages and Health the RJR Companies and Carreras Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies have been Care Costs Recovery Rothmans Limited have been filed.
Motions over admissibility of documents and damages Act 2005 named as defendants and served.
discovery have been filed but not heard.
The province is seeking CAD$60 billion.
Prince Edward Tobacco Damages Imperial, the UK Companies and This case is at an early case management stage.
Defences were filed Island and Health Care the RJR Companies have all been by Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies and the Costs Recovery Act named as defendants and served.
next step will be document production, which the parties have 2009 deferred for the time being.
Nova Scotia Tobacco Health Care Imperial, the UK Companies and This case is at an early case management stage.
Defences were filed Costs Recovery Act the RJR Companies have all been by Imperial, the UK Companies and the RJR Companies and the 2005 named as defendants and served.
next step will be document production which the parties have deferred for the time being.
180 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Nigeria b Class actions 64.
British American Tobacco Nigeria Limited BAT Nigeria, the Brazil Company and Investments have been named as defendants in 68.
There are currently two class actions being brought in Brazil.
One is also a medical reimbursement claim So Paulo Public Prosecutors a medical reimbursement action by the federal government of Office, and is therefore discussed above.
Nigeria, filed on 6 November 2007 in the Federal High Court, and in similar actions filed by the Nigerian states of Kano 9 May 69.
In 1995, the Associao fide Defesa da Sade do Fumante 2007, Oyo 30 May 2007, Lagos 13 March 2008, Ogun ADESF class action was filed against Souza Cruz and Philip 26 February 2008, and Gombe 17 October 2008 commenced Morris in the So Paulo Lower Civil Court alleging that the in their respective High Courts.
In the five cases that remain defendants are liable to a class of smokers and former smokers for active, the plaintiffs seek a total of approximately 10.6 trillion failing to warn of cigarette addiction.
The case was stayed in 2004 Nigerian naira roughly 21.8 billion as at 31 December 2017 in pending the defendants appeal from a decision issued by the damages, including special, anticipatory and punitive damages, Lower Civil Court that held that the defendants had not met their restitution and disgorgement of profits, as well as declaratory and burden of proving that cigarette smoking was not addictive or injunctive relief.
The suits claim that the state and federal government plaintiffs 70.
On 12 November 2008, the So Paulo Court of Appeals incurred costs related to the treatment of smoking-related illnesses overturned the lower courts unfavourable decision of 2004, resulting from allegedly tortious conduct by the defendants in the returning the case to the lower court for production of evidence and a new judgment.
Following production of evidence, on manufacture, marketing, and sale of tobacco products in Nigeria, 16 May 2011, the lower court granted Souza Cruzs motion to and assert that the plaintiffs are entitled to reimbursement for such dismiss the action in its entirety on the merits.
The plaintiffs assert causes of action for negligence, negligent to the Sao Paolo Court of Appeals was unsuccessful.
The plaintiffs design, fraud and deceit, fraudulent concealment, breach of then filed a Special Appeal to the Superior Court of Justice, which express and implied warranty, public nuisance, conspiracy, strict was rejected under procedural grounds on 20 February 2017. liability, indemnity, restitution, unjust enrichment, voluntary The plaintiffs filed an appeal of the rejection in the Superior Court assumption of a special undertaking and performance of anothers of Justice on 15 March 2017. duty to the public.
The Company and Investments have made a number of challenges 71.
There are 11 class actions being brought in Canada against to the jurisdiction of the Nigerian courts.
Such challenges are still Group companies.
pending on appeal against the federal government and the states of Lagos, Kano, Gombe and Ogun.
The underlying cases are stayed 72.
Knight Class Action: The Supreme Court of British Columbia or adjourned pending the final outcome of these jurisdictional certified a class of all consumers who purchased Imperial cigarettes challenges.
In the state of Oyo, on 13 November 2015, and in British Columbia bearing light or mild descriptors since 1974.
The plaintiff is seeking compensation for amounts spent 24 February 2017 respectively, the Companys and Investments on light and mild products and a disgorgement of profits jurisdictional challenges were successful in the Court of Appeal and from Imperial on the basis that the marketing of light and the issuance of the writ of summons was set aside.
mild cigarettes was deceptive because it conveyed a false and South Korea misleading message that those cigarettes are less harmful than 67.
In April 2014, Koreas National Health Insurance Service NHIS regular cigarettes.
filed a healthcare recoupment action against KT&G a Korean 73.
On appeal, the appellate court confirmed the certification of the tobacco company, PM Korea and BAT Korea including BAT Korea class, but limited any financial liability, if proven, to 1997 onward.
The NHIS is seeking damages of roughly 54 billion Imperials third party claim against the federal government Korean won roughly 37.5 million as at 31 December 2017 in was dismissed by the Supreme Court of Canada.
The federal respect of health care costs allegedly incurred by the NHIS treating government is seeking a parallel cost order of CAD$5 million patients with lung small cell and squamous cell and laryngeal from Imperial.
After being dormant for several years, the plaintiff squamous cell cancer between 2003 and 2012.
Court hearings delivered a Notice of Intention to Proceed, and Imperial delivered in the case, which constitute the trial, commenced in September an application to dismiss the action for delay.
The application 2014 and remain ongoing.
was heard on 23 June 2017 and was dismissed on 23 August 2017.
Notice to class members of certification was provided on 14 February 2018.
The next anticipated steps include discovery related ones.
Growers Class Action: In December 2009, Imperial was served with a proposed class action filed by Ontario tobacco farmers and the Ontario Flue-Cured Tobacco Growers Marketing Board.
The plaintiffs allege that Imperial and the Canadian subsidiaries of Phillip Morris International and JTI failed to pay the agreed domestic contract price to the growers used in products manufactured for the export market and which were ultimately smuggled back into Canada.
JTI has sought indemnification pursuant to the JTI Indemnities discussed below at paragraphs 118 to 119.
The plaintiffs seek damages in the amount of CAD$50 million.
Various preliminary challenges have been heard, the last being a motion for summary judgment on a limitation period.
The motion was dismissed and ultimately, leave to appeal to the Ontario Court of Appeal was dismissed in November 2016.
In December 2017, the plaintiffs proposed that the action proceed by way of individual actions as opposed to a class action.
The parties are currently in discussions as to next steps.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 181 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 77.
In June 2009, four smoking and health class actions were filed in 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments Nova Scotia Semple, Manitoba Kunka, Saskatchewan Adams continued and Alberta Dorion against various Canadian and non-Canadian 75.
Quebec Class Actions: There are currently two class actions in tobacco-related entities, including the UK Companies, Imperial and Quebec.
On 21 February 2005, the Quebec Superior Court the RJR Companies.
In Saskatchewan, the Company and Carreras granted certification in two class actions against Imperial and Rothmans Limited have been released from the action, and the RJR two other domestic manufacturers.
The Court certified two Companies have brought a motion challenging the jurisdiction of classes, with the class definitions being revised in the judgment the court.
No date has been set in these cases with respect to the rendered 27 May 2015.
One class consists of residents of certification motion hearing.
There are service issues in relation to Quebec who a smoked before 20 November 1998 at least Imperial and the UK Companies in Alberta and in relation to the 12 packs a year of cigarettes manufactured by the Defendants: UK Companies in Manitoba.
and b were diagnosed before 12 March 2012 with: lung 78.
In June 2010, two further smoking and health class actions were cancer, or cancer squamous cell carcinoma of the throat, filed in British Columbia against various Canadian and nonor emphysema.
The group also includes the heirs of persons Canadian tobacco-related entities, including Imperial, the UK deceased after 20 November 1998 who meet the criteria described Companies and the RJR Companies.
The Bourassa claim is allegedly above.
The second consists of residents of Quebec who, as of on behalf of all individuals who have suffered chronic respiratory 30 September 1998, were addicted to nicotine contained in disease and the McDermid claim proposes a class based on heart cigarettes and who in addition meet the following three criteria: disease.
Both claims state that they have been brought on behalf of a they started smoking before 30 September 1994 by smoking those who have smoked a minimum of 25,000 cigarettes.
The UK cigarettes manufactured by the Defendants: b between Companies, Imperial, the RJR Companies and other defendants 1 September and 30 September 1998 they smoked on average objected to jurisdiction.
Subsequently, the Company and Carreras at least 15 cigarettes manufactured by the Defendants on a daily Rothmans Limited were released from Bourassa and McDermid.
basis: and c they still smoked an average of at least 15 cigarettes Imperial, Industries, Investments and the RJR Companies remain as manufactured by the Defendants as of 21 February 2005, or until defendants in both actions.
No certification motion hearing date their death if it occurred before that date.
The group also includes has been set.
The Plaintiffs were due to deliver certification motion the heirs of members who meet the criteria described above.
materials by 31 January 2015, but have not yet done so.
Pursuant to the judgment, the plaintiffs were awarded damages and interest against Imperial and the Canadian subsidiaries of Philip 79.
In June 2012, a new smoking and health class action was filed Morris International and JTI in the amount of CAD$15.6 billion, in Ontario Jacklin against various Canadian and non-Canadian of which Imperials share is CAD$10.4 billion.
An appeal of the tobacco-related entities, including UK Companies, Imperial and the judgment was filed on 26 June 2015.
The Court also awarded RJR Companies.
The claim is presently in abeyance.
provisional execution pending appeal of CAD$1,131 billion, of Italy which Imperials share was approximately CAD$742 million.
In or about June 2010, BAT Italia was served with a class action filed This order was subsequently overturned by the Court of Appeal.
in the Civil Court of Rome by the consumer association, Codacons, Following the cancellation of the order for provisional execution, and three class representatives.
The plaintiffs primarily asserted the plaintiffs filed a motion against Imperial and one other addiction-related claims.
The class action lawsuit was rejected at manufacturer seeking security in the amount of CAD$5 billion the first instance Civil Court of Rome and appellate Rome Court to guarantee, in whole or in part, the payment of costs of the of Appeal court levels.
In July 2012, Codacons filed an appeal appeal and the judgment.
On 27 October 2015, the Court of before the Italian Supreme Court.
At a hearing on 21 January Appeal ordered the parties to post security in the amount of 2015, the Public Prosecutors Office agreed that the appeal CAD$984 million, of which Imperials share is CAD$758 million, should be rejected, and the Supreme Court reserved its decision.
was paid in seven equal quarterly instalments of just over On 1 February 2017, the Supreme Court rejected Codacons CAD$108 million between 31 December 2015 and 30 June 2017 appeal.
Codacons deadline to file a motion for rehearing before see note 14.
Imperial filed its Factum on Appeal on 11 December the Supreme Court falls on or about 5 March 2018.
2015 and the appeal was heard in November 2016.
In April 2008, the Venezuelan Federation of Associations of Users 76.
Other Canadian Smoking and Health Class Actions: Seven putative and Consumers FEVACU and Wolfang Cardozo Espinel and class actions, described below, have been filed against various Giorgio Di Muro Di Nunno, acting as individuals, filed a class Canadian and non-Canadian tobacco-related entities, including action against the Venezuelan government.
The class action the UK Companies, Imperial and the RJR Companies, in various seeks regulatory controls on tobacco and recovery of medical Canadian Provinces.
In these cases, the plaintiffs allege claims expenses for future expenses of treating smoking-related illnesses based on fraud, fraudulent concealment, breach of warranty, in Venezuela.
Both C. A Cigarrera Bigott Sucs.
Cigarrera Bigott breach of warranty of merchantability, and of fitness for a particular and ASUELECTRIC, represented by its president Giorgio Di Muro purpose, failure to warn, design defects, negligence, breach of a Di Nunno who had previously filed as an individual, have been special duty to children and adolescents, conspiracy, concert of admitted as third parties by the Constitutional Chamber of the action, unjust enrichment, market share liability, and violations of Supreme Court of Justice.
A hearing date for the action is yet to be various trade practices and competition statutes.
On 25 April 2017, Cigarrera Bigott requested the Court terms of the 1999 sale of RJRTs international tobacco business, to declare the lapsing of the class action due to no proceedings RJRT has tendered to JTI the defence of these seven actions taking place in the case in over a year.
A ruling on the matter is yet Semple, Kunka, Adams, Dorion, Bourassa, McDermid and to be issued.
As at 31 December 2017, the jurisdictions with the most active individual cases against Group companies were, in descending order: Brazil 69, Italy 24, Chile 7, Canada 7, Argentina 6 and Ireland 2.
There were a further five jurisdictions with one active case only.
182 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Non-Tobacco Related Litigation BAT Reynolds American Inc.
Following the Companys acquisition of the remaining 57.8% of Reynolds American Inc. Lorillard, Inc.
Shareholder Litigation RAI in July 2017, pursuant to North Carolina law, under which RAI 83.
On 15 July 2014, RAI announced that it had entered into a was incorporated, a number of RAI stockholders dissented and definitive merger agreement with Lorillard, Inc. Lorillard, asserted their rights to a judicial appraisal of the value of their RAI whereby RAI would acquire Lorillard in exchange for a combination stock.
On 29 November 2017, RAI filed a Complaint for Judicial of cash and RAI stock the Lorillard Transaction.
As part of this Appraisal in state court in North Carolina against 20 dissenting transaction, the Company executed a Share Purchase Agreement stockholders, comprised of three groups of affiliated entities.
to acquire a sufficient number of RAIs shares to maintain its The complaint asks the court to determine the fair value of the approximately 42.2% equity stake in RAI after the merger.
dissenting stockholders shares in RAI and any accrued interest.
On 8 August 2014, the Company was named as a defendant in An initial case management conference is set for 9 March 2018. anaction in state court in North Carolina Corwin v British American Fontem Patent Litigation Tobacco PLC stemming from the announcement of the Lorillard 88.
On 4 April 2016, a case was filed in federal court in California, Transaction.
The action was brought on behalf of a putative class Fontem Ventures B. V. and Fontem Holdings 1 B. V. v R. J. Reynolds Vapor of RAIs shareholders alleging that the Company is a controlling Company, which alleges that VUSE products infringe four patents shareholder of RAI and breached its fiduciary duty to the other owned by Fontem purportedly directed to e-cigarettes.
On 3 May RAIs shareholders in connection with the Lorillard Transaction.
2016, Fontem filed a second complaint asserting that the VUSE RAI and the members of the RAI Board of Directors were also products infringe two additional Fontem patents purportedly named as defendants.
On 22 June 2016, Fontem filed a third 85.
RAI believed that the Corwin action was without merit.
However, complaint asserting that the VUSE products infringe one additional to eliminate certain burdens, expenses and uncertainties, on Fontem patent purportedly directed to e-cigarettes.
RJR Vapor 17 January 2015, RAI and the director defendants in Corwin filed an answer in the first case on 27 June 2016, and an amended entered into the North Carolina Memorandum of Understanding answer on 25 July 2016.
RJR Vapor also filed answers in the second regarding the settlement of the disclosure claims asserted in that and third cases on 25 July 2016.
On 29 June 2016, RJR Vapor filed lawsuit.
The North Carolina Memorandum of Understanding a motion to transfer the three cases to the Middle District of North outlines the terms of the parties agreement in principle to settle Carolina, which was granted on 8 August 2016.
On 14 December and release the disclosure claims which were or could have been 2016, the transferred cases were consolidated with lead case asserted in Corwin.
In consideration of the partial settlement and Fontem Ventures B. V. and Fontem Holdings 1 B. V. v R. J. Reynolds Vapor release, RAI agreed to make certain supplemental disclosures to Company, 16-cv-1255 M. D. N. C.. On 1 March 2017, Fontem the Joint Proxy Statement Prospectus, which it did on 20 January filed a fourth complaint in the Middle District of North Carolina 2015.
On 17 February 2016, the trial court approved the partial asserting that the VUSE products infringe eight additional Fontem settlement, including the plaintiffs unopposed request for patents.
RJR Vapor filed an answer to the fourth complaint on US$415,000 in attorneys fees and costs.
On 14 April 2017, Fontem filed a motion to amend did not affect the consideration paid to Lorillard shareholders in the consolidated three prior actions to add certain Reynolds connection with the Lorillard Merger.
Companies as additional defendants, which was denied as moot on 30 May 2017, due to an agreed stipulation where the 86.
On 4 August 2015, the trial court granted the defendants additional Reynolds entities agreed to be bound by any judgment motions to dismiss all of the remaining non-disclosure claims.
and to provide discovery as if they were named parties.
On 9 May On 28 August 2015, the court dismissed all claims against the 2017, the fourth action was also consolidated with the lead case.
Among other things, the court found that the plaintiff In the district court litigation, the parties are currently engaged in had not properly alleged that the Company was a controlling claim construction proceedings and fact discovery.
Also, to date, shareholder of RAI and therefore that the Company did not RJR Vapor has filed 17 petitions for inter partes review against seven owe a fiduciary duty to RAIs other shareholders.
The plaintiff of the 15 asserted patents.
Four of the petitions have been granted appealed.
On 20 December 2016, the North Carolina Court of and 13 have been denied.
The USPatent Office has issued final Appeals affirmed the trial courts dismissal of the claims against written decisions FWD in two of the granted IPRs.
In one FWD, RAI and RAIs Board of Directors on the grounds that the plaintiff the Patent Office held all challenged claims unpatentable.
In the could not state a direct claim against RAIs Board of Directors for other, the Patent Office held that RJR Vapor failed to show that the breach of fiduciary duties.
That court reversed the trial courts challenged claims are unpatentable.
RJR Vapor filed a notice judgment with respect to the claims against the Company, finding of appeal on 19 February 2018. the allegations that the Company was a controlling shareholder and breached its fiduciary duty to be sufficient to warrant further proceedings for the plaintiff to attempt to prove those allegations with evidence.
On 4 January 2017, the Company moved to have the North Carolina Court of Appeals rehear the case en banc, and that motion was denied on 2 February 2017.
On 17 February 2017, the Company filed a petition for discretionary review with the North Carolina Supreme Court, which the plaintiff opposed on 27 February 2017.
On 9 June 2017, the North Carolina Supreme Court allowed the Companys petition for discretionary review.
Briefing in the North Carolina Supreme Court concluded on 23 August 2017, and oral argument was held on 9 January 2018.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 183 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Fox River 95.
On 20 October 2017 P. H. Glatfelter filed an appeal against the Background to environmental liabilities arising out of approval of the Consent Decree in the US Court of Appeals for the contamination of the Fox River Seventh Circuit.
The US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit 89.
In Wisconsin, the authorities have identified potentially responsible has ordered that written appeal briefs be filed by the parties by parties PRPs to fund the clean-up of river sediments in the 19 March 2018.
Any oral argument will follow later in 2018. lower Fox River.
The pollution was caused by discharges of The date of any ruling on the appeal is currently unknown.
Polychlorinated Biphenyls PCBs from paper mills and other Industries involvement with environmental liabilities arising out of the facilities operating close to the river.
Among the PRPs is NCR contamination of the Fox River Corporation NCR.
NCR has taken the position that, under the terms of a 1998 90.
In NCRs Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended Settlement Agreement between it, Appvion and Industries and 31 December 2014, which is the most recent public source a 2005 arbitration award, Industries and Appvion generally available, the total clean-up costs for the Fox River are estimated at had a joint and several obligation to bear 60% of the Fox US$825 million.
This estimate is subject to uncertainties and does River environmental remediation costs imposed on NCR and not include natural resource damages NRDs.
Total NRDs may of any amounts NCR has to pay in respect of other PRPs range from US$nil to US$246 million.
Industries involvement with the environmental liabilities arises 97.
Until May 2012, Appvion and Windward another former out of indemnity arrangements which it became party to due to a Group subsidiary paid the 60% share of the clean-up costs and series of transactions that took place from the late-1970s onwards Industries was never required to contribute.
Around that time and subsequent litigation brought by NCR against Industries and Appvion refused to continue to pay clean-up costs, leading to NCR Appvion Inc. Appvion a former Group subsidiary in relation demanding that Industries pay a 60% share.
to those arrangements which was ultimately settled.
Industries commenced proceedings against Windward and have never identified Industries as a PRP.
Appvion in December 2011 seeking indemnification in respect 92.
There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the United of any liability it might have to NCR the English Indemnity States involving NCR and Appvion regarding the responsibility Proceedings pursuant to a 1990 fide-merger agreement between for the costs of the clean-up operations.
The US Government also those parties.
brought enforcement proceedings against NCR and Appvion to Funding Agreement of 30 September 2014 ensure compliance with regulatory orders made in relation to 99.
On 30 September 2014, Industries entered into the Funding the Fox River clean-up.
This litigation has been settled through Agreement with Windward, Appvion, NCR and BTI 2014 LLC agreements with other PRPs and a form of settlement known as a BTI a wholly owned subsidiary of Industries.
Pursuant to the Consent Decree with the US Government.
Funding Agreement, the English Indemnity Proceedings and a 93.
The principal terms of the Consent Decree, in summary, are counterclaim Appvion had brought in those proceedings, as well as follows: as a NCR-Appvion arbitration concerning Appvions indemnity to NCR, were discontinued as part of an overall agreement a. NCR will perform and fund all of the remaining Fox River between the parties providing a framework through which they remediation work by itself.
would together fund the ongoing costs of the Fox River clean-up.
The US Government enforcement proceedings will be settled, Under the agreement, NCR has agreed to accept funding by with NCR having no liability to meet the US Governments Industries at the lower level of 50% of the ongoing clean-up claim for costs it has incurred in relation to the clean-up to related costs of the Fox River rather than the 60% referenced date and only a secondary responsibility to meet certain above: this remains subject to an ability to litigate at a later future costs.
NCR will have no liability to the US Government stage the extent of Industries liability in relation to Fox River for NRDs.
clean-up related costs including in respect of the 50% of costs that Industries has paid under the Funding Agreement to date.
c. NCR will cease to pursue its contribution claims against the In addition Windward has contributed US$10 million of funding other PRPs and in return will receive contribution protection and Appvion has contributed US$25 million for Fox River and which means that the other PRPs will not be able to pursue agreed to contribute US$25 million for the Kalamazoo River see their contribution claims against NCR.
NCR will, however, further below.
Appvion entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection have the right to reinstate its contribution claims if the other on 1 October 2017.
PRPs decide to continue to pursue certain contractual claims against NCR.
The parties also agreed to cooperate in order to maximise recoveries from certain claims made against third parties, including d. Appvion will also cease to pursue its claims against the other i a claim commenced by Windward in the High Court of England PRPs to recover monies that it has spent on the clean-up and & Wales the High Court against Sequana and the former in return will receive contribution protection.
Appvion will, Windward directors the Windward Dividend Claim.
That claim however, have the right to reinstate its claims if the other PRPs was assigned to BTI under the Funding Agreement, and relates decide to continue to pursue certain claims against Appvion.
to dividend payments made by Windward to Sequana of around 94.
The Consent Decree was approved by the District Court in 443 million in 2008 and 135 million in 2009 the Dividend Wisconsin on 23 August 2017.
The US Government enforcement Payments and ii a claim commenced by Industries directly action against NCR was terminated as a result of that order.
against Sequana to recover the value of the Dividend Payments The PRPs claims for contribution against NCR were dismissed by alleging that the dividends were paid for the purpose of putting order of the District Court in Wisconsin given on 11 October 2017. assets beyond the reach of Windwards creditors including Industries the BAT section 423 Claim.
184 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 101.
A trial of the Windward Dividend Claim and the BAT section 423 108.
A full trial on liability took place in February 2013.
Claim took place before the English High Court between February On 26 September 2013, the Michigan Court held that NCR and April 2016.
Judgment was handed down by the High Court was liable as a PRP on the basis that broke sales constituted on 11 July 2016.
The Court held that the 2009 Dividend Payment an arrangement for the disposal of hazardous material for the of 135 million was a transaction at an undervalue made with the purposes of CERCLA.
The decision was based on NCRs knowledge intention of putting assets beyond the reach of Industries or of of the hazards of PCBs from at least 1969.
NCR will have the ability otherwise prejudicing Industries interests.
It therefore contravened to appeal the ruling once a final judgment has been entered or it Section 423 of the Insolvency Act.
The Court dismissed the has been otherwise certified for appeal.
BTI sought permission to appeal 109.
The second phase of the Kalamazoo trial to determine the in respect of the Judges findings in relation to the Windward apportionment of liability amongst NCR, Georgia-Pacific and Dividend Claim.
Sequana sought permission to appeal the Judges the other PRPs International Paper Company and Weyerhaeuser findings in relation to the BAT section 423 Claim.
Company took place between September and December 2015.
On 13 and 16 January 2017 and 3 February 2017 further hearings The parties are currently waiting for the Court to hand down its took place to determine the precise form of relief to be awarded judgment.
The court may or may not also rule on the allocation of to Industries and to hear the parties applications for permission future costs.
Industries anticipates that NCR may seek to recover to appeal.
Judgment was handed down on 10 February 2017. from Appvion subject to a cap of US$25 million for Future Sites In respect of relief, the Court ordered that Sequana must pay BTI under the Funding Agreement.
As described above Appvion an amount up to the full value of the 2009 Dividend plus interest entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on 1 October 2017. which equates to around US$185 million.
This figure is subject to The effect of the Chapter 11 proceedings on Appvions liability for increase as interest is continuing to accrue.
Sequana must make an Future Sites payments under the Funding Agreement is currently initial payment of around US$138.4 million and further payments uncertain and or Industries 60% of any Kalamazoo clean-up going forward as and when Industries makes payments in respect costs for which it is found liable on the basis, it would be asserted, of clean-up costs.
In respect of appeals, the Court granted BTI and that the river constitutes a Future Site for the purposes of the Sequana permission to appeal.
The appeal hearing is expected Settlement Agreement.
Industries has defences to any such claim to take place during June 2018.
The Court also granted Sequana by NCR.
The Funding Agreement described above does not resolve a stay in respect of the above payments.
The stay was lifted in any such claims, but does provide an agreed mechanism pursuant May 2017. to which any surplus from the valuable recoveries of any third party claims that remains after all Fox River related clean-up costs have 103.
In February 2017 Sequana entered into a process in France been paid and Industries and NCR have been made whole may seeking court protection the Sauvegarde.
Sequana exited the be applied towards Kalamazoo clean-up costs, in the event that Sauvegarde in June 2017.
To date, Industries has not received any NCR were to be successful in any claim for a portion of them from payments from Sequana.
Industries or Appvion subject to Appvions cap.
BTI has brought claims against certain of Windwards former the clean-up costs for the Kalamazoo River is presently unclear as advisers, including Windwards auditors at the time of the dividend is the extent of NCRs liability in respect of such costs, but could payments,  LLP which claims were also run into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
A witness on behalf of assigned to BTI under the Funding Agreement.
Those claims were Georgia-Pacific testified in the trial concerning apportionment of subject to a consensual stay which BAT has terminated.
PwC has liability that the cost of performing future remediation in Operable indicated that it will be seeking a further stay.
Unit 5 of the Kalamazoo River was in the order of US$670 million.
Operable Unit 5 is the Kalamazoo River itself, as distinct from the 105.
The sums Industries has agreed to pay under the Funding other Operable Units which are landfills or other facilities adjoining Agreement are subject to ongoing adjustment, as clean-up costs the Kalamazoo River.
Remediation of these other Operable Units can only be estimated in advance of the work being carried has largely been completed except for monitoring.
out and as certain sums payable are the subject of ongoing US litigation.
In 2016, Industries paid 6 million in respect of clean-up 110.
As detailed above, Industries is taking active steps to protect its costs and is potentially liable for a further 159 million in future interests, including seeking to procure the repayment of the clean-up costs.
Industries has a provision of 163 million which Windward dividends, pursuing the other valuable claims that are represents the current best estimate of its exposure see note 21. now within its control, and working with the other parties to the Funding Agreement to maximise recoveries from third parties with Kalamazoo a view to ensuring that amounts funded towards clean up related 106.
Industries is aware that NCR is also being pursued by Georgiacosts are later recouped under the agreed repayment mechanisms Pacific, as the owner of a facility on the Kalamazoo River in under the Funding Agreement.
Michigan which released PCBs into that river.
Georgia-Pacific has been designated as a PRP in respect of the river.
Georgia-Pacific contends that NCR is responsible for, or should contribute to, the clean-up costs, because: a. a predecessor to NCRs Appleton Papers Division sold broke containing PCBs to Georgia-Pacific or others for recycling: b. NCR itself sold paper containing PCBs to Georgia-Pacific or others for recycling: and or c. NCR is liable for sales to Georgia-Pacific or others of PCBcontaining broke by Mead Corporation, which, like the predecessor to NCRs Appleton Papers Division, coated paper with the PCB containing emulsion manufactured by NCR.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 185 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued Other environmental matters believes that the defences of the Groups companies to all these various claims are meritorious on both the law and the facts, and 111.
RAI and its subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local a vigorous defence is being made everywhere.
environmental laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances.
An adverse judgment was entered against one Group company, Such laws and regulations provide for significant fines, penalties Imperial, in the Quebec class actions and an appeal has been and liabilities, sometimes without regard to whether the owner made.
If further adverse judgments are entered against any of or operator of the property or facility knew of, or was responsible the Groups companies in any case, all avenues of appeal will be for, the release or presence of hazardous or toxic substances.
Such appeals could require the appellants to post appeal In addition, third parties may make claims against owners or bonds or substitute security as has been necessary in Quebec in operators of properties for personal injuries and property damage amounts which could in some cases equal or exceed the amount associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances.
At least in the aggregate, and despite the quality past, RJRT has been named a potentially responsible party with of defences available to the Group, it is not impossible that the third parties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Groups results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly Compensation and Liability Act with respect to several superfund or annual periods could be materially adversely affected by the sites.
RAI and its subsidiaries are not aware of any current impact of a significant increase in litigation, difficulties in obtaining environmental matters that are expected to have a material the bonding required to stay execution of judgments on appeal, or adverse effect on the business, results of operations or financial any final outcome of any particular litigation.
position of RAI or its subsidiaries.
Having regard to all these matters, with the exception of Fox Criminal investigations River and certain Engle progeny cases identified above, and the 112.
As previously reported by the Company, it has been investigating, US Department of Justice litigation, the Group does not consider through external legal advisors, allegations of misconduct and has it appropriate to make any provision in respect of any pending been liaising with the UKs Serious Fraud Office SFO and other litigation because the likelihood of any resulting material loss, relevant authorities.
It was announced in August 2017 that the on an individual case basis, is not considered probable and or SFO had opened an investigation in relation to the Company, its the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated.
The company is cooperating The Group does not believe that the ultimate outcome of this with the SFOs investigation.
litigation will significantly impair the Groups financial condition.
If the facts and circumstances change, then there could be material 113.
The outcomes of these matters will be decided by the relevant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
authorities or, if necessary, the courts.
It is too early to predict the outcomes, but these could include the prosecution of individuals Other contingencies and or of a Group company or companies.
By a purchase agreement dated 9 March 1999, potential for fines, penalties or other consequences cannot amended and restated as of 11 May 1999, referred to as the currently be assessed.
As the investigation is ongoing, it is not yet 1999 Purchase Agreement, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. possible to identify the timescale in which these matters might RJR and RJRT sold their international tobacco business to JTI.
Under the 1999 Purchase Agreement, RJR and RJRT retained certain liabilities relating to the international tobacco business Closed litigation matters sold to JTI, and agreed to indemnify JTI against: i any liabilities, 114.
The following matters on which the Company reported in the costs and expenses arising out of the imposition or assessment of contingent liabilities and financial commitments note 28 to the any tax with respect to the international tobacco business arising Companys 2016 financial statements have been dismissed, prior to the sale, other than as reflected on the closing balance concluded or resolved as noted below: sheet: ii any liabilities, costs and expenses that JTI or any of Matter Jurisdiction Companies Description Disposition its affiliates, including the acquired entities, may incur after the named as sale with respect to any of RJRs or RJRTs employee benefit and Defendants welfare plans: and iii any liabilities, costs and expenses incurred Ratcliff US Seattle, Company Product Dismissed as to by JTI or any of its affiliates arising out of certain activities of Washington liability the Company Northern Brands.
As described above, RJRT has received claims for indemnification matter 2017 from JTI, and several of these have been resolved.
Although RJR and Khosravi England Company, Alleged Claim dismissed RJRT recognise that, under certain circumstances, they may have B.
A. T U. K. wrongdoing at first instance other unresolved indemnification obligations to JTI under the 1999 and Export, by former and permission Purchase Agreement, RJR and RJRT disagree what circumstances B.
A. T. Pars distributor to appeal described in such claims give rise to any indemnification Company refused.
obligations by RJR and RJRT and the nature and extent of any such Georgian Georgia British Alleged Court of Appeal obligation.
RJR and RJRT have conveyed their position to JTI, and Competition American breach of overturned the the parties have agreed to resolve their differences at a later date.
Claim Tobacco local tobacco negative Georgia control and judgment and competition permission to laws appeal to the Supreme Court was refused.
While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, the Group 186 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 120.
In the purchase agreement relating to the divestiture 123.
Indemnification of Distributors and Retailers.
RJRT, Lorillard Tobacco, of certain assets, on 12 June 2015, by subsidiaries or affiliates of Santa Fe, American Snuff Co. and RJR Vapor have entered into RAI and Lorillard, together with the transfer of certain employees agreements to indemnify certain distributors and retailers from and certain liabilities, to a wholly owned subsidiary of Imperial liability and related defence costs arising out of the sale or Brands plc the Divestiture, RAI agreed to defend and indemnify, distribution of their products.
Additionally, Santa Fe has entered subject to certain conditions and limitations, ITG in connection into an agreement to indemnify a supplier from liability and related with claims relating to the purchase or use of one or more of the defence costs arising out of the sale or use of Santa Fes products.
Winston, Kool, Salem or Maverick cigarette brands on or before The cost has been, and is expected to be, insignificant.
RJRT, Santa 12 June 2015, as well as in actions filed before 13 June 2023, Fe, American Snuff Co. and RJR Vapor believe that the indemnified relating to the purchase or use of one or more of the Winston, claims are substantially similar in nature and extent to the Kool, Salem or Maverick cigarette brands.
In the purchase claims that they are already exposed to by virtue of their having agreement relating to the Divestiture, ITG agreed to defend and manufactured those products.
indemnify, subject to certain conditions and limitations, RAI and 124.
Except as otherwise noted above, RAI is not able to estimate the its affiliates in connection with claims relating to the purchase or maximum potential of future payments, if any, related to these use of blu brand e-cigarettes.
ITG also agreed to defend and indemnification obligations.
indemnify, subject to certain conditions and limitations, RAI and its affiliates in actions filed after 12 June 2023, relating to the purchase 125.
Investments has agreed to indemnify its or use of one or more of the Winston, Kool, Salem or Maverick supplier of crushable capsules in respect of liabilities including cigarette brands after 12 June 2015. damages and legal costs that it may incur as a result of pending legal proceedings brought against its supplier regarding alleged 121.
In 2008, Loews Corporation Loews, entered patent infringement.
Damages are currently being sought in into an agreement with Lorillard, Lorillard Tobacco, and certain of the region of 40 million.
The extent of Investments liability their affiliates, which agreement is referred to as the Separation under the indemnity will depend upon the final outcome of Agreement.
In the Separation Agreement, Lorillard agreed to those proceedings.
indemnify Loews and its officers, directors, employees and agents against all costs and expenses arising out of third party claims Tax Disputes including, without limitation, attorneys fees, interest, penalties The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a and costs of investigation or preparation of defence, judgments, number of taxes.
The Group is and has been subject to a number of fines, losses, claims, damages, liabilities, taxes, demands, tax audits covering, amongst others, excise tax, value added taxes, assessments, and amounts paid in settlement based on, arising sales taxes, corporate taxes, withholding taxes and payroll taxes.
out of or resulting from, among other things, Loews ownership The estimated costs of known tax obligations have been provided of or the operation of Lorillard and its assets and properties, and in these accounts in accordance with Groups accounting policies.
its operation or conduct of its businesses at any time prior to or In some countries, tax law requires that full or part payment of following the separation of Lorillard and Loews including with disputed tax assessments be made pending resolution of the dispute.
respect to any product liability claims.
Loews is a defendant in To the extent that such payments exceed the estimated obligation, three pending product liability actions, each of which is a putative they would not be recognised as an expense.
Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Lorillard is required to indemnify Loews for the amount of any losses and The following matters may proceed to litigation: any legal or other fees with respect to such cases.
Following the Brazil closing of the Lorillard merger, RJRT assumed Lorillards obligations under the Separation Agreement as was required under the The Brazilian Federal Tax Authority has filed claims against Souza Cruz Separation Agreement.
seeking to reassess the profits of overseas subsidiaries to corporate income tax and social contribution tax.
In connection with the 13 January 2016 sale for the years 2004 until and including 2012 for a total amount of by RAI of the international rights to the Natural American Spirit R$1,436 million 320 million to cover tax, interest and penalties.
brand name and associated trademarks, along with SFR Tobacco International GmbH SFRTI and other international companies Souza Cruz appealed all reassessments.
Regarding the first assessments that distributed and marketed the brand outside the United States, 2004-2006 Souza Cruz appeal was rejected in 2013 although the to JT International Holding BV JTI Holding, each of SFNTC, written judgement of that tribunal was received in 2016.
Souza Cruz R. J. Reynolds Global Products, Inc. and R. J. Reynolds Tobacco B. V. have appealed the decision.
The appeal against the second agreed to indemnify JTI Holding against, among other things, any assessments 2007 and 2008 was upheld at the second tier tribunal liabilities, costs, and expenses relating to actions i commenced and was closed.
In 2015 a further reassessment for the same period on or before a 13 January 2019, to the extent relating to alleged 2007 and 2008 was raised after the 5 year statute of limitation.
personal injuries, and b in all other cases, 13 January 2021: This has been appealed to the administrative level special chamber.
ii brought by a a governmental authority to enforce legislation Souza Cruz received further reassessments in 2014 for the 2009 implementing European Union Directive 2001 37 EC or European calendar year and in 2015 an assessment for the 2010 calendar year.
Directive 2014 40 EU or b consumers or a consumer association: Souza Cruz appealed both the reassessments in full.
In December and iii arising out of any statement or claim a made on or 2016, assessments were received for the calendar years 2011 and 2012 before 13 January 2016, b by any company sold to JTI Holding which have also been appealed.
in the transaction, c concerning Natural American Spirit brand products consumed or intended to be consumed outside of the United States and d that the Natural American Spirit brand product is natural, organic, or additive free.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 187 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 28 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued South Africa In 2011 the South African Revenue Service SARS challenged the debt financing of British American Tobacco South Africa BATSA and reassessed the years 2006 to 2008.
BATSA has objected to and appealed this reassessment.
In 2014, SARS also reassessed the years 2009 and 2010.
In 2015, BATSA filed formal Notices of Appeal and detailed objection letters against the 2009 and 2010 assessments and has reserved its right to challenge the constitutionality of the assessments at a later date.
In 2016, SARS filed a Statement of Grounds of Assessment and BATSA filed its Statement of Grounds of Appeal in early 2017.
BATSA is currently waiting to receive SARS response to the Statement of Grounds of Appeal and its notice of discovery.
Across the period from 2006 to 2010 the reassessments are for R2.01 billion 120 million covering both tax and interest.
Netherlands The Dutch tax authority has issued assessments for the years 2004 and 2005, and 2008 through to 2013 in the sum of 199 million 177 million to cover tax, interest and penalties.
The assessments relate to a number of intra-group transactions.
On the same issues, for periods through to 2016 an additional aggregate sum of 64 million 57 million covering tax, interest and penalties is expected to be assessed.
Further challenges relating to other intra-group transactions arising in the 2016 year could potentially also be assessed by the Dutch Tax authority.
The Group believes that its companies have meritorious defences in law and fact in each of the above matters and intends to pursue each dispute through the judicial system as necessary.
The Group does not consider it appropriate to make provision for these amounts assessed nor for any potential further amounts which may be assessed in relation to these matters in subsequent years.
While the amounts that may be payable or receivable in relation to tax disputes could be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are recognised, the Board does not expect these amounts to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
VAT and duty disputes Bangladesh The operating company is in receipt of a retrospective notice of imposition and realisation of VAT and supplementary duty on low price category brands from the National Board of Revenue NBR for approximately 160 million.
The company is alleged to have evaded tax by selling the products in the low price segments rather than the mid-tier price segments.
Management believe that the claims are unfounded.
On 13 November 2017, the appeal was admitted and the appeal hearing is scheduled for 13 February 2018.
Operating leases Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases comprise leases where payments fall due: 2017 2016 m m Property Within one year 75 45 Between one and five years 183 104 Beyond five years 117 50 375 199 Plant and equipment Within one year 32 18 Between one and five years 38 23 70 41 Performance guarantees As shown in note 24, as part of the acquisition of TDR in 2015, the Group has committed to keeping the manufacturing facility in Kanfanar, Croatia, operational for at least five years following completion of the acquisition.
A similar commitment was given in respect of the packaging plant in Rovinj, Croatia.
The maximum exposure under these guarantees is 46 million 2016: 42 million.
188 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
