Additional disclosures Information on the Group Overview Company Limited, a tobacco manufacturing and distribution company BAT is the parent holding company of the Group, a leading, multiin the Republic of Sudan: and the CHIC Group, a vapour product category consumer goods company that provides tobacco and business in Poland: and TDR d. o. o. a cigarette manufacturer in Central nicotine products to millions of consumers around the world.
Also in 2015, in connection with the Lorillard Merger, the According to the Groups internal estimates, the BAT Group is a market Group invested US$4.7 billion to maintain its approximate 42% equity leader in more than 55 countries by volume, producing the cigarette position in the enlarged RAI, following RAIs purchase of Lorillard.
chosen by one in eight of the worlds one billion smokers.
The Group In 2016, the Group acquired Ten Motives, a UK based e-cigarette in 2017, excluding the Groups associated undertakings, was organised business with particular strength in traditional grocery and into five regions: Asia-Pacific, Americas, Eastern Europe Middle East and convenience channels.
Africa EEMEA and Western Europe, and the US Reynolds American Inc.
The Group has a devolved structure, with each local company In 2017, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 57.8% having responsibility for its operations.
of RAI the Group did not already own.
Following completion of the acquisition, RAI became an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of BAT Effective 1 January 2018, the Group is organised into four regions, and is no longer a publicly held corporation.
being the United States, Asia-Pacific and Middle East APME, Europe and North Africa ENA and Americas and Sub-Saharan Africa AmSSA.
During 2017, the Group acquired certain tobacco assets from Bulgartabac Holding AD in Bulgaria and FDS in Bosnia.
The Group The Groups range of combustible products covers all segments, from also acquired Winnington Holdings AB in Sweden and certain assets value-for-money to premium with a portfolio of international, regional from Must Have Limited in the UK, including the electronic cigarette and local tobacco brands to meet a broad array of adult tobacco brand ViP.
The financial impact of these transactions to the Group were consumer preferences wherever the Group operates.
The Group is immaterial individually and in aggregate.
investing in building a portfolio of potentially less harmful tobacco and nicotine products alongside its traditional tobacco business including On 21 December 2017, the Group signed an agreement to acquire vapour and tobacco heating products THPs in the Next Generation 100% of the share capital of Twisp Propriety Limited, a South Products NGP category, and, in the oral tobacco and nicotine African e-cigarette nicotine vapour company, for ZAR 635 million products category, products such as snus, tobacco-free nicotine 37.9 million.
Completion of the proposed acquisition is conditional pouches and moist snuff.
Collectively, the Group refers to these upon South African anti-trust clearance, which is expected to be given products as its potentially reduced-risk products.
The Group manages a globally integrated supply chain and its BAT was incorporated in July 1997 under the laws of England products are distributed to retail outlets worldwide.
and Wales as a public limited company and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
History and development of BAT The Group has had a significant global presence in the tobacco Seasonality industry for over 100 years.
BAT Ltd. was incorporated in 1902, when The Groups business segments are not significantly affected by the Imperial Tobacco Company and the American Tobacco Company seasonality although in certain markets cigarette consumption trends agreed to form a joint venture company.
BAT Ltd. inherited companies rise during summer months due to longer daylight time and tourism.
and quickly expanded into major markets, including India and Ceylon, Patents and trademarks Egypt, Malaya, Northern Europe and East Africa.
In 1927, BAT Ltd. Our trademarks, which include the brand names under which our expanded into the US market through its acquisition of B&W.
products are sold, are key assets which we consider, in the aggregate, During the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, the Group diversified its business to be important to the business as a whole.
As well as protecting our under the umbrella of B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. with acquisitions in brand names by way of trademark registration, we also protect our the paper, cosmetics, retail and financial services industries, among innovations by means of patents and designs in key global jurisdictions.
Various business reorganisations followed as the business was eventually refocused on the Groups core cigarette, cigars and tobacco products businesses with BAT becoming a separately listed entity on the LSE in 1998.
In 1999, the Group announced a global merger with Rothmans International, at that time the fourth largest tobacco company in the world.
The Group acquired Imperial Tobacco Canada in 2000, and in 2003 the Group acquired Ente Tabacchi Italiani S. p. A. Italys stateowned tobacco company.
Investments were made in Peru and Serbia in 2003, through the acquisitions of Tabacalera Nacional and Duvanska Industrija Vranje.
In July 2004, the US assets, liabilities and operations, other than certain specified assets and liabilities, of BATs wholly owned subsidiary, B&W, were combined with RJR Tobacco Company.
RAI was formed as a new holding company for these combined businesses.
As a result of the B&W business combination, B&W acquired beneficial ownership of approximately 42% of the RAI shares.
In 2008, the BAT Group acquired Tekel, the Turkish state-owned tobacco company, as well as 100% of the cigarette and snus business of Skandinavisk Tobakskompagni A S. Following the acquisition of its business during 2009, the Group recognised an effective 99% interest in Bentoel in Indonesia.
In 2011, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of Protabaco in Colombia.
In 2012, the Group acquired CN Creative Limited, a UK based start-up company specialising in the development of e-cigarette technologies.
During 2013, the Group entered into joint operations in China and Myanmar.
In 2015, the Group acquired: the shares it did not already own in Souza Cruz: the Blue Nile Cigarette 216 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
