Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets arising 1 Accounting policies in a business combination and the allocation of the purchase Basis of preparation consideration between the underlying net assets acquired, including The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS values.
These estimates are prepared in conjunction with the advice as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, of independent valuation experts where appropriate.
The relevant IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and in accordance transactions for 2017, 2016 and 2015 are described in note 24. with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to The critical accounting judgements include: companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The differences have the definition of adjusting items, which are separately disclosed as no impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements for the memorandum information, is explained below and the impact of periods presented.
these on the calculation of adjusted earnings is described in note7: The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going the determination as to whether control subsidiaries, joint control concern basis under the historical cost convention except as described joint arrangements, or significant influence associates exists in the accounting policy below on financial instruments.
in relation to the investments held by the Group.
This is assessed after taking into account the Groups ability to appoint directors The Group has adopted the Amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash to the entitys board, its relative shareholding compared with Flows with effect from 1 January 2017.
This amendment requires other shareholders, any significant contracts or arrangements with reporting entities to provide disclosures that enable users of financial the entity or its other shareholders and other relevant facts and statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing circumstances: and activities, by disclosing changes arising from cash flows as well as non-cash changes.
These additional disclosures have been added the review of applicable exchange rates for transactions with and tonote 20. translation of entities in territories where there are restrictions on the free access to foreign currency, or multiple exchange rates.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial circumstances and constitute managements best judgement at the statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience the accounting policies below, together with the related notes to may deviate from these estimates and assumptions, which could the accounts.
affect the financial statements as the original estimates and assumptions are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which the The critical accounting estimates include: circumstances change.
the review of asset values, especially goodwill and impairment These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by testing.
The key assumptions used in respect of goodwill and the Board of Directors on 21 February 2018. impairment testing are the determination of cash-generating units, the budgeted cash flows of these units, the long-term growth rate Basis of consolidation for cash flow projections and the rate used to discount the cash flow The consolidated financial information includes the financial projections.
These are described in note 9: statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiary the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
undertakings, collectively the Group, together with the Groups The determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, as share of the results of its associates and joint arrangements.
well as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in other A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
The Group controls comprehensive income, involves judgements made in conjunction an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable with independent actuaries.
These involve estimates about uncertain returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect future events based on the environment in different countries, those returns through its power over the entity.
including life expectancy of scheme members, salary and pension increases, inflation, as well as discount rates and asset values at the Associates comprise investments in undertakings, which are not year end.
The assumptions used by the Group and sensitivity analysis subsidiary undertakings or joint arrangements, where the Groups are described in note 12: interest in the equity capital is long term and over whose operating and financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence.
the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of taxation They are accounted for using the equity method.
and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for liabilities and charges are subject to uncertain future events, may extend Joint arrangements comprise contractual arrangements where two over several years and so the amount and or timing may differ from or more parties have joint control and where decisions regarding current assumptions.
The accounting policy for taxation is explained the relevant activities of the entity require unanimous consent.
The recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together Joint operations are jointly-controlled arrangements where the with a note of unrecognised amounts, are shown in note 13, and a parties to the arrangement have rights to the underlying assets and contingent tax asset is explained in note 6 b.
Other provisions for obligations for the underlying liabilities relating to the arrangement.
liabilities and charges are as set out in note 21.
The accounting policy The Group accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, income on contingent liabilities, which are not provided for, is set out below and expenses of any such arrangement.
Joint ventures comprise and the contingent liabilities of the Group are explained in note 28. arrangements where the parties to the arrangement have rights to The application of these accounting policies to the payments made the net assets of the arrangement.
They are accounted for using the and credits recognised under the Master Settlement Agreement by equity method.
Reynolds American Inc. RAI is described in note 3 d : and 112 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Share-based payments 1 Accounting policies continued The Group has equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Foreign currencies compensation plans.
The functional currency of the Parent Company is sterling and this is also the presentation currency of the Group.
The income and cash flow Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at statements of Group undertakings expressed in currencies other than the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the sterling are translated to sterling using exchange rates applicable to equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting the dates of the underlying transactions.
Average rates of exchange in period, based on the Groups estimate of awards that will eventually each year are used where the average rate approximates the relevant vest.
For plans where vesting conditions are based on total shareholder exchange rate at the date of the underlying transactions.
Assets and returns, the fair value at date of grant reflects these conditions, whereas liabilities of Group undertakings are translated at the applicable rates earnings per share vesting conditions are reflected in the calculation of exchange at the end of each year.
In territories where there are of awards that will eventually vest over the vesting period.
For cashrestrictions on the free access to foreign currency or multiple exchange settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the portion of the rates, the applicable rates of exchange are regularly reviewed.
services received is recognised at its current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is measured by the use of the BlackFor hyperinflationary countries, the financial statements in local Scholes option pricing model, except where vesting is dependent currency are adjusted to reflect the impact of local inflation prior to on market conditions when the Monte-Carlo option pricing model is translation into sterling.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based The differences between retained profits translated at average and on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, closing rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
arising on the retranslation to sterling using closing rates of exchange Research and development of overseas net assets at the beginning of the year, and are presented Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it is as a separate component of equity.
They are recognised in the income incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to income in the year statement when the gain or loss on disposal of a Group undertaking it is incurred, unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38. is recognised.
Taxation Foreign currency transactions are initially recognised in the functional currency of each entity in the Group using the exchange rate ruling at Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting deferred taxation.
from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax foreign currency assets and liabilities at year end rates of exchange are laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity the countries where the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint as qualifying cash flow hedges, on intercompany net investment arrangements operate and generate taxable income.
loans and qualifying net investment hedges.
Foreign exchange gains or losses recognised in the income statement are included in profit Deferred taxation is provided in full using the liability method for from operations or net finance costs depending on the underlying temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and transactions that gave rise to these exchange differences.
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount used for taxation purposes.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent Revenue that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against Revenue principally comprises sales of cigarettes and other tobacco which the asset can be utilised.
Revenue excludes duty, excise and Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted other taxes and is after deducting rebates, returns and other similar or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected discounts.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax of ownership are transferred to a third party.
Retirement benefit costs Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly schemes including post-retirement healthcare schemes.
The net deficit in equity, in which case it is recognised in the statement of other or surplus for each defined benefit pension scheme is calculated in comprehensive income or the statement of changes in equity.
accordance with IAS 19 based on the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a scheme assets adjusted, where appropriate, for any surplus restrictions number of taxes.
Liabilities or assets for these payments or recoveries or the effect of minimum funding requirements.
are recognised at such time as an outcome becomes probable and when the amount can reasonably be estimated.
For defined benefit schemes, the actuarial cost charged to profit from operations consists of current service cost, net interest on the net Goodwill defined benefit liability or asset, past service cost and the impact of Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and any impairment of any settlements.
goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Some benefits are provided through defined contribution schemes and payments to these are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
In respect of associates and joint ventures, goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associated company or joint venture.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 113 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued Impairment of financial assets 1 Accounting policies continued Financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date, or whenever Intangible assets other than goodwill events indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The intangible assets shown on the Group balance sheet consist mainly In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a of trademarks and similar intangibles, including certain intellectual significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment property, acquired by the Groups subsidiary undertakings and below its cost is considered as an indicator that the investment computer software.
Acquired trademarks and similar assets are carried at cost less Inventories accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Trademarks with indefinite Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment.
Cost is based on the weighted average cost incurred in acquiring Other trademarks and similar assets are amortised on a straight-line inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition, basis over their remaining useful lives, consistent with the pattern of which will include raw materials, direct labour and overheads, where economic benefits expected to be received, which do not exceed appropriate.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs 20years.
Any impairments of trademarks are recognised in the income to completion and sale.
Tobacco inventories which have an operating statement but increases in trademark values are not recognised.
cycle that exceeds 12 months are classified as current assets, consistent Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and with recognised industry practice.
impairment, and, with the exception of global software solutions, is Financial instruments amortised on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from three years to five years.
Global software solutions are software assets designed Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the to be implemented on a global basis and used as a standard solution Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant by all of the operating companies in the Group.
These assets are instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such amortised on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding ten years.
Such assets and liabilities are classified as current if they are expected to be realised or settled within 12 months after the balance Property, plant and equipment sheet date.
If not, they are classified as non-current.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation is calculated on a value, plus directly attributable transaction costs where applicable, straight-line basis to write off the assets over their useful economic with subsequent measurement as set out below.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets classified as held-for-sale.
Freehold and leasehold property are depreciated at Non-derivative financial assets are classified on initial recognition as rates between 2.5% and 4% per annum, and plant and equipment available-for-sale investments, loans and receivables or cash and cash at rates between 3% and 25% per annum.
equivalents as follows: Capitalised interest Available-for-sale investments: Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, Available-for-sale investments are those non-derivative financial construction or production of intangible assets or property, plant and assets that cannot be classified as loans and receivables or cash and equipment that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its cash equivalents.
intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
Loans and receivables: Leased assets These are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable Assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards payments that are not quoted in an active market.
of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases and Cash and cash equivalents: are included as part of property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments call, together with other short-term highly liquid investments including at inception of the lease, then depreciated over the shorter of the investments in certain money market funds.
Cash equivalents normally lease term and their estimated useful lives.
Leasing payments consist comprise instruments with maturities of three months or less at date of capital and finance charge elements and the finance element is of acquisition.
In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents charged to the income statement.
are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in the liabilities section on the balance sheet.
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Apart from available-for-sale investments, non-derivative financial assets are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, Impairment of non-financial assets subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate that the amounts.
These estimates for irrecoverable amounts are recognised carrying amount of a cash-generating unit may not be recoverable.
when there is objective evidence that the full amount receivable will In addition, assets that have indefinite useful lives are tested annually not be collected according to the original terms of the asset.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that for-sale investments are stated at fair value, with changes in fair value the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less costs being recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
When such to sell and its value in use.
investments are derecognised e. g. through disposal or become impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets other comprehensive income, are reclassified to the income statement that generates cash flows which are largely independent of the cash within finance income.
Dividend and interest income on availableflows from other assets or groups of assets.
At the acquisition date, for-sale investments are included within finance income when the any goodwill acquired is allocated to the relevant cash-generating Groups right to receive payments is established.
unit or group of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the acquisition for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill.
114 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Derivative fair value changes recognised in the income statement are 1 Accounting policies continued either reflected in arriving at profit from operations if the hedged item Fair values for quoted investments are based on observable market is similarly reflected or in finance costs.
If there is no active market for a financial asset, the fair value is established by using valuation techniques principally involving Dividends discounted cash flow analysis.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the they are approved by shareholders final dividends or declared effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value includes interim dividends.
With effect from 1 January 2018, the Company will accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
move to four interim quarterly dividend payments, with the dividend Derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, and amount announced as part of the Groups Preliminary Announcement.
subsequently measured, at fair value, which includes accrued interest Segmental analysis receivable and payable where relevant.
Changes in their fair values are recognised as follows: The Group is organised and managed on the basis of its geographic regions.
These are the reportable segments for the Group as they for derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, the changes form the focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are in their fair values are recognised directly in other comprehensive the basis used by the chief operating decision maker, identified income, to the extent that they are effective, with the ineffective as the Management Board, for assessing performance and portion being recognised in the income statement.
hedged item results in a non-financial asset, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income, are The Group is primarily a single product business providing cigarettes included in the initial carrying value of the asset basis adjustment and other tobacco products.
While the Group has clearly differentiated and recognised in the income statement in the same periods as the brands, global segmentation between a wide portfolio of brands is not hedged item.
Where the underlying transaction does not result in part of the regular internally reported financial information.
The results such an asset, the accumulated gains and losses are reclassified to the of Next Generation Products are not currently material to the Group.
income statement in the same periods as the hedged item: The prices agreed between Group companies for intra-group sales of for derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges, the carrying materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions, value of the hedged item is adjusted for the fair value changes services and fees, are based on normal commercial practices which attributable to the risk being hedged, with the corresponding entry would apply between independent businesses.
Royalty income, less being made in the income statement.
The changes in fair value of related expenditure, is included in the region in which the licensor these derivatives are also recognised in the income statement: is based.
for derivatives that are designated as hedges of net investments in Adjusting items foreign operations, the changes in their fair values are recognised Adjusting items are significant items of income or expense in directly in other comprehensive income, to the extent that they revenue, profit from operations, net finance costs, taxation and are effective, with the ineffective portion being recognised in the the Groups share of the post-tax results of associates and joint income statement.
Where non-derivatives such as foreign currency ventures which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, are borrowings are designated as net investment hedges, the relevant relevant to an understanding of the Groups underlying financial exchange differences are similarly recognised.
The accumulated gains performance because of their size, nature or incidence.
In identifying and losses are reclassified to the income statement when the foreign and quantifying adjusting items, the Group consistently applies a operation is disposed of: and policy that defines criteria that are required to be met for an item to be classified as adjusting.
These items are separately disclosed in the for derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not segmental analyses or in the notes to the accounts as appropriate.
designated as hedges, the changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The Group believes that these items are useful to users of the Group financial statements in helping them to understand the underlying In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to business performance and are used to derive the Groups principal document prospectively the relationship between the item being non-GAAP measures of adjusted revenue, adjusted profit from hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to operations, adjusted diluted earnings per share, operating cash flow demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged conversion ratio and adjusted cash from operations, all of which are item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will before the impact of adjusting items and which are reconciled from be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is revenue, profit from operations, diluted earnings per share, cash reperformed periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, and conversion ratio and net cash generated from operating activities.
is expected to remain, highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Where the hedged item is a highly probable forecast transaction, the related gains and losses remain in equity until the transaction takes place, when they are reclassified to the income statement in the same manner as for cash flow hedges as described above.
When a hedged future transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related gains and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income, are immediately reclassified to the income statement.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 115 Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 Accounting policies continued This standard was first published in May 2014, and subsequently Provisions amended in April 2016, as the replacement to IAS 18, and the Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive obligation mandatory effective date of implementation is 1 January 2018. as a result of a past event exists at the balance sheet date, it is probable The Group shall apply IFRS 15 with effect from 1 January 2018 with full that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the restatement of prior periods, as permitted by the Standard, to ensure obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of comparability of the income statement across prior periods.
This standard changes the way the Group accounts for rebates, Contingent liabilities and contingent assets discounts or other consideration payable to customers, and Subsidiaries and associate companies are defendants in tobacco-related requires certain payments to indirect customers, currently shown as and other litigation.
Provision for this litigation including legal costs is marketing expenses under IAS 18, to be shown as deductions from made at such time as an unfavourable outcome became probable and revenue.
This would have reduced revenue by 664 million in 2017 the amount can be reasonably estimated.
2016: 618 million, with a corresponding reduction in operating costs.
In addition, due to the timing of the recognition of certain Contingent assets are possible assets whose existence will only be payments to indirect customers, revenue and operating profit for confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the entity the year would have been reduced by a further 64 million had the and are not recognised as assets until the realisation of income is Standard been applied to 2017s results.
IFRS 16 Leases Where a provision has not been recognised, the Group records its This standard was finalised and published in January 2016 with a external legal fees and other external defence costs for tobacco-related mandatory effective date of implementation of 1 January 2019. and other litigation as these costs are incurred.
The distinction between operating leases and finance leases enshrined Repurchase of share capital in current accounting requirements IAS 17 is removed with the effect that virtually all leasing arrangements will be brought on to When share capital is repurchased the amount of consideration paid, the balance sheet as financial obligations and right-to-use assets.
including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction Further due diligence will be carried out before implementation, but from equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares the anticipated impact from restatement on the Groups reported purchased for the employee share ownership trusts, are classified as profit and net assets for 2017 and 2016 is not expected to be treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
material, although assets and liabilities would have been grossed up Future changes to accounting policies by 370 million in 2017 and 282 million in 2016 based on current Certain changes to IFRS will be applicable to the Group financial leasing commitments as disclosed in note 28. statements in future years.
Set out below are those which are IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax treatments considered to be most relevant to the Group.
This interpretation was finalised and published in June 2017 with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments a mandatory effective date of implementation, subject to EU This standard was finalised and published in July 2014 as the endorsement, of 1 January 2019.
The Interpretation clarifies how to replacement for IAS 39.
The Group shall apply IFRS 9 with effect from apply the recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12 when 1 January 2018 with no restatement of prior periods, as permitted there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
In particular, the by the Standard.
The cumulative impact of adopting the Standard, Interpretation addresses whether uncertain tax treatments should be including the effect of tax entries, will be recognised as a restatement considered separately or together with one or more other uncertain of opening reserves in 2018, and is estimated to be 37 million, tax treatments, and addresses the assumptions an entity makes about arising from: how probable it is that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment.
An initial assessment has been carried out and the A change in the classification and measurement of financial assets: The impact on the Groups profit and equity is not expected to be material.
category of available-for-sale investments where fair value changes Further due diligence will be carried out before implementation.
are deferred in reserves until disposal of the investment will be replaced with the category of financial assets at Fair Value through In addition, a number of other interpretations and revisions to Profit and Loss, and the available-for-sale reserve will be reclassified existing standards have been issued which will be applicable to into retained earnings.
In addition, certain loans and receivables the Groups financial statements in future years, but will not have a which do not meet the measurement tests for amortised cost under material effect on reported profit or equity or on the disclosures in the IFRS 9 will be reclassified as financial assets at Fair Value through Profit financial statements.
Impairment of financial assets under the expected loss model: The expected loss model under IFRS 9 accelerates recognition of potential impairment on loans and trade receivables when compared with the incurred loss model under IAS 39.
A simplified lifetime expected loss model is available for balances arising as a result of revenue recognition, by applying a standard rate of provision on initial recognition of trade debtors based upon the Groups historical experience of credit loss, and increasing this provision to take account of overdue receivables.
Applying the requirements of IFRS 9 is expected to result in a decrease of trade and other debtors of 45 million as at 1 January 2018.
The Group will adopt the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 prospectively from 1 January 2018.
116 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
