FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS The financial statements of the Group for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 7March 2018 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by David Wild.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 registration number 03853545.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB.
The Companys Ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the FCA and traded on the Main Market of the LSE.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the period ended 31 December 2017.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 53 weeks ended 31December 2017.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and are prepared using the historical cost basis with the exception of the available-for-sale financial assets, contingent consideration and put option liabilities which are measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Please refer to the Directors report for further details.
Judgements The following judgements have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements: Stores within the Dominos Pizza system contribute into a national advertising fund the Fund designed to build store sales through increased public recognition of the Dominos Pizza brand.
The Fund is managed with the objective of driving revenues for the stores and is planned to operate at break-even with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet for details please see note 18 : as all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition criteria as outlined in our accounting policy are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in the Group income statement.
Management consider any short-term deficits to be recoverable from future fund income: the assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the appropriate headings in the Group balance sheet as the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest with the Group: and the cash flows relating to the Fund are included within Cash generated from operations in the Group statement of cash flows due to the close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
Dominos Pizza Group plc DPG has made a number of acquisitions during the period, with acquisition costs, conversion costs and other associated income and expense items incurred.
Significant impairments and one-off provisions have also been incurred.
These items have been considered by management to meet the definition of non-underlying items as defined by our accounting policy and are therefore shown separately within the financial statements.
Judgement is required to determine that items are suitably classified as non-underlying and the values assigned are appropriate as included in our non-GAAP performance measures policy.
Investments in Nordic associates undertaken during the prior year were treated as associate investments as operational control remained with the original operating management team in the Nordics due to their majority shareholding and voting rights.
During the current year following an increase in the shareholding and voting rights, the judgement has been taken that control has been obtained.
This has been accounted for as a step acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3.
For details please see note 31.
Master Franchise Agreements are held by the Group for the UK, Ireland, Switzerland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
Management have treated these intangible assets as having indefinite lives due to the likelihood of renewal with DPI beyond the current terms without significant cost.
On acquisition of a controlling interest in the London corporate stores, a put option was granted over the remaining shareholding.
A key judgement is the portion that is subject to the put option has been recorded as non-controlling interest as there is uncertainty whether the put option will be exercised.
Certain of the Groups historical share-based compensation arrangements dating from 20032010 involve a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of their employment tax treatment.
HMRC issued protective assessments in respect of potential employment tax relating to these historical schemes but the Group received advice from its tax advisors reconfirming the support for the non-taxable accounting treatment.
During 2017 the Group updated its legal advice following recent decisions by the Supreme Court concerning the taxation of historical remuneration structures.
This was received in January 2018.
As a result of this advice, which includes estimates of the Groups potential employment tax liabilities, a provision has been recorded in these financial statements amounting to 11.0m, comprising 2.6m employers NIC, and 8.4m employees NIC and PAYE, including interest.
82 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued Judgements continued There are numerous uncertainties involved in the calculation of the provision and until the matter has been agreed with HMRC and the beneficiaries, the net impact to the group may differ materially from the current estimate.
In calculating the quantum of the provision a number of significant assumptions were made as follows: While the Company has not been approached by HMRC with a demand to pay any potential tax liabilities in respect of these historical schemes, HMRC have served protective assessments for 36.5m covering employers national insurance contributions, employees national insurance contributions and PAYE.
Our latest legal advice suggests that the full amount covered by the protective assessments isunlikely to be payable as the amounts protected appear to have been determined by calculating tax both on the grant and vesting of the awards received by beneficiaries of the schemes: no further employment tax is due in respect of awards granted to beneficiaries in periods that have not been protected by HMRC and for which the period in which HMRC is entitled to raise an enquiry has expired: and the beneficiaries of the arrangements, which among others include the Chairman and certain former directors and employees, have provided the Group with indemnities to repay to the Group an amount equivalent to their share of future tax liabilities should they crystallise and become payable by the Group to HMRC together with related interest.
Based on the amount of employment tax currently provided, the amount estimated to be demanded from the beneficiaries under the terms of their indemnities equates to the 8.4m employees NIC and PAYE, calculated at the prevailing tax rates at the time, and related interest.
Details in respect of the Chairmans interest in this matter are disclosed within the Directors Report on page 67.
Details in respect of amounts relating to the Chairman, certain former Directors and Key Management Personnel are included within note 37.
As the tax liability has not crystallised, theGroup is not yet entitled to seek recovery of the amounts due under the indemnities.
In view of the probable time scale and potentialuncertainty of recovery of the amounts under indemnities from the beneficiaries, no contingent asset has been recognised inthe financial statements.
We are working with advisors to determine an agreed course of action.
In due course the Company will engage with the beneficiaries with a view to recovering monies under the indemnities.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and assumptions It is necessary for management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following estimates are dependent upon assumptions which could change in the next financial year and have a material effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date: Determining the fair value of consideration, including disposal of associate investments as part of step acquisitions, acquired intangible assets and goodwill acquired in business combinations, requires the use of estimates regarding the value of the associate investments, intangible assets and deferred consideration payable.
Key inputs are managements expectation of business performance and discount rates applied.
For details see notes 7, 29 and 31.
Estimation is required in determining the fair value of any gross liabilities of put options held by non-controlling interests over shareholdings in subsidiary companies.
The put option liability is based on a forecast EBITDA multiple of the respective business during the exercise period, which is the key source of estimation uncertainty.
The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest, inputs which arise from judgements relating to the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees, as detailed in note 32.
Determining the fair value of the Market Access Fee MAF, which relates to the amounts payable by DPE to Dominos Pizza Group plc in future years, requires judgement in the selection of an appropriate valuation input and the profitability assumptions underlying the business case on which the payment of the MAF instalments is based.
The business case valuation applies a discount rate to future cash flows as detailed in note 29.
Basis of consolidation The full year consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up on a 52 or 53-week basis to the Sunday on or before 31 December 2017.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2017.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 83 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 2.
Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation continued Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights results in control.
To support this presumption and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: the contractual arrangement s with the other vote holders the investee: rights arising from other contractual arrangements: and the Groups voting rights and potential voting rights.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of OCI are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity, while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
Discontinued operations In the Groups financial statements, the results and cash flows of discontinued operations are presented separately from those of continuing operations.
An operation is classified as discontinued if it is a component of the Group that i has been disposed of, or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, and ii represents a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations or will be disposed ofas part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations.
The discontinued operations results and cash flows relate to the sale or closure of the Groups directly managed German stores.
Interests in associates and joint ventures The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group has also entered into a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of agreements to share control over other entities and share of rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in determining significant influence on joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
Where the joint venture is established through an interest in a company, the Group recognises its interest in the entities assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The Groups income statement reflects the Groups share of the associate or joint ventures results after tax.
The Group statement of comprehensive income reflects the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the associate or joint venture outside profit and loss.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture are reflected in the statement of other comprehensive income.
Financial statements of associates and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used in line with those of the Group, to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to reflect impairment losses where appropriate.
Adjustments are also made in the Groups financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures.
Foreign currencies The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying spot exchange rates prevailing on the dates ofthe transactions.
At each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on the same date.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historic cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on translation are taken to the income statement, except for exchange differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
84 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies continued On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and are taken directly to a translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at the acquisition-date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
The measurement of non-controlling interest is at the proportionate share of the acquirees net identifiable assets.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration classified as equity is not remeasured and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the statement of profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39.
Other contingent consideration that is not within the scope of IAS 39 is measured at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and, where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criteria are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
When goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation, when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash generating unit retained.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in profit or loss in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
Master franchise fees Master franchise fees are fees paid towards or recognised at fair value on acquisition of the master franchise for the markets in which the Group operates.
These are carried at cost less impairment, and are treated as having indefinite useful lives.
Standard franchise fees Standard franchise fees are recognised at fair value on acquisition of the standard franchise for the area in which corporate stores operate.
As reacquired rights the fees are amortised over the remaining contractual term and are carried at amortised costs.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 85 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 2.
Accounting policies continued Other intangible assets continued Computer software Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised at the cost incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Internally developed computer software programs are capitalised to the extent that costs can be separately identified and attributed to particular software programs, measured reliably, and that the asset developed can be shown to generate future economic benefits.
These assets are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each of the assets, considered to be between three and ten years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Capitalised loan discounts The Group provides interest-free loans to assist franchisees in the opening of new stores.
The difference between the present value of loans recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated via the royalty income and Supply Chain Centre sales that will be generated.
These assets are amortised over the life of a new franchise agreement of ten years.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Property, plant and equipment Construction in progress is stated at cost, net of accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met.
When significant parts of plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives.
Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values, on a straight-line method on the following bases: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold buildings 50 years Assets under construction Not depreciated Leasehold improvements Over the life of the lease Fixtures and fittings Over 5 to 10 years Supply Chain Centre equipment Over 3 to 30 years The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The majority of assets within Supply Chain Centre equipment are being depreciated over ten years or more.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is derecognised.
All items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prepaid operating lease charges Prepaid short leasehold property costs are classified as current and non-current prepayments.
On initial recognition these assets are held at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost over the length of the head lease.
Available-for-sale financial assets The Market Access Fee is classified as an available-for-sale financial asset, initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income except for foreign exchange gains and losses, and impairment, which are recognised in profit or loss.
On disposal of the asset, any changes in value recorded in other comprehensive will be recognised in the profit or loss.
86 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Leases Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest in the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets and the lease term.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free periods, are capitalised and spread over the period of the lease term.
Payments made to acquire operating leases are treated as prepaid lease expenses and amortised over the life of the lease.
Group as lessor Rental income, including the effect of lease incentives, and rent free periods, are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Plant and equipment leased out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Where the Group transfers substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset, the arrangement is classified as a finance lease and a receivable is recognised for the initial direct costs of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance income is recognised in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Impairment of non-financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have seven to 28-day terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when it is likely that the balance will not be recovered in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is considered remote.
The Group provides interest-free loans to assist franchisees in the opening of new stores.
These are initially recorded at fair value, with the difference to the cash advanced capitalised as an intangible asset.
National advertising fund In addition to franchise fees, franchisees pay contributions which are collected by the Group for specific use within the national advertising fund.
The Group operates the funds on behalf of the franchisees with the objective of driving revenues for their stores.
The fund is specifically used to pay for marketing and advertising.
The fund is planned to operate at break-even with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet within working capital.
As all fund contributions are designated for specific purposes and do not result in a profit or loss for the Group, revenue recognition criteria are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the fund are not included in the Group income statement.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 87 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 2.
Accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with amaturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, asdefined above, net of any outstanding bank overdrafts.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases and the accounting bases of assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax is calculated on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or losses can be utilised, with the following exceptions: when the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint arrangements, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or to equity, in which case the income tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax relates to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction on either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events for which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably measured.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, considering the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows if the impact of discounting at a pre-tax rate is material.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Present obligations arising under onerous lease contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist when the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially atfair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
88 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued Pensions The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain staff with defined contribution schemes.
The contributions are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Capital reserve own shares Dominos Pizza Group plc shares held by the Company and its Employee Benefit Trust EBT are classified in shareholders equity as Capital reserve own shares and are recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase or sale of such shares.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration net of returns, rebates and value-added taxes.
Franchisee rebates are recognised as an expense within revenue on an accruals basis on the expected entitlement which has been earned up to the balance sheet date.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Royalties, franchise fees and sales to franchisees Royalties are based on Dominos Pizza system sales to customers and are recognised as the income is earned.
The franchise fee is effectively a joining fee: it is non-refundable and no element of the franchise fee relates to subsequent services.
Revenue from franchisee fees is recognised when a franchisee opens a store for trading.
Revenue from sales to franchisees is recognised on delivery to stores.
Corporate store sales Revenue from pizza delivery is recognised on delivery to customers.
Rental income on leasehold and freehold property Rental income arising from leasehold properties is recognised on a straight-line basis in accordance with the lease terms.
Deferred income compromises lease premiums and rental payments.
Lease premiums are recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Rental payments are deferred and recognised over the period which it relates.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of anasset are capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and otherfinance costs that the Group incurs.
The policy is adopted for all assets that meet the definition of qualifying assets under IAS 23.
Share-based payments The Group provides benefits to employees including Executive Directors in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of the equity-settled transactions ismeasured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair values of employee share option plans are calculated using a Stochastic model for awards with TSR-related performance conditions and a Black-Scholes model for SAYE awards and other awards with EPS-related performance conditions.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions and or service conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Directors best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest on achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vested as described above.
The movement in the cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with the corresponding increase in equity.
When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the grant date fair value of the unmodified award, provided the original terms of the award are met.
An additional expense, measured as at the date of modification, is recognised forany modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 89 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 2.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payments continued Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
This includes anywhere non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share further details are given in note 13.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards so as to apply IFRS 2 only to those equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 3 January 2005.
Non-GAAP performance measures In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain measures that are not required under IFRS.
The Group believes that these additional measures, which are used internally, are useful to the users of the financial statements in helping them understand the underlying business performance, as defined in the key performance indicators section of the strategic report.
The principal non-GAAP measures the Group uses are underlying operating profit, underlying profit before tax, underlying profit for the period from continuing operations underlying earnings per share and system sales.
Underlying measures remove the impact of non-underlying items from earnings and are reconciled to operating profits: system sales measure the performance of the overall business, as defined in the key performance indicators section of the strategic report.
While the disclosure of non-underlying items and system sales is not required by IFRS, these items are separately disclosed either as memorandum information on the face of the income statement and in the segmental analysis, or in the notes to the accounts as appropriate.
Non-underlying items include significant non-recurring items such as acquisition costs, conversion costs of stores acquired, gains and losses on step acquisitions, the recognition of historical share-based payments taxes provision, gains and losses on fair values of financial instruments, impairments and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
These items are not considered to be underlying by management due to quantum and nature.
Factors considered include items that are non-recurring, not part of the ordinary course of business or reduce understandability of business performance.
For a detailed description of items see note 7.
System sales represent the sum of all sales made by both franchisee and corporate stores in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Norway, Iceland, Sweden and Switzerland to consumers.
Adoption of new and revised standards The following standards are effective for this financial year but have not had significant impact on the reported financial performance or position of the Group: Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations: Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation: and Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements.
None of the amendments have an impact on the financial performance of the Group.
New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations that are relevant to the Group, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective.
Effective for periods beginning on or after: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 International Accounting Standards IAS Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017 IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 1 January 2018 90 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied continued IFRS 15 introduces a five-step approach to the timing of revenue recognition based on performance obligations in customer contracts.
TheGroup recognises revenue from the following principal activities: royalties, franchise fees and sales to franchisees: corporate store sales: and rental income on leasehold and freehold property.
Rental income on leasehold and freehold property fall outside of the scope of IFRS 15.
An assessment of the impact of IFRS 15 has been completed on revenues and recognition under IFRS 15 is expected to be materially consistent with current practice for the Groups revenue.
Had the principles of IFRS 15 been applied in the current reporting period, it would not have had a significant impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 16, replacing IAS 17, provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise right of use assets and lease liabilities for all applicable leases.
IFRS 16 is expected to have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
On adoption of IFRS 16 the Group will recognise within the balance sheet a right of use asset and lease liability for all applicable leases.
Within the income statement, rent expense will be replaced by depreciation and interest expense.
This will result in a decrease in cost of sales and an increase in finance costs.
Where the Group operates as lessor the rental income will continue to be recognised on the same basis.
The Group operates as intermediate lessor for a significant proportion of its leases.
Where the sublease is substantially all of the right of use head lease, the right of use asset will be derecognised and recorded as a lease receivable, with interest income recognised in the income statement.
Where the sublease is not substantially all of the right of use head lease, but management judges that it is likely the sublease will be renewed to become substantially all of the right of use asset then the same treatment will be applied.
This will result in lease receivables and lease liabilities being recorded on the balance sheet with interest income expense recognised separately in the income statement, replacing revenue and cost of sales.
The standard will also impact a number of statutory measures such as operating profit and cash generated from operations, and alternative performance measures used by the Group.
The full impact of IFRS 16 is currently under review, including understanding the practical application of the principles of the standard.
It is therefore not practical to provide a reasonable estimate of the financial effect until this review is complete.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39, covering the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, together with a new hedge accounting model and the new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment.
An initial assessment indicates that the adoption of IFRS 9 will not have a material impact on its consolidated results and financial position.
The Market Access Fee, relating to the underlying performance of the associate Daytona JV Limited is currently classified as an .
On adoption of IFRS 9 this has been assessed as a derivative instrument with subsequent changes in fair value recognised through profit or loss.
The following standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the financial statements of the Group: Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 3.
Revenue Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Royalties, franchise fees and sales to franchisees 374.9 326.5 Corporate store sales 75.5 15.6 Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 24.2 18.5 474.6 360.6 Discontinued operations Royalties, franchise fees and sales to franchisees 1.0 Corporate store sales 0.8 474.6 362.4 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 91 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 4.
Segmental information For management purposes, the Group changed how it viewed its segments due to acquisitions made in the period.
The Group is now organised into two geographical business units based on the operating models of the regions: the United Kingdom and Ireland operating more mature markets with a sub-franchise model and limited corporate stores, and International whose markets are at an earlier stage of development and which operate predominantly as corporate stores.
The International segment includes Switzerland, Germany, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
These are considered to be the Groups operating segments as the information provided to the chief operating decision makers, who are considered to be the Executive Directors of the Board, is based on these territories.
Revenue included in each includes all sales royalties, sales to franchisees and rental income made to franchise stores and by corporate stores located in that segment.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss.
Group financing including finance costs and finance revenue and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
The comparative segment disclosures have been updated to reflect these changes.
Unallocated assets include cash and cash equivalents and taxation assets.
Unallocated liabilities include the share buyback obligation, bank revolving facility and taxation liabilities.
At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Deferred tax asset 8.3 6.1 Cash and cash equivalents 29.0 23.1 Unallocated assets 37.3 29.2 Current tax liabilities 8.2 6.2 Deferred tax liabilities 7.8 0.4 Bank revolving facility 113.9 56.7 Share buyback obligation 18.3 10.0 Unallocated liabilities 148.2 73.3 92 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 4.
Segmental information continued Operating segments 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 International UK & Ireland Total International UK & Ireland Total m m m m m m Revenue Sales to external customers 73.0 401.6 474.6 15.6 345.0 360.6 Segment revenue 73.0 401.6 474.6 15.6 345.0 360.6 Results Underlying segment result 0.7 92.7 92.0 1.3 84.3 83.0 Non-underlying items 6.4 14.0 20.4 3.1 3.1 Underlying share of profit of associates and joint ventures 1.5 2.4 3.9 1.0 2.1 3.1 Group operating profit 5.6 81.1 75.5 3.4 86.4 83.0 Net gain on step acquisition of foreign operation 5.8 Net finance costs 0.1 0.5 Profit before taxation 81.2 82.5 Taxation 14.4 17.3 Loss profit for the period from discontinued operations 0.2 6.6 Profit for the year 66.6 71.8 Other segment information Depreciation 4.9 4.1 9.0 1.5 3.4 4.9 Amortisation 0.5 4.9 5.4 2.7 2.7 Share-based payment charge 0.1 1.6 1.7 0.1 2.1 2.2 Entity-wide disclosures Royalties, franchise fees, sales to franchisees and corporate store income 73.0 377.4 450.4 15.6 326.5 342.1 Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 24.2 24.2 18.5 18.5 73.0 401.6 474.6 15.6 345.0 360.6 Segment assets Segment current assets 6.6 54.0 60.6 1.1 51.0 52.1 Segment non-current assets 70.7 183.6 254.3 23.3 84.7 108.0 Equity accounted investments investment in associates 14.2 13.2 27.4 46.8 11.9 58.7 Assets relating to discontinued operations 1.3 8.3 Unallocated assets 37.3 29.3 Total assets 91.5 250.8 380.9 71.2 147.6 256.4 Segment liabilities Liabilities 18.6 146.5 165.1 3.9 69.1 73.0 Liabilities relating to discontinued operations 2.9 2.9 Unallocated liabilities 148.2 73.3 Total liabilities 18.6 146.5 316.2 3.9 69.1 149.2 Revenue from external customers is made up of sales from corporate stores to the public and sales to non-corporate stores.
Major customers Annual revenue from two franchisees amounted to 84.7m 2016: 76.9m and 71.3m 2016: 67.4m respectively, arising from sales reported in the UK and Ireland segment.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 93 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 5.
Group operating profit This is stated after charging: Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 53 weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks 52 weeks ended 31 ended 25 ended 31 ended 25 ended 31 ended 25 December December December December December December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9.0 4.9 9.0 4.9 Amortisation of prepaid lease charges 0.7 0.3 0.7 0.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.4 2.4 5.4 2.4 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 15.1 7.6 15.1 7.6 Operating lease payments minimumleasepayments Land and buildings 28.3 20.3 28.3 20.3 Plant, machinery and vehicles 4.2 2.7 4.2 2.7 Total operating lease payments recognised in the income statement 32.5 23.0 32.5 23.0 Impairment loss recognised on non-current assets 2.0 2.0 Net foreign currency gain 0.6 0.6 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 185.2 149.2 0.4 185.2 149.8 Loss gain on disposal of non-current assets 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.2 Gain on acquisition of foreign operation 5.8 5.8 6.
Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended 31 ended 25 December December 2017 2016 m m Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Group and Company annual accounts 0.3 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the accounts of subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Total audit fees 0.5 0.5 Other services 0.1 0.1 Total audit and non-audit fees 0.6 0.6 Of which 6,600 2016: 6,600 relates to the Company.
94 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 7.
Items excluded from non-GAAP measures: Non-underlying items included in financial statements 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 Before nonNon-underlying Before nonNon-underlying underlying items items Total underlying items items Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 474.6 474.6 360.6 360.6 Cost of sales 280.7 280.7 215.7 215.7 Gross profit 193.9 193.9 144.9 144.9 Other operating costs 101.9 19.7 121.6 61.7 61.7 92.0 19.7 72.3 83.1 83.1 Share of post-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 3.9 0.7 3.2 3.1 3.2 0.1 Operating profit 95.9 20.4 75.5 86.2 3.2 83.0 Net gain on step acquisition of foreign operations 5.8 5.8 Profit before interest and taxation 95.9 14.6 81.3 86.2 3.2 83.0 Finance income 1.8 1.8 0.7 0.7 Finance expense 1.5 0.4 1.9 1.2 1.2 Profit before taxation 96.2 15.0 81.2 85.7 3.2 82.5 Taxation 17.5 3.1 14.4 17.3 17.3 Profit for the period from continuing operations 78.7 11.9 66.8 68.4 3.2 65.2 Discontinued operations Profit for the period from discontinued operations 0.2 0.2 6.0 0.6 6.6 Profit for the period 78.5 11.9 66.6 74.4 2.6 71.8 Profit attributable to: -Equity holders of the parent 78.0 10.5 67.5 74.4 2.6 71.8 -Non-controlling interests 0.5 1.4 0.9 Profit for the period 78.5 11.9 66.6 74.4 2.6 71.8 Reversionary share plan 11.0 m A provision for employment taxes has been recorded in the year see note 2.
The related expense of 11.0m has been included in the compensation to current and former members of the senior management team.
The amounts are presented gross and do not reflect future recoveries of the expense from certain members of the senior management team.
Items relating to acquisitions 0.5m Acquisition and associated costs of 2.2m have been incurred relating to legal and professional fees on acquisition of controlling shareholdings in Icelandic, Norwegian and Swedish associated undertakings, Dolly Dimples in Norway and London corporate stores.
Refer to note 31 for details.
Also included are fees incurred for the acquisition of a further shareholding in the Iceland Dominos operation.
On the step acquisition of the Icelandic, Norwegian and Swedish associated undertakings the deemed disposal of the equity investments at fair value resulted in a charge of 0.8m.
Amounts recycled from the translation reserve amounted to a gain of 6.6m.
Store conversion costs of 2.7m have been recognised in relation to the Dolly Dimples stores, which are being converted to Dominos as required under the Master Franchise Agreement MFA held with DPI.
On acquisition and consolidation of Pizza Pizza EHF and DP Norway AS DPN, formerly Pizza Pizza Norway AS and the subsequent hive out of PPS Foods AB the put options held by the non-controlling shareholders over their shares were recognised at the present value of the gross obligation.
The underlying assets are denominated in foreign currencies, and the foreign exchange movement in the period has given rise to a reduction in liability of 0.2m.
Non-underlying foreign exchange losses of 0.6m relating to the acquisition of Pizza Pizza EHF were incurred during the period.
These two items are recognised under finance expense.
Impairment and non-underlying amortisation and depreciation 3.8 m Impairment of property, plant and equipment of 2.0m relates to impairment to recoverable value for assets no longer used for operating purposes.
Accelerated depreciation of 1.2m and amortisation of 0.4m have been recognised against Dolly Dimples fixtures and fitting and the brand as the store conversion programme to Dominos branded stores progresses.
An additional 0.2m relates to the amortisation of the SFA recognised on acquisition of the London corporate stores.
Joint venture store conversion 0.7 m Acquisition and store network conversion costs of 0.7m relate to the rebranding and associated costs to execute the conversion of the Joeys Pizza stores to comply with Dominos international brand standards in relation to support for franchisee store fit-outs and other costs.
These costs are considered non-underlying as they are one-off charges that would not give an accurate reflection of the Groups profit were they to be included in underlying profit.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 95 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 7.
Items excluded from non-GAAP measures: continued Non-underlying tax 3.1m The tax credit of 3.1m relates to the non-underlying expenses.
The non-underlying items in the year have resulted in a net cash outflow of 5.1m.
Employee benefits and Directors remuneration a Employee benefits expense 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Wages and salaries 53.3 35.3 Social security costs 16.3 3.2 Other pension costs 2.0 0.7 Share-based payment charge 1.7 2.2 73.3 41.4 Of the above employee costs 73.3m 2016: 41.0m relates to continuing operations.
Included within Social security costs are 11.0m of costs in respect of historic share based remuneration schemes, as further detailed in note 2.
For details of amounts relating to current and former Directors, refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 and 59.
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 Administration 330 308 Production and distribution 450 334 Corporate stores 969 353 1,749 995 Continuing operations 1,749 911 Discontinued operations 84 1,749 995 b Directors remuneration 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Directors remuneration 1.9 1.7 Aggregate contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 0.1 0.1 Number of Directors accruing benefits under: defined contribution schemes 2 3 Additional information regarding Directors remuneration is included in the Directors remuneration report on pages 46 to 64.
Finance income 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Bank interest receivable 0.1 Other interest receivable 0.3 Interest on loans to associates and joint ventures 0.5 0.3 Foreign exchange 1.0 0.3 Total finance income 1.8 0.7 96 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 10.
Finance costs 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Bank revolving credit facility interest payable 1.9 1.0 Other interest payable 0.2 Total finance costs 1.9 1.2 The finance expense relates to financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Total interest on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, including loan costs related to finance for franchisee capital development reported within cost of sales, is 1.9m 2016: 1.2m.
Taxation a Tax on profit on ordinary activities Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 53 weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended ended ended ended ended 31 December 25 December 31 December 25 December 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Tax charged in the income statement Current income tax: UK corporation tax: current period 15.5 15.5 0.2 1.8 15.7 17.3 adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.7 0.3 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.1 14.8 15.8 0.4 1.4 15.2 17.2 Income tax on overseas operations 1.6 0.6 0.9 1.6 1.5 Total current income tax charge credit 16.4 16.4 0.4 2.3 16.8 18.7 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.2 0.6 0.3 2.2 0.9 Effect of change in tax rate 0.5 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.4 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.3 0.3 Total deferred tax 2.0 0.9 0.4 2.0 1.3 Tax charge in the income statement 14.4 17.3 0.4 2.7 14.8 20.0 The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows: Income tax expense 14.4 17.3 0.4 2.7 14.8 20.0 Tax relating to items credited charged to equity Reduction in current tax liability as a result of the exercise of share options 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.6 Origination and reversal of temporary differences in relation to unexercised share options 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.5 Tax credit in the Group statement of changes in equity 0.5 0.1 0.5 0.1 There is no tax impact in relation to the foreign exchange differences in the statement of comprehensive income.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 97 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 11.
Taxation continued b Reconciliation of the total tax charge The tax expense in the income statement for the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 is lower 2016: higher than the statutory corporation tax rate of 19.26% 2016: 20.00%.
The differences are reconciled below: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Profit before taxation on continuing operations 81.2 82.5 Profit before taxation on discontinued operations 0.2 9.4 Profit before taxation 81.4 91.9 Accounting profit multiplied by the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 19.26% 2016: 20.00% 15.7 18.4 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.0 0.6 Income not taxable 1.4 Share of JV and associates results not taxable 0.6 Accounting depreciation not eligible for tax purposes 0.3 0.1 Adjustments relating to prior years 1.1 Impact of other tax reliefs 0.1 Overseas losses carried forward 0.1 0.3 Other 0.4 Tax rate differences 0.7 0.4 Total tax expense reported in the income statement 14.8 20.0 Income tax attributable to continuing operations 14.4 17.3 Income tax attributable to a discontinued operation 0.4 2.7 14.8 20.0 Effective tax rate continuing and discontinued operations % 18.2 21.9 Underlying effective tax rate continuing operations % 18.3 20.3 At Budget 2016, the government announced a further reduction to the Corporation Tax main rate, which will have an effect on the Groups current and future tax position.
For the year starting 1 April 2020, the Corporation Tax main rate will be set at 17%.
As a result, the relevant deferred tax balances have been remeasured as appropriate.
c Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 31 December 2017, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2016: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the Groups subsidiaries, or its associates, as there are no corporation tax consequences of the Groups UK, Irish or overseas subsidiaries or associates paying dividends to their parent companies.
There are also no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
d Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items 6.2 5.4 Deferred tax arising in the UK and ROI on capital gains 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax arising on other overseas subsidiaries 0.4 0.4 Deferred tax arising on overseas losses 3.3 Deferred tax arising on business combinations 8.5 Deferred tax on continuing operations 0.5 5.7 Represented as: Deferred tax asset 8.3 6.1 Deferred tax liabilities 7.8 0.4 0.5 5.7 98 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 11.
Taxation continued d Deferred tax continued At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Gross movement in the deferred income tax account Opening balance 5.7 7.6 Liability at acquisition of subsidiaries 7.0 Tax credit debit to equity 0.1 0.5 Income statement charge credit 2.0 1.4 Foreign exchange movements 0.3 Closing balance 0.5 5.7 Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items Accelerated Share-based capital Lease Reversionary payments allowances inducements Provisions interests Total m m m m m m At 27 December 2015 1.8 5.2 0.2 0.2 7.4 Debit to equity 0.5 0.5 Credit charge to income 0.5 2.2 0.2 1.5 At 25 December 2016 1.8 3.0 0.2 0.4 5.4 Asset at acquisition of subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Debit to equity 0.1 0.1 Credit charge to income 0.2 1.4 0.1 0.2 1.9 0.4 At 31 December 2017 2.1 1.6 0.1 0.5 1.9 6.2 A deferred tax asset of 6.2m 2016: 5.4m has been recognised on continuing operations to the extent that future taxable profits are expected to be in excess of the profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
The Group has tax losses of 6.3m 2016: 9.3m which arose in relation to the Swiss business and are available to offset against future taxable profits in Switzerland.
A deferred tax asset of 1.1m 2016: 0.7m has been recognised in relation to these taxable losses in Switzerland on the basis they are expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future.
The Group has tax losses of 9.5m 2016: nil which arose in relation to the Nordic businesses and are available to offset against future taxable profits in Norway and Sweden.
A deferred tax asset of 2.2m 2016: nil has been recognised in relation to these taxable losses in Norway and Sweden on the basis they are expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future.
Taxable losses that have arisen in the period in the German branch of Dominos Pizza Germany Limited are available to surrender as Group relief to the UK Group and have been fully utilised.
Discontinued operations In December 2015, the Group agreed terms to dispose of the German operations and to enter a strategic associate arrangement with Dominos Pizza Enterprises DPE, by setting up a new entity, Daytona JV Limited Daytona, to be owned one-third by Dominos and two-thirds by DPE.
Daytona owns the master franchise rights for the Dominos brand in Germany and also acquired an existing German pizza chain, Joeys Pizza.
Consideration for the disposal included a Market Access Fee MAF of up to 25.0m 21.2m.
MAF payable by DPE to Dominos Pizza Group plc is deferred consideration for the Company divesting its interest in operating Dominos Pizza stores in Germany and its exclusive access to the German market.
The MAF is payable in instalments, which become due annually up to six years from the date of the transaction.
The payment of each instalment is determined by reference to Daytona achieving defined performance levels each calendar year.
The amount included as consideration for the MAF is its estimated fair value, based on managements evaluation of future underlying profitability.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 99 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 12.
Discontinued operations continued The results of the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Revenue 1.4 Expenses underlying 0.2 2.3 Underlying profit loss before tax 0.2 0.9 Income non-underlying 2.1 Gain on disposal 8.1 Profit before tax 0.2 9.3 Attributable tax charge 0.4 2.7 Net loss gain attributable to discontinued operations attributable to owners of the Company 0.2 6.6 During the year, the discontinued operation decreased the Groups net cash flows by 0.7m 2016: increased by 1.4m and received nil 2016: 1.3m in respect of investing activities.
Within the tax charge of 0.4m 2016: 2.7m is a tax charge of nil 2016: 1.6m relating to the gain on disposal of nil 2016: 8.1m.
Non-underlying income in 2016 relates to the release of provision.
The gain on disposal in 2016 relates to the recognition of the fair value of the MAF.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary shares that would have been issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares into Ordinary shares.
Earnings 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations Notes m m Profit attributable to owners of the parent 67.7 65.2 Non-underlying items Included in operating profit 7 19.7 Amounts included within share of post-tax result of associates and joint ventures 7 0.7 3.1 Net gain on step acquisition of foreign operations 7 5.8 Net finance costs 7 0.4 Tax 7 3.1 Attributable on non-controlling interests 1.4 Underlying profit attributable to owners of the parent 78.2 68.3 Continuing and discontinued operations Continuing operations profit attributable to owners of the parent 67.7 65.2 Discontinued operations loss profit attributable to owners of the parent 0.2 6.6 Total profit attributable to owners of the parent 67.5 71.8 100 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 13.
Earnings per share continued Weighted average number of shares At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 Number Number Basic weighted average number of shares excluding treasury shares 489,375,873 496,496,866 Dilutive effect of share options and awards 6,690,858 7,453,287 Diluted weighted average number of shares 496,066,731 503,950,153 The performance conditions relating to share options granted over 2,041,160 shares 2016: 2,380,181 have not been met in the current financial period and therefore the dilutive effect of the number of shares which would have been issued at the period end has not been included in the diluted earnings per share calculation.
There are no share options excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because they would be antidilutive 2016: nil.
See note 32 for further information on reversionary interests and share options.
Earnings per share 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December Continuing operations 2017 2016 Basic earnings per share 13.8p 13.1p Diluted earnings per share 13.6p 12.9p Underlying earnings per share: Basic earnings per share 16.0p 13.8p Diluted earnings per share 15.8p 13.6p Discontinued operations Basic profits losses per share 1.3p Diluted profits losses per share 1.3p Continuing and discontinued operations Basic earnings per share 13.8p 14.5p Diluted earnings per share 13.6p 14.3p 14.
Dividends paid and proposed 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Declared and paid during the year: Equity dividends on Ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2016: 4.50p 2015: 3.92p 22.0 19.5 Interim dividend for 2017: 3.75p 2016: 3.50p 18.4 17.5 Dividends paid 40.4 37.0 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM not recognised as a liability at 31 December 2017 or 25 December 2016 Final dividend for 2017: 5.25p 2016: 4.50p 25.2 22.0 Dividends per share in the comparative period have been restated to reflect the sub-division of shares in the prior year.
Refer to note 30 for more information.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 101 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 15.
Intangible assets Franchise Goodwill fees Software Other Total m m m m m Cost or valuation At 27 December 2015 1.6 13.7 17.9 0.5 33.7 Additions 8.4 8.4 Disposals 9.8 1.9 11.7 Foreign exchange on translation 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.8 At 25 December 2016 1.9 4.3 24.5 0.5 31.2 Additions 6.4 0.3 6.7 Acquisitions 47.8 44.9 1.9 94.6 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Foreign exchange on translation 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2017 49.7 49.5 30.7 2.7 132.6 Amortisation and impairment At 27 December 2015 11.3 10.2 0.2 21.7 Provided during the year 2.5 2.5 Disposals 9.8 1.6 11.4 Foreign exchange on translation 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 25 December 2016 1.6 11.2 0.2 13.0 Provided during the year 0.2 4.8 0.4 5.4 Disposals Foreign exchange on translation At 31 December 2017 1.8 16.0 0.6 18.4 Net book value at 31 December 2017 49.7 47.7 14.7 2.1 114.2 Net book value at 25 December 2016 1.9 2.7 13.3 0.3 18.2 During the period the Group made a number of acquisitions, recognising intangible assets at fair value and goodwill at cost.
Intangible assets recognised include the Master Franchise Agreements for Iceland, Norway and Sweden and the Standard Franchise Agreement for the London corporate stores.
The carrying amount of goodwill and indefinite life intangibles has been allocated as follows: At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Goodwill Switzerland 1.8 1.9 Norway 5.3 Sweden 3.7 Iceland 12.4 UK corporate stores 26.5 49.7 1.9 Indefinite life intangibles Switzerland 2.7 2.7 Norway 10.2 Sweden 9.6 Iceland 22.1 44.6 2.7 94.3 4.6 UK and international investments The Group is obliged to test goodwill and indefinite life intangibles annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill and indefinite life intangibles might be impaired, due to the goodwill deemed to have an indefinite useful life.
In order to perform this test, management is required to compare the carrying value of the relevant cash generating unit CGU including the goodwill with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amounts of the CGU are determined from a value in use calculation.
The key assumptions for the valuation are those regarding discount rates and expected changes to the level of sales in stores.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU.
102 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 15.
Intangible assets continued UK and international investments continued Growth rates are based on market growth forecasts.
Changes in levels of AWUS average weekly unit sales are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years and extrapolates terminal value cash flows based on the average long-term growth rates which do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant market.
The long-term growth rate and the rate used to discount the forecast cash flows from the CGUs are in the table below: Long-term growth rate Discount rate At At At At 31 December 25 December 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 Switzerland 1.5% 1.5% 10.0% 10.0% Norway 1.5% 12.0% Sweden 3.0% 12.0% Iceland 4.0% 10.4% UK corporate stores 1.5% 9.0% The Group has also conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the CGU carrying value including reducing sales growth and changing discount rates.
In respect of the international market CGUs, no reasonably expected change would give rise to an impairment charge.
Master franchise fees Master franchise fees consist of costs relating to the MFA for the UK, Ireland, Switzerland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
Each MFA is treated as having an indefinite life.
They are tested annually for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
The Swiss, Norwegian, Swedish and Icelandic MFAs have been tested as described in the goodwill section.
The UK and Ireland assumptions are not disclosed as the value is not material.
Standard franchise agreement The SFA has been recognised at fair value on acquisition of London corporate stores.
As a reacquired asset, this has been calculated over the remaining contractual term, and will be amortised over that period.
The net book value at 31 December 2017 is 4.3m.
The amortisation of intangible assets is included within administration expenses in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold Assets Fixtures Supply Chain land and under Leasehold and Centre buildings construction Improvements fittings equipment Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 27 December 2015 33.4 1.8 5.5 6.0 32.9 79.6 Additions 0.8 7.6 2.6 0.7 2.6 14.3 Reclassification 0.9 0.9 Disposals 0.1 0.8 1.7 0.3 2.9 Foreign exchange on translation 0.2 0.1 1.0 0.2 0.3 1.8 At 25 December 2016 34.4 8.5 8.3 5.2 36.4 92.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2.7 8.8 0.3 11.8 Additions 28.9 2.7 3.8 2.7 38.1 Disposals 2.7 6.6 9.3 Transfer to assets held for sale 1.2 1.2 Foreign exchange on translation 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.2 0.4 At 31 December 2017 34.5 36.3 13.2 14.9 32.8 131.7 Depreciation and impairment At 27 December 2015 5.6 0.7 3.8 10.9 21.0 Provided during the year 0.6 1.1 0.7 2.5 4.9 Disposals 0.1 1.0 0.3 1.4 Foreign exchange on translation 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.5 At 25 December 2016 6.2 1.9 3.7 13.2 25.0 Provided during the year 0.6 3.0 3.5 1.9 9.0 Impairment 1.2 0.8 2.0 Disposals 2.6 6.2 8.8 Transfer to asset held for sale 1.2 1.2 Foreign exchange on translation 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2017 6.8 5.5 4.5 9.0 25.8 Net book value at 31 December 2017 27.7 36.3 7.7 10.4 23.8 105.9 Net book value at 25 December 2016 28.2 8.5 6.4 1.5 23.2 67.8 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 103 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 16.
Property, plant and equipment continued During the period the Group made a number of acquisitions, recognising assets at fair value.
Assets acquired mainly consist of store fixtures for Iceland, Norway, Sweden and the London corporate stores.
Freehold land and buildings Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of 4.7m 2016: 4.7m in respect of land which is not depreciated.
Capitalised financing costs Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of 1.1m 2016: 1.0m of capitalised financing costs relating to the revolving credit facility used to finance the building of the new Supply Chain Centre.
Tax relief on capitalised interest is claimed in full in the period in which the interest is paid.
For details of property, plant and equipment pledged as security for liabilities see note 24.
Prepaid operating lease charges At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Balance at the beginning of the period 0.9 1.2 Additions 3.3 Amortisation 0.7 0.4 Balance at the end of the period 3.5 0.8 Analysed as follows: Non-current assets 3.5 0.8 3.5 0.8 Additions comprised interest free loans granted to franchisees.
Trade and other receivables Included in non-current assets: At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 13.1 11.5 Loans to franchisees 3.0 0.2 Other receivables 9.1 9.3 25.2 21.0 Financial assets at amortised cost.
Included in current assets: At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Trade receivables 13.5 12.5 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 1.9 3.2 Loans to franchisees 0.2 1.2 Other receivables 13.7 9.3 Prepayments 10.8 12.4 Accrued income 8.6 3.8 48.7 42.4 Financial assets at amortised cost.
Included in current other receivables are balances due from franchisees for development of new stores of 5.7m 2016: 5.6m.
Included in non-current other receivables are rent-free balances provided to franchises of 9.0m 2016: 8.2m.
Included in the current element of other receivables is the national advertising fund NAF balance of 3.9m 2016: 1.9m payable due to the difference in timing between cash flows of the marketing activities committed to by the fund and contributions received from franchisees.
Total contributions made to the fund during the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 were 46.8m 2016: 41.5m.
104 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 18.
Trade and other receivables continued Trade receivables Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Sterling 10.5 10.5 Euro 0.8 1.8 Swiss franc 0.4 0.2 Icelandic krona 0.2 Norwegian krone 1.0 Swedish krona 0.6 13.5 12.5 The Euro-denominated receivables relate to franchisee receivables within the Groups Irish operations, the functional currency of which is the Euro.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on seven to 28 day terms.
As at 31 December 2017, trade receivables at nominal value of 0.4m 2016: 0.2m were provided for.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Neither Past due but not impaired past due nor Total impaired 30 days 30 days m m m m At 31 December 2017 13.5 12.4 0.2 1.9 At 25 December 2016 12.5 9.9 2.1 0.5 Loans to franchisees Loans to franchisees are repayable within one to five years.
The loans are either interest free or bear interest on a quarterly basis at an average of 3.0% above LIBOR and are repaid in monthly or quarterly instalments.
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Amounts owed by associates 14.0 13.6 Amounts owed by joint ventures 1.0 1.1 15.0 14.7 Included within the balance due from associates are loan balances totalling 0.9m 2016: 0.3m due from Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited and 13.2m 2016: 11.5m due from Daytona JV Limited.
Included within the balance due from joint ventures are loan balances of 0.7m due from DP Shayban Limited 2016: 0.4m and 0.3m due from Dominos Pizza West Country Limited 2016: 0.2m.
The terms of the loans to Full House and the joint ventures are consistent with the loan terms provided to franchisees see above.
The remainder of the balance due from associates and joint ventures represents trading balances.
An analysis is provided below of the movement in trading and loan balances with associates and joint ventures: Trading Loan balance balance Total m m m At 27 December 2015 0.8 1.4 2.2 Movement in trading balance 1.5 1.5 Movement in loan balance 11.0 11.0 At 25 December 2016 2.3 12.4 14.7 Movement in trading balance 0.4 0.4 Movement in loan balance 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2017 1.9 13.1 15.0 The movement in the trading balance is included within the increase in receivables in cash generated from operations in the cash flow statement.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 105 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 19.
Finance leases The balance shown in franchisee leasing consists of leases over store equipment granted to franchisees on terms of between one and five years bearing interest at fixed rates of an average of 2.8% 2016: 5.8%.
At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Net investment in finance leases 1.4 0.8 Analysis of net investment in finance leases Non-current 0.5 0.2 Current 0.9 0.6 1.4 0.8 Future minimum payments receivable: At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Not later than one year 0.9 0.6 After one year but not more than five years 0.5 0.2 1.4 0.8 20.
Investments in associates and joint ventures At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Investment in associates Balance as at 25 December 2016 52.5 1.9 Share of post-tax retained profits losses 1.6 1.5 Investments in associates 43.9 Deemed disposal on step acquisition 33.9 Foreign exchange movements 0.6 8.2 Investment in associates at 31 December 2017 20.8 52.5 Investment in joint ventures Balance as at 25 December 2016 6.3 6.1 Share of post-tax retained profits 0.2 0.2 Investment in joint ventures at 31 December 2017 6.5 6.3 Total investment in associates and joint ventures 27.3 58.8 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 2017 2016 m m Share of post-tax profits of associates Full House Restaurant Holdings Limited 1.9 1.3 Daytona JV Limited 0.7 2.4 Pizza Pizza EHF Iceland 0.5 0.9 PPS Foods AS Sweden 0.1 0.2 DP Norway AS 0.3 0.5 2.7 0.9 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures DP Shayban 0.3 0.1 West Country 0.2 0.7 0.5 0.8 3.2 0.1 106 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 20.
Investments in associates and joint ventures continued a Investment in associates On 5 August 2016 the Group increased its stake to a 49% interest in Full House Restaurants Holdings Limited, a private company that manages pizza delivery stores in the UK, with a cost of investment of 3.1m.
On 1 February 2016 the Group made a 33.3% investment in Daytona JV Limited, a UK incorporated Company which owns the Master Franchise Agreement for Dominos Germany, with a cost of investment of 13.8m.
The Group has a put option over its interest in Daytona which can be exercised at any time after the financial year ending 31 December 2020 and Dominos Pizza Enterprises, the majority shareholder in Daytona JV Limited, has a call option over the Groups interest which can be exercised at any time after the financial year ending 31December 2021.
The consideration payable upon exercise of either the put option or the call option will be based on an enterprise value determined from the capitalisation of future adjusted underlying EBITDA at an agreed multiple of between ten and 12 times.
On 19 April 2017 the Group acquired a controlling interest in the Nordic associates.
From this date results have been consolidated in full with a deemed disposal of 33.9m resulting in a net gain of 5.8m.
The interests are accounted for as associates, using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements, as the Group has significant influence over each of its investments, but does not control the entity or have joint control.
Summarised financial information for the associates is set out below: Full House Restaurant Holdings Limited At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 000 000 Summary of associates balance sheet: Current assets 3.4 3.4 Non-current assets 16.2 16.9 Current liabilities 5.4 7.0 Non-current liabilities 5.2 6.4 Net assets 9.0 6.9 The Groups share of interest in associated undertakings net assets 4.4 3.4 Goodwill and transaction costs 2.3 2.3 Groups carrying amount of the investment 6.7 5.7 The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments at 31 December 2017 or at 25 December 2016.
The associate requires the parents consent to distribute its profits.
53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Summary of associates revenue and profit Revenue 44.4 40.1 Profit after tax for the year 4.0 2.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 4.0 2.9 Groups share of profit for the year 1.9 1.3 Dividends received from the associate during the year 1.0 0.6 Daytona JV Limited At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Summary of associates balance sheet Current assets 6.8 7.5 Non-current assets 94.0 89.8 Current liabilities 5.5 8.4 Non-current liabilities 59.0 56.3 Net assets 36.3 32.6 Groups share of interest in associated undertakings net assets 12.1 10.9 Transaction costs 2.0 2.0 Groups carrying amount of the investment 14.1 12.9 The associate had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments at 31 December 2017 or 25 December 2016.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 107 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 20.
Investments in associates and joint ventures continued a Investment in associates continued Daytona JV Limited continued 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Summary of associates revenue and profit Revenue 39.9 30.5 Underlying profit after tax for the year 4.1 2.4 Non-underlying loss after tax for the year 2.0 9.4 Total profit loss after tax for the year 2.1 7.1 Total comprehensive expense for the year 2.1 7.1 Groups share of profit loss for the year 0.7 2.4 Nordic associates On 8 June 2016 the Group made a 49% investment in Pizza Pizza EHF, an Icelandic incorporated entity which owns the master franchise rights for Iceland, Norway and Sweden with a cost of investment of 23.1m, and a further payment of 1.1m was made as contingent consideration during the period.
On 8 June 2016 the Group made a 20% investment in PPS Foods AB, a Swedish incorporated entity which operates the Dominos brand in Sweden, and a 20% investment in DP Norway AS formerly Pizza Pizza Norway AS, a Norway incorporated entity which operates the Dominos brand in Norway, with a cost of investment of 3.9m.
On 19 April 2017 the Group completed a step acquisition to acquire a controlling share in Pizza Pizza EHF, DP Norway AS formerly Pizza Pizza Norway AS and PPS Foods AB, and therefore the consolidated balance sheet includes the assets and liabilities at 31 December 2017.
As part of the share purchase agreement for the Nordic Investments there is a put option contingent on underlying EBITDA, and a call option granted to Dominos which can be exercised from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020.
The summary below shows the summary income statement until 19 April 2017, when the controlling stake was acquired: 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 Pizza Pizza EHF PPS Foods AS DP Iceland Sweden Norway AS Total m m m m Summary of associates revenue and profit Revenue 11.5 0.8 3.5 8.8 Loss profit after tax for the year 1.0 0.4 1.0 0.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 1.0 0.4 1.0 0.4 Groups share of profit loss for the year 0.5 0.1 0.3 0.1 As the Nordic entities are no longer associates at 31 December 2017, the summary balance sheet is not disclosed separately.
The comparative is shown below: 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 Pizza Pizza EHF PPS Foods AS DP Iceland Sweden Norway AS Total m m m m Summary of associates balance sheet Current assets 4.8 0.5 4.2 9.5 Non-current assets 6.4 1.1 3.4 10.9 Current liabilities 4.2 2.1 4.2 10.5 Non-current liabilities 1.5 5.9 7.4 Net assets 5.5 0.5 2.5 2.5 Groups share of interest in associated undertakings net assets 2.7 0.2 1.1 1.4 Goodwill and transaction costs 27.6 2.5 2.4 32.5 Groups carrying amount of the investment 30.3 2.3 1.3 33.9 108 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 20.
Investments in associates and joint ventures continued a Investment in associates continued Nordic associates continued 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 Pizza Pizza EHF PPS Foods AS DP Iceland Sweden Norway AS Total m m m m Summary of associates revenue and profit Revenue 19.4 0.2 5.5 25.1 Loss profit after tax for the year 1.8 0.4 1.1 0.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 1.8 0.4 1.1 0.3 Groups share of profit for the year 0.9 0.2 0.5 0.2 b Investment in joint ventures The Group has two 50% UK joint ventures, with Dominos Pizza West Country Limited West Country and DP Shayban Limited DP Shayban.
Both West Country and DP Shayban are accounted for as joint ventures using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements as the Group has joint control through voting rights and share ownership as well as being party to a joint venture agreement, which ensures that strategic, financial and operational decisions relating to the joint venture activities require the unanimous consent of the two joint venture partners.
Summary financial information of the joint ventures based on their IFRS financial statements is set out below: At 31 December 2017 At 25 December 2016 DP Shayban West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total m m m m m m Summary of joint ventures balance sheets Current assets 2.2 3.3 5.5 1.9 3.4 5.3 Non-current assets 5.0 5.0 10.0 7.4 4.8 12.2 Current liabilities 1.8 1.8 3.6 2.4 1.6 4.0 Non-current liabilities 1.9 1.9 Net assets 5.6 6.5 12.1 5.0 6.6 11.6 Groups share of interest in associated undertakings net assets 2.7 3.3 6.0 2.5 3.3 5.8 Goodwill and transaction costs 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.1 0.4 0.5 Groups carrying amount of the investment 2.8 3.7 6.5 2.6 3.7 6.3 Within gross balance sheets: Current assets includes cash and cash equivalents 1.1 2.5 1.4 1.2 2.7 3.9 Current financial liabilities 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.4 0.9 Non-current financial liabilities 1.9 1.9 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 DP Shayban West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total m m m m m m Summary of joint ventures statement of profit or loss Revenue 19.0 12.1 31.1 16.2 11.4 27.6 Profit after tax for the year 0.6 0.3 0.9 0.1 1.5 1.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.9 0.3 1.2 0.1 1.5 1.6 Groups share of profit for the year 0.3 0.2 0.5 0.1 0.7 0.8 Dividends received 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Profit after tax for the year includes: Depreciation and amortisation 0.3 0.4 0.7 0.7 0.4 1.1 Interest income 0.1 0.1 Interest expense 0.1 0.1 Income tax expense 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.3 The joint ventures had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 December 2017 and 25 December 2016.
Both joint ventures cannot distribute their profits without the consent from the two venture partners.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 109 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 21.
Inventories At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Raw materials 2.5 0.3 Finished goods and goods for sale 5.9 9.0 Total inventories at lower of cost or estimated net realisable value 8.4 9.3 Provisions against inventories were 0.8m 2016: 0.8m and amounts written off 1.0m 2016: 0.4m.
Cash and cash equivalents At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 29.0 23.1 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is 29.0m 2016: 23.1m.
Cash is denominated in the following currencies: At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Sterling 18.5 9.7 Euro 5.5 12.3 Icelandic krona 1.6 Norwegian krone 1.8 Swiss franc 1.6 1.1 29.0 23.1 23.
Trade and other payables At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Included in current liabilities: Trade payables 26.4 22.7 Other taxes and social security costs 5.3 1.6 Other payables 5.5 1.9 Accruals 49.2 33.1 86.4 59.3 Included in non-current liabilities: Other payables 0.9 2.7 Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities: trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on seven to 30 day terms: and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of six months.
Included within accruals are amounts relating to goods received and not yet invoiced of 8.1m 2016: 5.6m, amounts owed to franchisees in relation to web sales 14.1m 2016: 11.5m and an increase of trading accruals in relation to acquired entities and store volume growth.
110 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 24.
Financial liabilities At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Current Current instalments due on other loans 0.2 0.6 Current instalments due on finance leases 0.4 0.1 0.6 0.7 Gross put option liabilities 5.6 6.2 0.7 Share buyback obligations 18.3 10.0 24.5 10.7 Non-current Bank revolving facility 113.9 56.7 Non-current instalments due on other loans 3.7 0.3 Gross put option liabilities 34.7 152.3 57.0 Banking facilities At 31 December 2017 the Group had a total of 359.5m 2016: 180.0m of banking facilities, of which 241.3m 2016: 118.3m was undrawn.
Bank revolving facility On 8 July 2017, the Group extended the existing multi-currency syndicated revolving credit facility by one year to 8 July 2022.
Subsequently, on 13 December 2017 the revolving credit facility was amended and extended to 350.0m with a term of five years.
Interest charged on the revolving credit facility ranges from 0.75% per annum above LIBOR or equivalent when the Groups leverage is less than 1:1 up to 1.80% per annum above LIBOR for leverage above 2.5:1.
A further utilisation fee is charged if over one-third utilised at 0.15% which rises to 0.30% of the margin rate if over two-thirds is drawn.
In addition, a commitment fee is calculated on undrawn amounts based on 35% of the current applicable margin.
Arrangement fees of 3.2m 2016: 1.4m directly incurred in relation to the facility are included in the carrying values of the facility and are being amortised over the term of the facility.
Arrangement fees of 0.2m previously capitalised have been written off in the year.
An ancillary overdraft and pooling arrangement is in place with Barclays Bank Plc for 10.0m covering the Company, Dominos Pizza UK and Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, and DP Pizza Limited.
An ancillary overdraft is in place with Barclays Bank Plc for 5.0m for Dominos Pizza UK and Ireland Limited.
Interest is charged at the same margin as applicable to the revolving credit facility above bank base rate.
The facility is secured by an unlimited cross guarantee between the Company, Dominos Pizza UK and Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited and DP Group Developments Limited, DP Cyco Switzerland Limited and Dominos Pizza GmbH.
Other loans Other loans include loans entered into to acquire assets which are then leased on to franchisees under finance lease agreements.
The Group has an asset finance facility of 5.0m 2016: 5.0m with a term of five years.
The balance drawn down on this facility and held within other loans as at 31 December 2017 is 0.2m 2016: 0.9m.
The loans are repayable in equal instalments over a period of up to five years.
The loans are secured by a limited guarantee and indemnity by the Company and Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited limited to an annual sum of 0.3m and a mortgage charge over the assets financed.
The interest rate on these loans is fixed at an average of 5.9% 2016: 5.9%.
DP Norway AS has access to a NOK 4.0m 0.4m overdraft and NOK 50.0m 4.5m five year term loan facility provided by Nordea Bank AB.
Interest is charged 0.6% above NIBOR for each overdraft utilisation plus a yearly commission of 0.9%.
At 31 December 2017 NOK 40.0m 3.6m was drawn on the term loan facility.
Interest is charged at 1.35% above NIBOR with a yearly commission of 0.6%.
Both the overdraft and loan facility are guaranteed by the Company.
Share buyback obligation On 14 December 2017 the Group entered into an irrevocable non-discretionary programme with Numis Securities Limited to purchase up to a maximum of 20.0m of shares from 18 December 2017.
The remaining share buybacks outstanding at the balance sheet date have been recognised as a financial liability of 18.3m 2016: 10.0m.
The full obligation had been utilised by 5 February 2018.
Gross put options liabilities On acquisition of Pizza Pizza EHF and DPN, and the subsequent hive out of PPS Foods AB, a liability at the present value of the gross amount of the put options held by the non-controlling interests over the remaining shareholding has been recognised on consolidation amounting to 34.8m and by 31 December 2017 has been revalued to 34.7m.
The value of the financial liabilities is the discounted value of the gross liabilities for the put options based on the expected value of the consideration on exercise of the options.
The put option liability is based on a forecast EBITDA multiple of the respective businesses during the exercise period.
The options are exercisable from 1 July 2019 until 30 June 2020.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 111 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 24.
Financial liabilities continued Gross put options liabilities continued On acquisition of London corporate stores on 5 October 2017, a liability at the present value of the gross amount of the put options was held by the non-controlling interests over the remaining shareholding has been recognised on consolidation amounting to 5.6m.
The option is exercisable at this value from six months of the acquisition date for a period of six months.
If the option is not exercised, the option reverts to fair value based on EBITDA multiple from three years after acquisition date.
Deferred and contingent consideration Deferred Contingent Total m m m At 27 December 2015 2.9 2.9 Acquisition of associate 1.1 1.1 Paid during the period 2.9 2.9 At 25 December 2016 1.1 1.1 Acquisition of subsidiary 3.6 3.6 Paid during the period 1.1 1.1 At 31 December 2017 3.6 3.6 During the period the Group has utilised 4.8m 2016: 5.7m of the capital allowances which were acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited.
The utilisation of these capital allowances reduces the value of the deferred tax asset which was recognised on acquisition: however, it results in no overall impact on the tax charge for the period as there is an equal and opposite reduction in the Groups corporation tax liability.
On 5 October 2017 the Group acquired a controlling interest in Sheermans SS Limited, Sheermans Harrow Limited and WAP Partners Limited on which deferred consideration was payable of 3.6m.
Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts For the stores in the franchisee system, the Group has entered into commercial leases, taking the head lease and then subletting the properties to the franchisees.
These head leases have an average duration of between ten and 25 years.
Under the terms of the franchise agreement the franchisee is granted an initial period of ten years to operate a Dominos Pizza delivery store under the Dominos system.
Under the agreement, the franchisee also has the option to renew for a further ten years at the end of the initial period provided at the time of the renewal the franchisee is not in default of any material provision of the franchise agreement.
The property lease agreements contain an option for renewal, with such options being exercisable three months before the expiry of the lease term at rentals based on market prices at the time of exercise.
In addition the Group has entered into commercial leases on motor vehicles and items of plant, machinery and equipment.
These leases have an average duration of between three and five years.
Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Not later than one year 27.5 23.3 After one year but not more than five years 100.5 85.8 After five years 203.8 176.6 331.8 285.7 Operating lease rentals where the Group is lessor Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Not later than one year 21.6 19.3 After one year but not more than five years 71.8 63.9 After five years 118.0 85.7 211.4 168.9 112 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 27.
Provisions Reversionary share plan Dilapidations Onerous lease Other provisions provisions provisions provisions Total m m m m m At 25 December 2016 2.3 0.4 2.7 Arising during the period 11.0 0.5 0.5 12.0 Acquisitions 2.2 0.7 1.2 4.1 Utilised during the period 0.7 0.3 1.0 Released during the period 0.1 0.1 Impact of discounting 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2017 11.0 2.2 2.8 1.8 17.8 At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Current 4.5 1.5 Non-current 13.3 1.2 17.8 2.7 Reversionary share plan provisions As discussed more fully in note 2: the employment tax provision relates to certain of the Groups historical share-based compensation arrangements dating from 20032010.
As a result of the updated legal advice received a provision has been recorded in these financial statements amounting to 11.0m, comprising 2.6m employers NIC, and 8.4m employees NIC and PAYE.
Within this an estimate of interest on overdue tax of 3.3m has been provided for.
No contingent asset has been recognised in the financial statements in relation to the indemnities provided by the beneficiaries of the arrangements.
As the tax liability has not crystallised, the Group is not yet entitled to seek recovery of the amounts due under the indemnities.
The timing of the utilisation of the provision is uncertain, as discussed more fully in note 2.
Dilapidations provisions On acquisition of the Nordic entities and the London corporate stores, the Group acquired dilapidations provisions which were recognised at fair value.
Onerous lease provision The onerous lease provision relates to the outstanding rent obligation for properties in the UK, Ireland, Germany and Norway.
These properties include sublets to commercial tenants, properties for which a lease has been signed but no franchisee has been identified to operate the store such that the lease obligation has become onerous, along with stores for which the tenant is paying reduced rent and the Group expects to make a loss in relation to the lease.
The provision will be utilised over the remaining lease term on the properties identified which range between one and 24 years.
Provisions recognised on acquisition of Dolly Dimples have been recorded at fair value.
Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups financial risk management objectives consist of identifying and monitoring risks which might have an adverse impact on the value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, reported profitability or cash flows.
The main risks are foreign currency risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
The Group has various financial assets such as trade receivables and cash, which arise directly from its operations.
The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise share buyback obligations, bank revolving facilities, other loans and finance leases.
The Group has not entered into any derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps or financial foreign currency contracts.
The Groups Treasury Policy allows it to trade in derivatives to manage interest rate, commodity and foreign exchange risk.
Foreign currency risk The Group has invested in operations in the Iceland, Norway, Ireland, Sweden and Switzerland and also buys and sells goods and services in currencies other than sterling.
The Group has also invested in an associate in Germany.
As a result, the value of the Groups non-functional currency revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in exchange rates.
The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of its currency exposures by agreeing fixed currency contracts with franchisees and suppliers wherever possible.
The group does not use derivatives to hedge balance sheet and profit and loss translation exposures arising on the consolidation of overseassubsidiaries.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in sterling against the Euro, Icelandic Krona, Norwegian Krone and Swedish Krona exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
The impact on the Groups profit before tax is due to changes in the carrying value of currency-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a sterling functional currency and sterling-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a non-sterling functional currency.
The impact on the Groups pre-tax equity is due to changes in carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is immaterial.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 113 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 28.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Foreign currency risk continued Effect on profit Effect on Change in before tax pre-tax equity EUR rate m m 2017 25% 1.8 2.8 -25% 2.9 4.7 2016 25% 4.0 2.6 -25% 5.0 3.2 Effect on profit Effect on Change in before tax pre-tax equity NOK rate m m 2017 25% 0.6 -25% 1.1 2016 25% 6.1 -25% 7.6 Effect on profit Effect on Change in before tax pre-tax equity SEK rate m m 2017 25% 0.5 -25% 0.8 2016 25% 0.5 -25% 0.6 Effect on profit Effect on Change in before tax pre-tax equity ISK rate m m 2017 25% 5.8 -25% 9.7 2016 25% 0.3 -25% 0.3 Credit risk Customers who trade on credit terms and obtain finance leasing and loans from the Group are predominantly franchisees and it is considered that the franchisee selection process is sufficiently robust to ensure an appropriate credit verification procedure.
In addition, trade receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
Since the Group trades only with franchisees that have been subject to the franchisee selection process and provide guarantees as required under the franchisee agreements, there is no requirement for collateral.
It is Group policy that cash deposits are only made with banks that have been approved by the Board and have a high credit rating in accordance with the Groups treasury policy to ensure that the Group is not exposed to unnecessary risk.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meets its obligations as they fall due.
To manage liquidity risk, each operating area prepares short-term, medium-term and long-term cash flow forecasts which are regularly reviewed and challenged.
These forecasts are consolidated centrally to ensure the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet it liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions without risking damage to the Groups reputation.
All major investment decisions are considered by the Board as part of the project appraisal and approval process.
The Group has access to a 350.0m syndicated revolving credit facility which matures in December 2022 with an option of two further one-year extensions.
The Group also has access to Sterling, Euro and Norwegian Krone overdrafts which were undrawn at 31 December 2017.
114 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 28.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk continued The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2017 and 25 December 2016 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Less than 3 to 1 to On demand 3 months 12 months 5 years Total m m m m m Period ended 31 December 2017 Floating rate borrowings Bank revolving facility 113.9 113.9 Other loans 0.2 3.7 3.9 Fixed rate borrowings Finance leases 0.1 0.3 0.4 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 85.7 0.7 0.9 87.3 Deferred consideration 3.6 3.6 Gross put option liabilities 5.6 34.7 40.3 Share buyback obligation 18.3 18.3 107.7 6.8 153.2 267.7 Less than 3 to 1 to On demand 3 months 12 months 5 years Total m m m m m Period ended 25 December 2016 Floating rate borrowings Bank revolving facility 56.7 56.7 Fixed rate borrowings Other loans fixed rate 0.1 0.4 0.3 0.8 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 58.8 0.6 2.8 62.2 Contingent consideration 1.1 1.1 Share buyback obligation 10.0 10.0 68.9 2.2 59.8 130.9 Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises predominately from its revolving credit facility.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
The Group undertakes sensitivity analysis prepared on a basis of constant net debt.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the 53 week period ended 31December 2017 would increase decrease by 0.5m 2016: increase decrease by 0.2m.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
There would be no impact on other comprehensive income.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it retains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group seeks to maintain a ratio of debt to equity that balances risks and returns and also complies with lending covenants.
The Group manages its capital structure and adjusts it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the periods ended 31 December 2017 and 25 December 2016.
At the AGM in 2014, a special resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10% of its Ordinary shares.
The Groups financing is subject to financial covenants.
These covenants relate to measurement of adjusted EBITDAR against consolidated net finance charges interest cover and adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio.
The Group has complied with all these covenants.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 115 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 28.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Capital management continued At At 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Other loans 3.9 0.9 Finance leases 0.4 0.1 Bank revolving facilities 113.9 56.7 Less: cash and cash equivalents 29.0 23.1 Net debt 89.2 34.6 Underlying EBITDA from continuing operations 108.5 93.8 Adjusted gearing ratio 0.8 0.4 For further commentary on cash flow, net debt and gearing see the strategic report.
Financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements: Carrying Carrying Fair Fair value value value value 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Financial assets Net investment in finance leases 0.8 0.8 Available-for-sale financial assets 9.0 8.1 9.0 8.1 Financial liabilities Bank revolving facilities 113.9 56.7 113.9 56.7 Fixed rate borrowings 0.9 0.9 Other loans 3.9 0.9 3.9 0.9 Deferred and contingent consideration 3.6 1.1 3.6 1.1 Share buyback obligations 18.3 10.0 18.3 10.0 Gross put option liabilities 40.3 40.3 Finance lease liabilities 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.1 The fair value of the net investment in finance leases has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at the market interest rate.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at a market rate of interest.
Management has determined that the fair values of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and share buyback obligations approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
The fair values of bank revolving facilities, fixed rate borrowings and finance lease liabilities are determined using a rate that reflects the entitys borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period.
The inputs used in these discounted cash flow calculations are at level 2 in the hierarchy.
Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
IFRS 13 requires the classification of financial instruments measured at fair value to be determined by reference to the source of inputs used to derive fair value.
The contingent consideration of 25.0m 22.2m payable by Dominos Pizza Enterprises Limited referred to as the Market Access Fee in respect of Dominos Pizza Group plc divesting its interests in operating Dominos Pizza stores in Germany and its exclusive access to the German market, held through its shareholding in DP Cyco Limited and which became payable from 2017, is carried at a fair value of 10.1m 9.0m within available-for-sale financial assets.
The contingent consideration is payable by instalments from 2017, the payment of each instalment being determined by reference to the German business achieving defined levels of EBITDA.
As at 31 December 2017, no payments are due.
The inputs used to calculate the fair value of the Market Access Fee fall within Level 3 of the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
Level 3 fair value measurements use unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The fair value of the financial asset recognised is calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the appropriate discount rate for the German associated Company.
The payments are calculated applying an income approach valuation methodology, considering different scenarios of projected EBITDA, weighted by the probability of each scenario.
The fair value is based on a mid-point in the range of probable fair value outcomes of 5.8m to 14.7m based on a range of EBITDA forecasts.
116 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 29.
Financial instruments continued Fair values continued Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuation: Significant unobservable inputs Range Sensitivity of the input to the fair value WACC 8.5% to 9.5% 0.5% increase or decrease in the WACC would result in a decrease or increase in fair value of 0.2m.
The inputs used to calculate the fair value of the contingent consideration fall within Level 3 of the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
The fair value of the deferred consideration of 3.6m recognised is calculated based upon expected working capital adjustments due on the London corporate stores acquisition.
The inputs used to calculate the fair value of the put options fall within level 3 of the IFRS 13 hierarchy.
These inputs include the expected performance of the business during the exercise period.
On acquisition of London corporate stores on 5 October 2017, a liability at the present value of the gross amount of the put options was held by the non-controlling interests over the remaining shareholding has been recognised on consolidation amounting to 5.6m.
During the year the Company bought back a total of 10,789,454 Ordinary shares of 25 48p each for a total value of 36.6m including costs of 0.2m.
Ofthese shares, 7,849,454 were cancelled and 2,940,000 were bought back and held as treasury shares.
The average price for which these shares were purchased was 339.2p.
During the year the Company also cancelled 4,072,590 shares that were held as treasury shares at the start of the year.
Nature and purpose of reserves Share capital Share capital comprises the nominal value of the Companys Ordinary shares of 25 48p each.
Share premium The share premium reserve is the premium paid on the Companys 25 48p Ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve includes the nominal value of shares bought back by the Company.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 117 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 30.
Share capital and reserves continued Nature and purpose of reserves continued Capital reserve own shares This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed EBT and shares held by the Company as treasury shares.
The shares held by the EBT were purchased in order to satisfy outstanding employee share options and potential awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and other incentive schemes.
During the period the Company acquired 2,940,000 of its own shares 2016: nil.
At31 December 2017 the Company held 2,114,550 2016: 168,756 of its own shares in the EBT which had a historic cost of 6.5m 2016: nil.
These shares had a market value at 31 December 2017 of 6.7m 2016: 0.6m.
The EBT has waived its entitlement to dividends.
During the period the Company acquired nil of its own shares 2016: 2,932,590.
At 31 December 2017 the Company held nil 2016: 4,072,590 of its own shares.
The shares are held as treasury shares.
The Company has the right to reissue these shares at a later date.
During the year the Group impaired treasury shares by 2.8m 2016: nil on issue of shares at a price lower than historic cost.
Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the Groups foreign subsidiaries and the equity valuation of investments in associates and joint ventures carried in non-sterling currencies.
Other reserves The other reserve relates to the gross liability for put options held by non-controlling interests that the Group is contractually obliged to meet when exercised.
31. Business combinations The acquisitions in the period have been accounted for as business combinations.
The provisional fair value amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below: Transaction costs relating to the acquisitions detailed in this section are detailed in note 7.
Dominos London Dominos Norway and Dolly Dimples Corporate Iceland Sweden Norway Stores Total m m m m m Consideration transferred Cash 1.3 13.7 5.7 24.4 45.1 Deferred consideration 3.6 3.6 Non-cash consideration 5.6 5.6 Total 1.3 13.7 5.7 33.6 54.3 Fair value of net assets acquired provisional Property, plant and equipment 4.7 3.4 1.3 1.1 10.5 Intangible assets 22.1 18.7 1.7 4.5 47.0 Inventories 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.1 1.3 Trade and other receivables 4.1 0.8 1.1 1.3 7.3 Deferred tax assets 1.2 1.4 2.6 Assets held for sale 0.2 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 14.7 0.9 3.1 4.9 23.6 Total assets acquired 46.2 25.6 8.8 11.9 92.5 Trade and other payables 4.7 2.9 2.9 4.3 14.8 Loans 1.6 2.7 4.3 Provisions 2.3 2.3 Deferred tax liabilities 4.4 4.3 0.4 0.5 9.6 Total liabilities acquired 10.7 9.9 5.6 4.8 31.0 Net identifiable assets acquired at fair value 35.5 15.7 3.2 7.1 61.5 Goodwill arising on acquisition Consideration transferred 1.3 13.7 5.7 33.6 54.3 Transfer of equity at acquisition 29.2 3.8 33.0 Non-controlling interests 17.4 4.6 22.0 Fair value of net assets acquired provisional 35.5 15.7 3.2 7.1 61.5 Goodwill 12.4 6.4 2.5 26.5 47.8 Acquisition of Dominos Iceland On 19 April 2017 the Group acquired 2% of the share capital of its associated undertaking Pizza Pizza EHF, taking the Groups shareholding to 51% and in doing so gaining control of the Icelandic-based Dominos master franchise holder.
The acquisition balance sheet has been adjusted to reflect provisional fair value adjustments.
Adjustments to the completion balance sheet primarily relate to intangible assets of the MFA acquired with Pizza Pizza EHF and recognition of necessary provisions.
The MFA has been valued using the multi-period excess earnings method income approach taking into account forecast revenue and EBITDA margin and a discount rate applied.
Adjustments to taxes relate to additional tax provisions and deferred tax on the fair value adjustments.
Non-controlling interests have been valued as a proportion of identifiable net assets.
118 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 31. Business combinations continued Acquisition of Dominos Iceland continued The goodwill recognised above includes certain intangible assets that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
This includes control over the acquired business, the skills and experience of the assembled workforce and the future growth opportunities the business provides to the Groups operations.
The goodwill recognised is not deductible for tax purposes.
Since the acquisition date, Pizza Pizza EHF contributed 2.7m to operating profit.
If the acquisition of Pizza Pizza EHF had taken place on 26December 2016, the Group underlying operating profit would have been 96.5m and revenue for continuing operations would have been 487.3m.
Acquisition of Dominos Norway and Sweden On 19 April 2017 the Group acquired an additional 51% of the share capital of its associated undertaking DP Norway AS DPN, formerly Pizza Pizza Norway AS, taking the Groups shareholding to 71% and in doing so gaining control of the Norway and Sweden-based Dominos master franchise holder.
This allowed access to two fast growing markets and facilitated the subsequent acquisition of Dolly Dimples Norges AS.
Adjustments to the completion balance sheet primarily relate to intangible assets of the MFA acquired with DPN for Norway and Sweden and recognition of necessary provisions.
The MFA has been valued using a cost approach taking into account forecast revenue and a discount rate applied.
The goodwill recognised above includes certain intangible assets that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
Since the acquisition date, DPN contributed an operating loss of 6.2m.
If the acquisition of DPN had taken place on 26 December 2016, the Group adjusted operating profit would have been 95.2m and revenue for continuing operations would have been 478.8m.
Acquisition of Dolly Dimples On 2 May 2017 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Dolly Dimples, a leading Norway-based pizza chain operator with 42 stores.
The stores will be converted to Dominos stores and provide scale to the operations in Norway.
Adjustments to the completion balance sheet primarily relate to intangible assets of the store franchise network and brand acquired with Dolly Dimples, revaluation of property, plant and equipment in accordance with IFRS 13 and recognition of provisions relating to out of market leases and other necessary provisions.
The store franchise network has been valued using the multi-period excess earnings method income approach taking into account forecast revenue and EBITDA margin and a discount rate applied.
The brand has been valued using the cost approach.
Since the acquisition date, Dolly Dimples contributed an operating loss of 1.4m to operating profit.
If the acquisition of Dolly Dimples had taken place on 26 December 2016, the Group adjusted operating profit would have been 95.1m and revenue for continuing operations would have been 480.8m.
Transfer of Dominos Sweden On 27 April 2017 the shares of the Group subsidiary PPS Foods AB, the Sweden-based Dominos master franchise holder, were transferred at market value from DPN to the shareholders of DPN in proportion of existing shareholding.
This resulted in an additional payment of 1.7m from the non-controlling interests, which has been accounted for in equity.
The Group therefore retains control and the same ownership interest in the Company after the transfer in proportion to existing shareholdings.
Acquisition of London corporate stores On 5 October 2017 the group acquired 100% of the share capital of Sheermans SS Limited, Sheermans Harrow Limited and WAP Partners Limited, a franchisee group that operates 25 Dominos stores in London.
The acquiring Company, Sell More Pizza Limited, is 25% owned by the former majority shareholder in each of the subsidiaries acquired with a non-cash contribution of 5.6m for the shares.
The acquisition provides access to the West London area through the Standard Franchise Agreement SFA, and the growth opportunities available in this market.
Deferred consideration is a working capital adjustment payable in January 2018.
The acquisition balance sheet has been adjusted to reflect the provisional fair value adjustments.
Adjustments to the completion balance sheet primarily relate to recognition of intangible assets for the SFA and of necessary provisions.
The SFA was valued using the multi-period excess earnings method income approach taking into account forecast revenue and EBITDA margin and a discount rate applied.
Adjustments to taxes relate to deferred tax on the fair value adjustments.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 119 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 31. Business combinations continued Acquisition of London corporate stores continued Since the acquisition date, the London corporate stores have contributed 0.4m to operating profit.
If the acquisition of the London corporate stores had taken place on 26 December 2016, the Group adjusted operating profit would have been 98.2m and revenue for continuing operations would have been 488.2m.
Share-based payments The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 was 1.7m 2016: 2.2m.
This all arises on equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The comparative figures in this note have been restated to reflect the share split in the period, as outlined in note 30.
2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 LTIP At the 2012 AGM shareholders approved the adoption of new LTIP rules which allow for either the grant of market value options or performance shares.
Awards are approved and granted at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee to Senior Executives and other employees.
Awards are capable of vesting within a three-year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity settled.
At 31 December 2017, there were 2012 LTIP awards over 4,072,373 2016: 3,740,492 shares in Dominos Pizza Group plc.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 31 December 2017 was 1.4 years 2016: 4.3 years.
The weighted average share price for options exercised during 2017 was 281.9p 2016: 341.3p.
2016 Long Term Incentive Plan 2016 LTIP At the 2016 AGM shareholders approved the adoption of new LTIP rules which allow for either the grant of market value options or performance shares.
Awards are capable of vesting within a three to five-year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity settled.
During the period nil awards were granted 2016: 1,602,000.
At 31 December 2017, there were 2016 LTIP awards over 1,602,000 2016: 1,602,000 shares in Dominos Pizza Group plc.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 31 December 2017 was 2.3 years 2016: 2.8 years.
There were no options exercised during 2017 2016: nil.
The fair value of options granted is estimated at the date of grant using Stochastic and Black-Scholes models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which they were granted.
Total shareholder return TSR is generated for the Company and the comparator group at the end of the three-year performance period.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the options is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the period ended 31 December 2017: 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 Weighted average fair value 159.0p Weighted average share price 271.6p Weighted average exercise price 0.00p Expected dividend yield 3.04% Risk-free rates 0.25% Expected volatility 29.89% Further information on the Companys 2012 and 2016 LTIP awards is given in the Executive Director policy table on pages 48 to 51 of the Directors remuneration report.
Employee share options On 23 March 2004, the Company established the Dominos Pizza Group plc Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme EMI Scheme.
All employees are eligible for grants of options under this scheme, which is approved by the Board.
Prior to 2011, the options vested over a three-year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that the growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share during each of the three years following the date of grant exceeds growth in the Retail Prices Index by at least 3%.
For 2011 and 2012 the options vest over a three-year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that real growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share, during each of the three years following the date of grant, exceeds 3%.
The options lapse after ten years or in certain other circumstances connected with leaving the Company.
There are no cash settlement alternatives and all awards are equity settled.
No options were granted during the period ended 31 December 2017 2016: nil.
Sharesave scheme During 2009 the Group introduced a Sharesave scheme giving employees the option to acquire shares in the Company at a 20% discount.
Employees have the option to save an amount per month up to a maximum of 500 and at the end of three years they have the option to purchase shares in the Company or to take their savings in cash.
The contractual life of the scheme is three years.
The weighted average fair value of each option granted in 2017 was 240.3p 2016: 190.7p.
120 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 32.
Additional cash flow information 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 Notes m m Other movements Loss profit on disposal of non-current assets 20 0.4 0.1 Share of post-tax profits losses of associates and joint ventures 7 3.2 0.1 Net gain on step acquisition of foreign operations 5.8 Discontinued operations 12 0.7 1.4 Increase decrease in provisions 11.1 4.9 Share option and LTIP charge 1.7 2.3 3.5 1.2 Working capital movements Decrease increase in inventories 2.2 2.9 Decrease increase in receivables 3.0 17.4 Increase in payables 7.6 8.2 Increase in deferred income 5.8 1.3 18.6 10.8 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 121 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 33.
Additional cash flow information continued Reconciliation of financing activities At At 25 December Cash Exchange Non-cash 31 December 2016 flow differences movements 2017 m m m m m Bank revolving facility 56.7 56.4 0.8 113.9 Bank loans 1.4 0.2 3.9 2.3 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Other loans 0.9 62.4 0.9 64.2 Movements in financing activities 57.7 117.3 0.2 5.8 180.6 At At 27 December Cash Exchange Non-cash 25 December 2015 flow differences movements 2016 m m m m m Bank revolving facility 10.5 44.2 1.8 0.2 56.7 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 Other loans 2.0 1.1 0.9 Movements in financing activities 12.5 43.1 1.9 0.2 57.7 Included within other loans are gross put option liabilities of 40.3m and share buyback liabilities of 18.3m.
Capital commitments At 31 December 2017, amounts contracted for but not provided for in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounted to 2.0m 2016: 5.9m for the Group.
Contingent liabilities Pursuant to the relevant regulation of the European Communities Companies: Group Accounts Regulations 1992 the Company has guaranteed the liabilities of the Irish subsidiary, DP Pizza Limited, and as a result the Irish Company has been exempted from the filing provisions in section 7, Companies Amendment Act 1986 of the ROI.
Post balance sheet events On 15 January 2018, the Group acquired a further 44.3% of Pizza Pizza EHF for consideration of ISK3,721.2m 26.8m increasing the proportion of voting rights and share capital to 95.3%.
This increase in shareholding is a transaction with non-controlling interest and will be accounted for within equity.
The Group financed the acquisition through its existing debt facilities.
On completion of the Transaction the financial effects on the Group included: debt increased by the value of consideration: an additional 44.3% of the share capital of is owned by the Group and it will receive an additional 44.3% of earnings from the date of completion of the transaction: and net assets will change by the difference between the reduction in value of the put option liability as at the date of completion of the acquisition and the consideration payable for the acquisition.
On 8 January 2018, the Group increased its investment by 6.0m 5.4m and loaned an additional 6.0m 5.4m to Daytona JV Limited in order to maintain its 33.3% ownership in order to acquire an existing pizza chain in Germany, Hallo Pizza GmbH.
The impact of this transaction on the Market Access Fee has not been reflected in the financial statements for the period.
Related party transactions The financial statements include the financial statements of Dominos Pizza Group plc and the subsidiary and associated undertakings listed below.
Country of Proportion of voting Name of Company incorporation rights and share capital Registered office Directly held subsidiary undertakings 1 DP Norway AS Norway 71% Ordinary Nesveien 13, Haslum, 1344, Norway DP Capital Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DP Cyco Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Rigas, 4, Omega Court, Floor 1, Limassol, 3095, Cyprus DP Cyco Switzerland Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Rigas, 4, Omega Court, Floor 1, Limassol, 3095, Cyprus DP Group Developments Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DP Realty Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DPG Holdings Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom 2 Pizza Pizza EHF Iceland 51% Ordinary Louholar 2-6, 11 Reykjavik, Iceland 3 PPS Foods AB Sweden 71% Ordinary Elias Lnnrots Vg 19, 168 46 Bromma, Sweden 122 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORA CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 37.
Related party transactions continued Country of Proportion of voting Name of Company incorporation rights and share capital Registered office Indirectly held subsidiary undertakings D. P. Newcastle Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Deutsche Dominoid GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary c o Cormoran GmbH, Am Zirkus 2, 10117, Berlin, Germany 4 Dolly Dimple's Norge AS Norway 71% Ordinary Karenslyst all 12 14, Oslo, 0278, Norway Dominos Pizza Germany GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary c o Cormoran GmbH, Am Zirkus 2, 10117, Berlin, Germany Domino's Leasing Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Domino's Pizza Isle of Man Limited Isle of Man 100% Ordinary First Floor, Jubilee Buildings, Victoria Street, Douglas IM1 2SH, Isle of Man Domino's Pizza Germany England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Holdings Limited Domino's Pizza Germany Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Domino's Pizza GmbH Switzerland 100% Ordinary Europastrasse 19, 8152, Glattbrugg, Switzerland Domino's Pizza UK & Ireland Limited England 100% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DP Operations AS Norway 71% Ordinary Karenslyst all 12 14, Oslo, 0278, Norway DP Pizza Limited Republic of 100% Ordinary Unit 1B Toughers Business Park, Newhall, Naas Co. Kildare, Ireland Ireland DP Production AS Norway 71% Ordinary Nesveien 13, Haslum, 1344, Norway DP Realty Deutschland GbmH Germany 100% Ordinary c o Cormoran GmbH, Am Zirkus 2, 10117, Berlin, Germany HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary c o Cormoran GmbH, Am Zirkus 2, 10117, Berlin, Germany 5 Sell More Pizza Limited England 75% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom 5 Sheermans Harrow Limited England 75% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom 5 Sheermans Limited England 75% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom 5 Sheermans SS Limited England 75% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom 5 WAP Partners Limited England 75% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Associate undertakings Daytona JV Limited England 33.3% Ordinary 3rd Floor, 1 Ashley Road, Altrincham, Cheshire WA14 2DT, United Kingdom Full House Restaurants England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Holdings Limited Indirectly held subsidiaries of associate undertakings B N Sandy Newcastle Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom B N Sandy Cannock Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Bristol Curry Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Classic Crust Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Dancing Tiger Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Freshname 845 Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Full House Restaurants Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom House Special Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom J M R Foster Winsford Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom J M R Foster Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Sherston Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Sunmead Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Surrey Pizzas Limited England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom The Woodpecker Inn Ltd England 49% Ordinary 34 Anyards Road, Cobham, Surrey KT11 2LA, United Kingdom Joint venture undertakings Dominos Pizza West England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Country Limited DP Shayban Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 123 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 37.
Related party transactions continued Country of Proportion of voting Name of Company incorporation rights and share capital Registered office Indirectly held subsidiaries of joint venture undertakings AKS Partners Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DA Hall Trading Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DAHT Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Dijla Newport Limited England 50% Ordinary 23 Neptune Court, Vanguard Way, Cardiff, Wales CF24 5PJ, United Kingdom DP Beach A Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom DP Beach B Limited England 50% Ordinary 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB, United Kingdom Mesan Limited England 50% Ordinary 23 Neptune Court, Vanguard Way, Cardiff, Wales CF24 5PJ, United Kingdom MLS Limited England 50% Ordinary Aldreth, Pearcroft Road, Stonehouse, Gloucestershire GL10 2JY, United Kingdom Zens Limited England 50% Ordinary 23 Neptune Court, Vanguard Way, Cardiff, Wales CF24 5PJ, United Kingdom Daytona Germany GmbH Germany 33% Ordinary Holzdamm 57, 20099, Hamburg, Germany Dominos Pizza Germany 33% Ordinary Holzdamm 57, 20099, Hamburg, Germany Deutschland GmbH 1 The Group acquired an additional 26% of DP Norway AS formerly Pizza Pizza Norway AS and its subsidiaries during 2017.
2 The Group acquired an additional 2% of Pizza Pizza EHF during 2017 and a further 44.3% in January 2018.
3 The Group acquired an additional 26% of PPS Foods AB during 2017.
4 The Group acquired 71% of Dolly Dimples Norge AS and its subsidiary during 2017.
5 Sell More Pizza Limited was incorporated during 2017.
It acquired the entire issued share capital of three companies and a subsidiary, engaged in franchise operations in London.
During the period the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties.
For details of loan balances due from associates please refer to note 18.
Transactions entered into, and trading balances outstanding with related parties, are as follows: Amounts Sales to owed by related related party party m m Related party Associates and joint ventures 31 December 2017 33.0 1.9 25 December 2016 28.2 2.3 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales and purchases between related parties are made at normal market prices.
Outstanding balances with entities are unsecured and interest free and cash settlement is expected within seven days of invoice.
The Group has not provided for or benefited from any guarantees for any related party receivables or payables.
During the financial period ended 31 December 2017, the Group has made a provision of nil for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties 2016: nil.
Compensation of key management personnel including Directors 53 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 31 December 25 December 2017 2016 m m Short-term employee benefits 15.1 4.2 Post-employment benefits 0.2 Share-based payment 1.6 1.8 16.7 6.2 The table above includes the remuneration costs of the Executive Directors of the Company, the Directors of Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited and other key management personnel of the Group.
Included in short-term employee benefits above are termination payments totalling nil 2016: 0.3m.
A provision for employment taxes has been recorded in the year see note 2.
The related expense has been included in the compensation to current and former Directors and members of the senior management team.
The amount pertaining to current Directors is included in the Directors remuneration report.
124 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017
