CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Directors responsibilities state whether applicable UK Accounting The Directors are responsible for preparing Directors responsibility statement Standards have been followed, subject the Annual Report in accordance with The Directors are responsible for preparing to any material departures disclosed and applicable law and regulations.
Having taken the Annual Report & Accounts, the explained in the financial statements: and advice from the Audit Committee, the Directors remuneration report and the Board considers the Annual Report & financial statements Group and Company prepare the financial statements on Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, in accordance with applicable UK laws and thegoing concern basis unless it is balanced and understandable and that it regulations.
UK company law requires the inappropriate to presume that the provides the information necessary for the Directors to prepare financial statements Company will continue in business.
shareholders to assess the Companys for each financial year.
Under that law, andGroups performance, business model theDirectors have prepared the Group The Directors are responsible for keeping and strategy.
financial statements in accordance with adequate accounting records that disclose International Financial Reporting Standards with reasonable accuracy at any time the Signed on behalf of the Board as adopted by the European Union IFRS financial position of the Company and the and applicable UK law.
Further, they have Group and enable them to ensure that the elected to prepare the Company financial Annual Report & Accounts and financial statements in accordance with UK David Wild statements comply with the Companies accounting standards UK GAAP Chief Executive Officer Act 2006 and, with regard to the Group andapplicable UK law.
7 March 2018 financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for Under company law the Directors must the system of internal control for safeguarding notapprove the financial statements unless the assets of the Company and the Group they are satisfied that they are a true and fair and hence for taking reasonable steps view of the Group and Company and of the toprevent and detect fraud and profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Group financial statements, A copy of the financial statements of the the Directors are required to: Company is posted on the Companys website.
The Directors are responsible select suitable accounting policies forthe maintenance and integrity of the inaccordance with IAS 8 Accounting corporate and financial information included Policies, Changes in Accounting on the website.
Information published on the Estimates and Errors and then apply Companys website is accessible in many them consistently: countries with different legal requirements.
present information, including accounting Legislation in the United Kingdom governing policies, in a manner which presents the preparation and dissemination of financial relevant, reliable, comparable and statements may differ from legislation in understandable information: other jurisdictions.
provide additional disclosures when DTR 4.1 statement compliance with the specific requirements Each of the Directors, the names and functions in IFRS is insufficient to enable users of whom are set out on pages 34 and 35, tounderstand the impact of particular confirms that, to the best of their knowledge, transactions, other events and conditions they have complied with the above on the Groups financial position and requirements in preparing the financial financial performance: and statements in accordance with applicable accounting standards and that the financial state that the Group has complied statements give a true and fair view of the withIFRS, subject to any material assets, liabilities, financial position and departures disclosed and explained profit of the Group and the Company and inthe financial statements.
of the Groups income statement for that In preparing the Company financial period.
In addition, each of the Directors statements, the Directors are required to: confirms that the strategic report represented by the Directors report includes a fair review select suitable accounting policies of the development and performance of the andapply them consistently: business and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description make judgements and estimates that are ofthe principal risks and uncertainties reasonable and prudent: thatit faces.
68 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017
