Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Stockholders and Board of Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Opinion on the Groups consolidated financial statements We have audited the accompanying Group Balance Sheet of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiaries the Group as of December31, 2017 and 2016, the related Group Income Statement, Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group Statement of Changes in Equity, and Group Cash Flow Statement for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes collectively, the Groups consolidated financial statements.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2017, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Basis for opinion These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Groups management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Group in accordance with the US federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.
Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
We have served as the Groups auditor since 2015.
KPMG LLP London, United Kingdom February 21, 2018 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 105
