Additional disclosures Additional risks for the Group A summary of other risks for the Group which are not considered principal risks, but are monitored by the Board through the Groups risk register, and potential their impact, is set out below.
The principal risks facing the Group are set out at pages 48 to 54.
Inability to launch innovative products that offer consumers meaningful value-added differentiation The Group may be unsuccessful in launching innovative products that offer consumers meaningful value-added differentiation, leading to a failure to capture growth opportunities, compete in strategic consumer segments and capture synergistic benefits from having strong brands across our markets, and the risk of under or over-supply, loss of competitive advantage, unrecoverable costs and or erosion of our consumer base.
Risk of disruption to the Groups data and information technology systems, including compromise by cyber-attack The Groups increasing reliance on digital and information technology means that a significant disruption, malicious manipulation or cyberattack of the Groups systems, including those managed by third-party service providers, or unintended or malicious behaviour by employees, contractors or service providers, may affect the Groups communications and operations.
Data including confidential, personal or other sensitive information stored or communicated by IT systems may be corrupted, lost or disclosed, which may cause reputational, competitive or operational damage, fraudulent abuse, malicious manipulation or legal liability and may result in significant remediation costs, prosecution by enforcement bodies, fines and or penalties and other costs to the Group.
Exposure to availability of and price volatility in tobacco leaf and other raw materials Raw materials and other inputs used in the Groups businesses are subject to price volatility.
The Groups results of operations are exposed to fluctuations in the availability and price of tobacco leaf and other commodities required in cigarette manufacture.
The Groups access to raw materials may be adversely affected by a significant event occurring in one or more major leaf growing areas, including climate instability or diseases causing crop failure, which may have a negative impact on the Groups business, such as decreased quantity and or quality of leaf, increased prices, reallocation of growing areas and factories or supply-chain disruptions.
Commodity price, quality and quantity changes beyond the Groups control may affect its profitability and business.
The Group may not be able to increase prices to offset increased costs without suffering reduced sales volume and income, or meet increased demand for certain types of tobacco.
Risk of loss of production capacity or key suppliers, distribution interruption, commodity risk, problems with labour relations, orsignificant disaster Severe disruption to any aspect of the Groups supply chain or suppliers operations or deterioration in the financial condition of a trading partner may have an adverse impact on the Groups ability to produce and deliver products meeting customer demands and could ultimately have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions of the Group, through increased costs, loss of market share and profit.
Continuing industry consolidation among distributors and suppliers may lead to reduced efficiency, higher costs and concentrated risk of supply chain interruptions, contract disputes and systems and logistics failures.
In some markets, distribution of the Groups products is through third party monopoly channels, often licensed by governments.
The Group may be unable to renew these third-party supplier and distribution agreements on satisfactory terms for numerous reasons, including government regulations, and loss of distribution may adversely affect the Groups sales volume, market share and profits.
Any deterioration in labour or union relations, or any disputes or work stoppages or other labour related developments may increase costs and disrupt the Groups business.
Disasters such as a major fire, violent weather conditions or other disasters that affect manufacturing or other facilities of the Group may have a material adverse effect on the operations of the Group, through increased costs and the loss of market share and profit in the event of loss of or insufficient production capacity to supply its products or meet increased demand.
Failure to successfully design, implement and sustain an integrated operating model Failure by the Group to successfully design, implement and sustain an integrated operating model and organisational structure, or to deliver associated cost savings, may lead to the failure to realise anticipated benefits, increased costs, disruption to operations, decreased trading performance and reduced market share, which in turn may reduce profitability and funds available for investment in long-term growth opportunities.
Inability to achieve growth through successful mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures The Group may be unable to acquire attractive businesses on favourable terms and may inappropriately value or otherwise fail to capitalise on growth opportunities.
The Group may not be able to deliver strategic objectives and revenue improvements from business combinations, successfully integrate businesses it acquires or establishes, or obtain appropriate regulatory approvals for business combinations.
These risks may result in increased costs, decreased revenues, a loss of opportunities, and a diversion of focus and resources from other strategic goals.
The Group may become liable for claims arising in respect of conduct prior to the merger or acquisition of businesses if deemed to be a successor to the liabilities of the acquired company, and any resulting adverse judgment against the Group may adversely affect its business.
Risk of non-compliance with markets tobacco and nicotine-related legislation Increasing scope and severity of compliance regimes introduced by new regulation for the advertising, sale and consumption of tobacco and nicotine products may lead to higher costs and greater complexity, and potential reputational damage, product recall, regulatory sanctions or fines in connection with inadvertent breach.
Please refer to pages 228 to 231 for details of tobacco and nicotine regulation regimes under which the Groups businesses operate.
Failure to uphold high standards of corporate behaviour could subject the Group to potential liability under anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and other applicable laws and regulations Failure by the Group or its counterparties to comply with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and other applicable laws and regulations, may result in legal liability, significant fines and or penalties, criminal sanctions against the Group, its officers and employees, increased costs, prohibitions on conduct of the Groups business, and damage to the Groups reputation.
Even when proven untrue, there are often financial costs and reputational impacts in defending against such claims.
Please refer to page 55 of the Directors Report for a description of certain investigations to which we are subject.
226 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Failure to establish and maintain adequate controls and procedures over financial reporting The acquisition of RAI resulted in the Group becoming subject to US securities, corporate governance and compliance laws and regulations, different from regulations that applied to the Group prior to the acquisition.
Current and future US regulations may have an adverse effect on the results of operations, cash flows and financial position of the Group, and the increased scope and severity of new regulations may lead to higher costs and greater complexity, legal liability, significant fines and or penalties, criminal sanctions against the Group, its officers and employees, and damage to the Groups reputation in connection with inadvertent breach of applicable laws and regulations.
Risk of potential liability under competition or antitrust laws Failure by the Group to comply with competition or antitrust laws may result in legal liability, significant fines, penalties and or damages actions, criminal sanctions against the Group, its officers and employees, increased costs, prohibitions on conduct of the Groups business, director disqualifications, commercial agreements being held void, and damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group is currently subject to a number of ongoing competition law investigations.
Risk of potential liability under sanctions laws and regulations National and international sanction regimes affect certain jurisdictions where the Group operates and or the Groups counterparties operate, which may lead to supply chain or payment chain disruption and forced market exits.
Failure by the Group to comply with sanctions laws and regulations may result in legal liability, significant fines and or penalties, criminal sanctions against the Group, its officers and employees, increased costs, prohibitions on conduct of the Groups business, and damage to the Groups reputation.
Changes in corporate tax rates The Groups earnings may be impacted by changing corporate tax rates around the world.
Risks associated with failing to successfully integrate RAI Companies into the Groups business The Group may fail to successfully integrate RAI Companies into the Groups business.
This may result in disruption and loss of focus on the business due to diversion of the attention of management and resources, the failure to deliver expected cost synergies, and an inability to retain key personnel, which may adversely impact the Groups business operations, or the combined businesses may not otherwise perform as expected.
The Groups business may be negatively affected by the economic conditions in the EU The default, or a significant decline in the credit rating, of one or more sovereigns or financial institutions, as well as the breakup of or exit from the EU and or eurozone by the UK or any other member state may cause severe stress in the financial system generally and on the euro and other European currencies, may disrupt the banking system, and adversely affect markets in which the Group operates and the economic condition of the Groups counterparties, customers, suppliers and creditors in ways which are difficult to predict.
These risks, alone or in combination with regulatory changes, including devaluation of local currencies or increased inflation, or actions of market participants, may increase the Groups exposure to foreign exchange rate risks and may cause a loss of competitiveness from increased production cost and lower revenue, increased customer down-trading, significant write-downs of stock and growth in illicit trade.
Risk of contamination of the Groups products The Groups market position may be affected through the contamination of its products, either by accident or deliberate malicious intent during supply chain or manufacturing processes, or may otherwise fail to comply with the Groups quality standards.
This may lead to disruption to production, product recall, increased costs, loss of market share, legal liability, significant fines and or penalties, and damage to the Groups reputation, and may adversely impact sales volume, market share and profitability.
Exposure to intellectual property rights infringements and risk to Group licenses to use certain brands and trademarks The Group risks being exposed to intellectual property rights infringements by third parties due to limitations in judicial protection and or inadequate enforceability in some markets in which the Group operates.
Any resulting substantial erosion in the value of the Groups brands, or failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of intellectual property rights for any reasons, may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
In addition, as third-party rights are not always identifiable, the Group may also be subject to claims for infringement of third party intellectual property rights, which may result in legal liability, damages, negative impact on reputation and disruption to the business.
Some brands and trademarks under which the Groups products are sold are licensed for a fixed period of time in certain markets.
If any of these licences are terminated or not renewed after the end of the applicable term, the Group would no longer have the right to use, and to sell products under, those brand s and trademark s in the relevant markets which may have an adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
The Group has net liabilities under retirement benefit schemes of the Group which may increase in the future due to a number of factors The Group currently maintains and contributes to defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans that cover various categories of employees and retirees worldwide, and obligations to make contributions to fund benefit obligations under these arrangements is based on actuarial valuations on certain assumptions, including long-term return on plan assets and discount rate.
Changes in asset returns, salary increases, inflation, long-term interest rates, life expectancies, population trends and other actuarial assumptions may have an adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and operations, which may adversely affect its credit rating and ability to raise funds.
Please refer to note 12 in the Notes on the Accounts for details of the Groups retirement benefit schemes.
Exposure to counterparty risks Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk on the amounts due from counterparties.
Failure of any counterparty to meet the Groups payment obligations or performance undertakings to it or deterioration in the financial condition of one or more of its counterparties may have an adverse effect on the Groups financial condition or operations.
Risk of loss of key personnel or inability to attract and retain the best global talent Unanticipated losses of key employees or the inability to identify, attract, develop and retain qualified personnel in the future may adversely impact on the Groups business operations.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 227
