Additional disclosures Disclosure pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 ITRA Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 added Section 13 r to the Exchange Act.
Section 13 r requires an issuer to disclose in its annual or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or with designated natural persons or entities sanctioned under programmes relating to terrorism or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Disclosure is required even where the activities, transactions or dealings are conducted outside the US by non-US affiliates in compliance with applicable law, and whether or not the activities are sanctionable under US law.
As of the date of this report, BAT is not aware of any activity, transaction or dealing by the Group or any of its affiliates during the financial year ended 31 December 2017 that is disclosable under Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 and Section 13 r of the Exchange Act, except as set forth below.
This information is to the best of BATs knowledge.
BAT has a local operation in Iran, established on 18 October 2003, through its wholly owned non-US subsidiary, B.
A. T. Pars Company Private Joint Stock BAT Pars.
BAT Pars produces most of the products it sells in Iran, which include Kent, Pall Mall and Montana brands, in its own factory in Eshtehard, which is in the Alborz province of Iran.
A minor volume of Dunhill product was imported from Russia in 2017 as it was not possible to produce this locally.
BAT Pars distributes its product via 108 sub-agents with national and provincial distribution licenses, who sell products to wholesalers and retailers with the support of BAT Pars sales representatives.
BAT Pars has 283 direct employees and an additional 1,100 contract workers supplied by a private company.
Concerning the business of BAT Pars, various elements such as income tax, payroll, social security, other taxes, excise, monopoly fees, duties and other fees, including for utilities, licenses and judicial fees to commence litigation, are payable to the Government of Iran and affiliated entities regarding BAT Pars operation.
In 2017, BAT Pars paid some debts to the Iranian Tobacco Company which is majority owned by the Government of Iran or affiliated entities relating to contract manufacturing services provided to BAT Pars in the period 2014 to 2016.
BAT Pars maintains bank accounts in Iran with various banks to facilitate its operations in the country and to make any required payments, as described above, to the Government of Iran and affiliated entities regarding its operations.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, BAT did not have any gross revenues or net profits derived from transactions with the Government of Iran or affiliated entities.
BAT believes, and maintains policies and procedures designed to ensure that, its activities in Iran and elsewhere comply in all material aspects with the applicable and relevant trade sanctions laws and regulations, including US and other international trade sanctions and or embargoes.
BATs sanctions policies and procedures have been designed to be as robust as possible.
However, there can be no absolute assurance that these policies and procedures will be effective.
While we believe the imposition of penalties or sanctions against BAT for its activities in Iran by the relevant authorities would be an unlikely event, the impact of such penalties or sanctions, if imposed, could be material.
To the extent permitted under applicable law, BAT Pars activities in Iran are expected to continue.
232 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
