Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Controls and procedures Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures Disclosure Controls and Procedures The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports the Company files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Companys Chief Executive and Finance Director, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, our management, including the Companys Chief Executive and Finance Director, recognise that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.
Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Group have been detected.
The Groups disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, reasonable assurance standards.
The Companys management, with the participation of the Companys Chief Executive and Finance Director, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.
Based on that evaluation, the Companys Chief Executive and Finance Director have concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level.
Managements annual report on internal control over financial reporting and attestation report of the registered public accounting firm This annual report does not include a report of managements assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of the Companys registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the SEC for newly public companies.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting In July 2017, BAT completed its acquisition of RAI.
As part of the post-closing integration, the Group is engaged in refining and harmonising the internal controls and processes of the acquired business with those of BAT.
Statements regarding competitive position Statements referring to the competitive position of BAT and its subsidiaries are based on the Groups belief and best estimates.
In certain cases, such statements and figures rely on a range of sources, including investment analyst reports, independent market surveys, and the Groups own internal assessments of market share.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 237
