Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information American Depositary Shares Fees and charges payable by ADS holders Citibank, N. A. Citibank was appointed as the depositary bank the Depositary for BATs ADS programme pursuant to the Amended and Restated Deposit Agreement dated 1 December 2008 and amended as of 14 February 2017 and 14 June 2017 between BAT, the Depositary and the owners and holders of ADSs the Deposit Agreement.
The Deposit Agreement provides that ADS holders may be required to pay various fees to the Depositary, and the Depositary may refuse to provide any service for which a fee is assessed until the applicable fee has been paid.
Service Fees 1 Issuance of ADSs upon deposit of ordinary shares excluding issuances Up to US$0.05 per ADS issued as a result of distributions of shares described below 1 Cancellation of ADSs Up to US$0.05 per ADS surrendered 2 Distribution of cash dividends or other cash distributions i. e. sale of Up to US$0.05 per ADS held rights and other entitlements Distribution of ADSs pursuant to 1 stock dividends or other free stock Up to US$0.05 per ADS held distributions, or 2 exercise of rights to purchase additional BAT ADSs Distribution of securities other than ADSs or rights to purchase Up to US$0.05 per ADS held additional ADSs i. e. spinoff shares Depositary bank services Up to US$0.05 per ADS held Notes: 1 Under the terms of a separate agreement between BAT and the Depositary, the Depositary has agreed to waive the fees that would otherwise be payable in connection with the issuance of ADSs upon deposit of ordinary shares and the cancellation of ADSs and corresponding withdrawal of ordinary shares, in each case by BAT or any of its affiliates, officers, directors or employees.
The terms of this separate agreement may be amended at any time by BAT and the Depositary.
2 While under the Deposit Agreement cash dividends paid in respect of ADSs are subject to a fee of up to $0.05 per ADS payable to the Depositary, under the terms of the separate agreement between BAT and the Depositary referred to above, such dividends are instead subject to a fee of up to $0.02 per ADS per year a fee of $0.01 per dividend based on the distribution of an interim and a final cash dividend per year or a fee of $0.005 per dividend based on the distribution of four quarterly cash dividends per year.
Under the separate agreement, this dividend fee may not be varied by the Depositary without the consent of BAT.
Contact details for Citibank Shareholder Services are on page 262.
In addition, ADS holders may be required under the Deposit Agreement to pay the Depositary: a taxes including applicable interest and penalties and other governmental charges: b registration fees: c certain cable, telex and facsimile transmission and delivery expenses: d theexpenses and charges incurred by the Depositary in the conversion of foreign currency: e such fees and expenses as are incurred by the Depositary in connection with compliance with exchange control regulations and other regulatory requirements: and f the fees and expenses incurred by the Depositary, the custodian or any nominee in connection with the servicing or delivery of deposited securities.
The Depositary may: a withhold dividends or other distributions or sell any or all of the shares underlying the ADSs in order to satisfy any tax or governmental charge: and b deduct from any cash distribution the applicable fees and charges of, and expenses incurred by, the Depositary and any taxes, duties or other governmental charges on account.
Fees and payments made by the Depositary to BAT Under the terms of the contractual arrangements set out in the separate agreement between BAT and the Depositary referred to above, BATreceived a total of approximately US$2.8 million from the Depositary, comprising US$2.2 million arising out of fees charged in respect of dividends and a net amount of US$0.6 million from a fixed contribution to BATs ADS programme administration costs for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In 2017, these programme administration costs principally included those associated with annual general meeting proxy mailings: exchange listing and regulatory fees: foreign private issuer analysis: legal fees: share registration fees: and other expenses incurred by BAT in relation to the ADS programme.
Under these contractual arrangements, the Depositary has also agreed to waive certain standard fees associated with the administration of the ADS programme.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 261
