Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets arising 1 Accounting policies in a business combination and the allocation of the purchase Basis of preparation consideration between the underlying net assets acquired, including The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS values.
These estimates are prepared in conjunction with the advice as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, of independent valuation experts where appropriate.
The relevant IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and in accordance transactions for 2017, 2016 and 2015 are described in note 24. with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to The critical accounting judgements include: companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The differences have the definition of adjusting items, which are separately disclosed as no impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements for the memorandum information, is explained below and the impact of periods presented.
these on the calculation of adjusted earnings is described in note7: The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going the determination as to whether control subsidiaries, joint control concern basis under the historical cost convention except as described joint arrangements, or significant influence associates exists in the accounting policy below on financial instruments.
in relation to the investments held by the Group.
This is assessed after taking into account the Groups ability to appoint directors The Group has adopted the Amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash to the entitys board, its relative shareholding compared with Flows with effect from 1 January 2017.
This amendment requires other shareholders, any significant contracts or arrangements with reporting entities to provide disclosures that enable users of financial the entity or its other shareholders and other relevant facts and statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing circumstances: and activities, by disclosing changes arising from cash flows as well as non-cash changes.
These additional disclosures have been added the review of applicable exchange rates for transactions with and tonote 20. translation of entities in territories where there are restrictions on the free access to foreign currency, or multiple exchange rates.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial circumstances and constitute managements best judgement at the statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience the accounting policies below, together with the related notes to may deviate from these estimates and assumptions, which could the accounts.
affect the financial statements as the original estimates and assumptions are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which the The critical accounting estimates include: circumstances change.
the review of asset values, especially goodwill and impairment These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by testing.
The key assumptions used in respect of goodwill and the Board of Directors on 21 February 2018. impairment testing are the determination of cash-generating units, the budgeted cash flows of these units, the long-term growth rate Basis of consolidation for cash flow projections and the rate used to discount the cash flow The consolidated financial information includes the financial projections.
These are described in note 9: statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiary the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
undertakings, collectively the Group, together with the Groups The determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, as share of the results of its associates and joint arrangements.
well as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in other A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
The Group controls comprehensive income, involves judgements made in conjunction an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable with independent actuaries.
These involve estimates about uncertain returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect future events based on the environment in different countries, those returns through its power over the entity.
including life expectancy of scheme members, salary and pension increases, inflation, as well as discount rates and asset values at the Associates comprise investments in undertakings, which are not year end.
The assumptions used by the Group and sensitivity analysis subsidiary undertakings or joint arrangements, where the Groups are described in note 12: interest in the equity capital is long term and over whose operating and financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence.
the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of taxation They are accounted for using the equity method.
and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for liabilities and charges are subject to uncertain future events, may extend Joint arrangements comprise contractual arrangements where two over several years and so the amount and or timing may differ from or more parties have joint control and where decisions regarding current assumptions.
The accounting policy for taxation is explained the relevant activities of the entity require unanimous consent.
The recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together Joint operations are jointly-controlled arrangements where the with a note of unrecognised amounts, are shown in note 13, and a parties to the arrangement have rights to the underlying assets and contingent tax asset is explained in note 6 b.
Other provisions for obligations for the underlying liabilities relating to the arrangement.
liabilities and charges are as set out in note 21.
The accounting policy The Group accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, income on contingent liabilities, which are not provided for, is set out below and expenses of any such arrangement.
Joint ventures comprise and the contingent liabilities of the Group are explained in note 28. arrangements where the parties to the arrangement have rights to The application of these accounting policies to the payments made the net assets of the arrangement.
They are accounted for using the and credits recognised under the Master Settlement Agreement by equity method.
Reynolds American Inc. RAI is described in note 3 d : and 112 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
