Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Material contracts Merger with RAI On 16 January 2017, BAT entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with RAI, BATUS Holdings Inc. an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of BAT, and Flight Acquisition Corporation Merger Sub, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of BAT, as it and the plan of merger contained therein were amended as of 8 June 2017, pursuant to which, upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, on 25 July 2017, Merger Sub was merged with and into RAI, with RAI surviving as an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of BAT.
Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement and at the effective time of the merger, each share of RAI common stock other than shares of RAI common stock owned by BAT and its subsidiaries or owned by holders who were excluded because such holders properly asserted their rights of appraisal, was automatically converted into the right to receive i a number of BAT ADSs, representing 0.5260 of an ordinary share, nominal value 25 pence, of BAT, plus ii US$29.44 in cash, without interest.
Based on the per share closing price of a BAT ADS of US$69.25, as quoted on the NYSE on 24 July 2017 at the time of the NYSE market close, the implied per share value of the merger consideration was approximately US$65.87.
The Master Settlement Agreement & State Settlement Agreements In 1998, the major US cigarette manufacturers including R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Lorillard and Brown & Williamson, businesses which are now part of Reynolds American entered into the Master Settlement Agreement MSA with attorneys general representing most US states and territories.
The MSA imposes a perpetual stream of future payment obligations on the major US cigarette manufacturers.
The amounts of money that the participating manufacturers are required to annually contribute are based upon, amongst other things, the volume of cigarettes sold and market share based on cigarette shipments in that year.
During 2013, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, various other tobacco manufacturers, 20 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico reached a final agreement related to Reynolds Americans 2003 Master Settlement Agreement MSA activities.
Under this agreement R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company will receive credits, currently estimated to be more than US$1 billion, in respect of its Non-Participating Manufacturer NPM Adjustment claims related to the period from 2003 to 2012.
These credits have been and will be applied against the companys MSA payments over a period of five years from 2013, subject to, and dependent upon, meeting the various ongoing performance obligations.
During 2014, two additional states agreed to settle NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2003 to 2012.
It is estimated that R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company will receive US$170 million in credits, which will be applied over a five-year period from 2014.
During 2015, another state agreed to settle NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2004 to 2014.
It is estimated that R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company will receive US$285 million in credits, which will be applied over a four-year period from 2015.
During 2016, no additional states agreed to settle NPM disputes.
During 2017, two more states agreed to settle NPM disputes related to claims for the period 2004 to 2014.
It is estimated that R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company will receive US$61 million in credits, which will be applied over a five year period from 2017.
Credits in respect of future years payments and the NPM Adjustment claims would be accounted for in the applicable year and will not be treated as adjusting items.
Only credits in respect of prior year payments are included as adjusting items.
The BAT Group is subject to substantial payment obligations under the MSA and the state settlement agreements with the states of Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota such settlement agreements, collectively State Settlement Agreements.
RAIs operating subsidiaries expenses and payments under the MSA and the State Settlement Agreements for 2017 amounted to US$2,856 million in respect of settlement expenses and US$4,612 million in respect of settlement cash payments.
Change of control provisions as at 31 December 2017 Significant Agreements Nature of Agreement Key provisions The revolving credit facilities agreement effective 25 July 2017 and should a borrower other than the Company cease to be a direct or entered into between the Company, B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. indirect subsidiary of the Company, such borrower shall immediately B.
A. T. Netherlands Finance B. V. British American Tobacco Holdings repay any outstanding advances made to it: The Netherlands B. V. and B.
A. T Capital Corporation as borrowers where there is a change of control in respect of the Company, the and, in the case of the Company, as a guarantor and HSBC Bank plc lenders can require all amounts outstanding under the Facility to as agent and certain financial institutions as lenders, pursuant to be repaid.
which the lenders agreed to make available to the borrowers 6 billion for general corporate purposes the Facility.
Term loan facilities agreement dated 16 January 2017: B.
A. T. should a borrower cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the International Finance p. l. c. and B.
A. T Capital Corporation Company, such borrower shall immediately repay any outstanding as borrowers, the Company, as guarantor and HSBC Bank plc as advances made to it: agent and certain financial institutions as lenders pursuant to which where there is a change of control in respect of the Company, the the lenders agreed to make available to the borrowers US$25 billion for lenders can require all amounts outstanding under the term loan the acquisition of RAI.
Facilities A and B have been repaid and facilities facilities to be repaid.
C and D, totalling the sterling equivalent of US$5 billion, are still outstanding.
Packaging Materials Agreement dated 8 April 2015, between Souza that either party may terminate the agreement in the event of any Cruz S. A. and Amcor Group GmBH for the production and supply of direct or indirect acquisition of at least 25% of the voting shares of packaging for a value of R$1,500,000,000.
the supplier and or its affiliates by directly or indirectly a competitor of Souza Cruz S. A. importer or distributor.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 233 Additional disclosures Material contracts continued Nature of Agreement Key provisions On 25 July 2017, the Company acceded as a guarantor under the with respect to each series of debt securities issued under the indenture of its indirect, wholly owned subsidiary RAI.
The securities indenture, upon a change of control event, combined with a credit issued under the indenture include approximately $12.7 billion ratings downgrade of the series to below investment grade level aggregate principal amount of unsecured RAI debt securities.
such downgrade occurring on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a change of control event until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a change of control event, RAI is obligated to make an offer to repurchase all debt securities from each holder of debt securities.
As a guarantor under the indenture, the Company guarantees such payments.
Long-Term Incentive Plans The rules of the long-term incentive plans 2007 and 2016 the LTIPs.
in the event of a change of control of the Company as a result of a takeover, reconstruction or winding-up of the Company not being an internal reorganisation, LTIP awards will become exercisable for a limited period based on the period of time that has elapsed since the date of the award and the achievement of the performance conditions at that date, unless the Remuneration Committee determines this not to be appropriate in the circumstances: the rules of the LTIPs allow as an alternative to early release that participants may, if permitted, exchange their LTIP awards for new awards of shares in the acquiring company on a comparable basis.
234 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
