80 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The current Directors who are listed on pages 48 and 49 are Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance applicable law and regulations.
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company from legislation inother jurisdictions.
financial statements on the same basis.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial of the annual financial report statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or arerequired to: loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consolidation taken as a whole: and consistently: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and prudent: and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and state whether they have been prepared in accordance with uncertainties that they face.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Parent Company will continue in business.
position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Jeff Fairburn Mike Killoran Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 26 February 2018 at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 15 Fin Statements v35.
