Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies Groups results are likely to occur from Currently, as recoverable amounts adoptedin the preparation of these period to period.
The critical judgements exceed carrying values, including financial statements are set out below.
required when preparing the Groups goodwill, there is thus no impairment These policies have been consistently accounts are as follows: within a reasonable range applied to all the years presented, ofassumptions.
Goodwill arising on i Provisions as disclosed in note 20, unlessotherwise stated.
acquisition is allocated to the CGU theGroup has made provision for thatis expected to benefit from the Basis of preparation potential environmental liabilities.
Such The consolidated financial statements Therationale behind these and other goodwill is then incorporated into the havebeen prepared under the historical provisions is discussed in note 20, with Groups standard impairment review cost convention, in accordance with consideration of contingent liabilities process as described above.
International Financial Reporting Standards disclosed in note 28.
The Directors Interpretations Committee IFRSIC and believe that these provisions are iii Retirement benefit liabilities as theCompanies Act 2006 applicable appropriate based on information disclosed in note 11, the Groups tocompanies reporting under IFRS.
principal retirement benefit schemes Thestandards used are those published are of the defined benefit type.
Year ii Goodwill and fair value of assets bythe International Accounting Standards end recognition of the liabilities under acquired note 12 under IFRS, Board IASB and endorsed by the EU these schemes and the valuation of management are required to undertake atthe 31 December 2017.
A summary of assets held to fund these liabilities an annual test for impairment of the more important Group accounting require a number of significant indefinite lived assets such as goodwill.
policies is set out below.
assumptions to be made, relating Accordingly, the Group tests annually to levels of scheme membership, Going concern whether goodwill has suffered any key financial market indicators The financial statements which appear impairment and the Groups goodwill such as inflation and expectations onpages 88 to 125 have been prepared value has been supported by detailed on future salary growth and asset onagoing concern basis as, after making value-in-use calculations relating to the returns.
These assumptions are made appropriate enquiries, including a review recoverable amounts of the underlying by the Group in conjunction with offorecasts, budgets and banking facilities, Cash Generating Units CGUs.
These the schemes actuaries and the the Directors have a reasonable expectation calculations require the use of Directors are of the view that any that the Group has adequate resources to estimates to enable the calculation of estimation should be prudent continue in operational existence.
the net present value of cash flow and in line with consensus opinion.
projections of the relevant CGU, the Accounting estimates and judgements critical estimates are as follows: iv Taxation the Group is subject to The Groups significant accounting policies corporate income taxes in numerous under IFRS have been set by management Growth in EBITDA calculated as jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is with the approval of the Audit Committee.
operating profit before depreciation often required in determining the The application of these policies requires and amortisation estimated at 3% worldwide expense and liability for such estimates and assumptions to be made long term, a prudent estimate given taxes, including consideration of the concerning the future and judgements to the Groups historical growth rates potential impact of transfer pricing.
be made on the applicability of policies to Timing and quantum of capital There are many transactions and particular situations.
Estimates and expenditure estimated to grow calculations where the ultimate tax judgements are continually evaluated and from current levels at the same determination is uncertain during the are based on historical experience and 3%rate ordinary course of business.
The other factors, including expectations of Group recognises liabilities for tax Selection of appropriate discount future events that are believed to be issues based on estimates of whether rates to reflect the risks involved reasonable under the circumstances.
additional taxes will be due, based on typically the Groups weighted Under IFRS an estimate or judgement may its best interpretation of the relevant average cost of capital would be be considered critical if it involves matters tax laws and rules.
Where the final tax used as a starting point unless that are highly uncertain or where different outcome of these matters is different therisk profile of a particular estimation methods could reasonably have from the amounts that were initially acquired business warranted been used, or if changes in the estimate recorded, such differences will impact different treatment.
that would have a material impact on the the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93 Financial Statements | Group Accounting Policies Changes in accounting policy obtain the benefits from the good or cash flows, although the impact on the i New and amended standards adopted service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 latter will not be material based on initial bythe Group for the first time for Revenue and IAS 11 Construction estimates.
Some existing operating thefinancial year beginning on contracts and related interpretations.
lease commitments are expected to be 1January 2017: The standard is effective for annual covered by the exception for short term periods beginning on or after 1 January and low-value leases.
There are no IFRSs or IFRIC 2018, with earlier application permitted.
interpretations that are effective for The Group does not intend to restate The Group has completed a detailed annual periods beginning after prior year comparators when the new assessment of IFRS 15 and has 1 January 2017 that have had a standard is adopted, with lease asset concluded that the impact will not be material impact on the Group.
values being set equal to lease liabilities material to the Groups revenue and at the date of transition in line with the ii New standards and interpretations profit.
This reflects the relatively simplified approach under IFRS 16. notyet adopted a number of new non-complex and largely standardised standards and amendments to terms and conditions applicable There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC standards and interpretations are to the Groups revenue contracts.
interpretations that are not yet effective effective for annual periods beginning Accordingly, the Group does not intend that would be expected to have a on or after 1 January 2018, and have to restate prior year comparators material impact on the Group in the not been applied in preparing these when the new standard is adopted.
current or future reporting periods and consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 16, Leases will require lessees to Those most relevant to the consolidated recognise a lease liability reflecting Group accounts financial statements of the Group are future lease payments and a right-ofGeneral information set out below: use asset for virtually all lease Croda International Plc is a public limited IFRS 9, Financial Instruments contracts.
Under IAS 17, lessees are company, which is listed on the London includes requirements for classification required to make a distinction between Stock Exchange and incorporated and measurement, impairment and a finance lease on balance sheet and anddomiciled in the United Kingdom.
an operating lease off balance sheet.
It is registered in England and Wales The IASB has included an optional and theaddress of its registered office It replaces the classification and exemption for certain short term leases canbefound on page 142. measurement models for financial and leases of low value assets: instruments in IAS 39 with three Subsidiaries however, this exemption can only be classification categories: amortised Subsidiaries are all entities including applied by lessees.
The standard is cost, fair value through profit or structured entities over which the Parent effective for annual periods beginning loss and fair value through other Company has control.
The Parent controls on or after 1 January 2019. comprehensive income.
The standard an entity when it is exposed to, or will become effective for periods ending has rights to, variable returns from its The Group will complete its IFRS 16 on or after 1 January 2018, subject involvement with the entity and has the implementation work over the next to EU endorsement.
The Group has ability to affect those returns through its twelve months.
The Group does not assessed the impact of IFRS 9 and power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are intend to early adopt IFRS 16, having concluded that it will not have a fully consolidated from the date on which already undertaken a significant review.
material impact, consistent with the control is transferred to the Group.
The new standard will result in most of non-complex nature of the Groups They are deconsolidated from the date the Groups current operating leases financial instruments.
as defined under IAS 17 being IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts The Group uses the acquisition recognised on balance sheet.
As deals with revenue recognition and method of accounting to account for at the reporting date, the Group had establishes principles for reporting business combinations.
The consideration non-cancellable operating lease useful information to users of financial transferred for the acquisition of a commitments of 30.7m as shown in statements about the nature, amount, subsidiary is the fair value of the assets note 14.
However, the Group has not timing and uncertainty of revenue and transferred, the liabilities incurred and yet fully determined to what extent cash flows arising from an entitys the equity interests issued by the these commitments will result in the contracts with customers.
Acquisition costs are expensed recognition of an asset and a liability for recognised when a customer obtains as incurred.
future payments and how this will affect control of a good or service and thus the Groups profit and classification of has the ability to direct the use and Croda International Plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities value in use.
Value in use is estimated with products in development are subject and contingent liabilities assumed, in a reference to estimated future cash flows to impairment testing at each balance business combination are measured discounted to net present value using a sheet date or earlier upon indication of initially at their fair values at the acquisition discount rate that reflects the risks specific impairment.
Any impairment losses are date, irrespective of the extent of any to the CGU.
Typically the Groups weighted written off to the income statement.
The excess of the cost average cost of capital would be used as a Computer software of acquisition over the Groups share starting point unless the risk profile of a Acquired computer software licences of identifiable net assets acquired is particular acquired business warranted covering a period of greater than one recorded as goodwill.
The Group uses yearare capitalised on the basis of the prudent growth estimates that track below Inter-company transactions, balances costs incurred to acquire and bring to the Groups historical growth rates.
and unrealised gains on transactions usethe specific software.
These costs between Group companies are eliminated.
Other intangible assets arising areamortised over their estimated Unrealised losses are also eliminated.
onacquisition usefullives three to seven years.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have On acquisition, intangible assets other than Revenue recognition been changed where necessary to ensure goodwill are recognised if they can be Sale of goods consistency with the policies adopted by identified through being separable from the Revenue comprises the fair value for the the Group.
acquired entity or arising from specific sale of goods, excludes inter-company contractual or legal rights.
Transactions with sales and value-added taxes and non-controlling interests Once recognised, such intangible assets represents net invoice value less estimated The Group treats transactions with will be initially valued using either the rebates, returns and settlement discounts.
non-controlling interests as transactions market approach where a well-defined The Group supplies products to customers with the equity owners of the Group.
For external market for the asset exists, the from its various manufacturing sites and purchases from non-controlling interests, income approach which looks at the warehouses and in some limited instances the difference between any consideration future income the asset will generate or from consignment inventory held on paid and the relevant share acquired the cost approach the cost of replacing customer sites, under a variety of standard of the carrying value of net assets of the the asset, whichever is most relevant to terms and conditions.
In each case subsidiary is recorded as equity.
Gains the asset under consideration.
Following revenue is recognised when the transfer or losses on disposals to non-controlling initial recognition, the asset will be written of legal title, which is defined and generally interests are also recorded in equity.
down on a straight-line basis over its useful accepted in the standard terms and life.
Useful lives are regularly reviewed to conditions, arises between the Group Intangible assets ensure their continuing relevance.
This will typically be on Goodwill Research and development dispatch or delivery.
Provisions for sales On the acquisition of a business, fair values Research expenditure, undertaken with discounts and rebates to customers are are attributed to the net assets acquired.
the prospect of gaining new scientific or based upon the terms of sales contracts Goodwill arises where the fair value of the technical knowledge and understanding, and are recorded in the same period as the consideration given for a business exceeds is charged to the income statement related sales as a deduction from revenue.
Goodwill arising on in the year in which it is incurred.
Internal The Group estimates the provision for sales acquisitions is capitalised and carried at development expenditure, whereby discounts and rebates based on the terms cost less accumulated impairment losses.
research findings are applied to a plan of each agreement at the time the revenue Goodwill is subject to impairment review, for the production of new or substantially is recognised.
both annually and when there are improved products or processes, is indications that the carrying value may Royalties and profit charged to the income statement in not be recoverable.
For the purpose of sharingarrangements the year in which it is incurred unless it impairment testing, assets are grouped at Revenues are recognised on an accruals the lowest levels for which there are meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 basis in accordance with the substance separately identifiable cash flows, known Intangible Assets.
Measurement and other ofthe underlying agreement, subject as CGUs.
If the recoverable amount of the uncertainties generally mean that such toreliable measurement of the amounts.
CGU is less than the carrying value of the criteria are not met.
Where, however, the goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised recognition criteria are met, intangible immediately against the goodwill value.
assets are capitalised and amortised over The recoverable amount of the CGU is the their useful economic lives from product higher of fair value less costs to sell and launch.
Intangible assets relating to Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95 Financial Statements | Group Accounting Policies Interest and dividend income which they arise.
Actuarial gains and Currency translations Interest income is recognised on a losses are recognised in the statement Functional and presentation currency time-proportion basis using the effective of comprehensive income.
Payments to Items included in the financial statements interest method.
defined contribution schemes pension ofeach of the Groups entities are plans under which the Group pays fixed measured using the currency of the Dividend income is recognised when the contributions into a separate entity are primaryeconomic environment in which right to receive payment is established.
charged as an expense as they fall due.
theentity operates the functional Segmental reporting currency.
The consolidated financial Other post-retirement benefits An operating segment is a group statements are presented in Sterling, Some Group companies provide ofassetsand operations engaged in whichis the Companys functional post-retirement healthcare benefits to providing products and services that andpresentation currency.
The entitlement to these aresubject to risks or returns that are benefits is usually conditional on the Transactions and balances different from those of other segments.
employee remaining in service up to Monetary assets and liabilities are Operating segments presented in the retirement age and the completion of a translated at the exchange rates ruling financial statements are consistent minimum service period.
The expected atthe end of the financial period.
withtheinternal reporting provided to costs of these benefits are accrued over Exchangeprofits or losses on trading theGroups Chief Operating Decision the period of employment using an transactions are included in the Group Maker, which has been identified accounting methodology similar to that for income statement except when astheGroup Executive Committee.
Actuarial deferredinequity as qualifying cash Employee benefits gains and losses are recognised in the flowhedges and qualifying net Pension obligations statement of comprehensive income.
The Group accounts for pensions and These obligations are valued annually Group companies similar benefits under IAS 19 Employee byindependent qualified actuaries.
The results and financial position of all Benefits revised.
In respect of defined Termination benefits theGroup entities that have afunctional benefit plans pension plans that define an Termination benefits are payable currency different from the presentation amount of pension benefit that an whenemployment is terminated by currency are translated into the employee will receive on retirement, usually theGroup before the normal retirement presentation currency as follows: dependent on one or more factors such as date, or whenever an employee accepts age, years of service and compensation, i assets and liabilities for each balance voluntary redundancy in exchange for obligations are measured at discounted sheet presented are translated at these benefits.
The Group recognises present value whilst plan assets are theclosing rate at the date of that termination benefits when it is recorded at fair value.
The assets and balance sheet: demonstrably committed to either liabilities recognised in the balance sheet in ii income and expenses for each income i terminating the employment of current respect of defined benefit pension plans is statement are translated at average employees according to a detailed formal the net of plan obligations and assets.
A exchange rates unless this average plan without possibility of withdrawal scheme surplus is only recognised as an isnot a reasonable approximation or ii providing termination benefits as asset in the balance sheet when the Group ofthe cumulative effect of the rates aresultof an offer made to encourage has the unconditional right to future prevailing on the transaction dates, voluntary redundancy.
economic benefits in the form of a refund inwhich case income and expenses or a reduction in future contributions.
Share-based payments are translated at the dates of the No allowance is made in the past service The Group operates a number of cash transactions : and liability in respect of either the future andequity-settled, share-based incentive iii all resulting exchange differences are expenses of running the schemes or for schemes.
These are accounted for in recognised as a separate component non-service related death in service accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based of equity.
benefits which may arise in the future.
The Payments, which requires an expense operating costs of such plans are charged tobe recognised in the income statement On consolidation, exchange differences to operating profit and the finance costs over the vesting period of the options.
arising from the translation of the net are recognised as financial income or an Theexpense is based on the fair value investment in foreign entities, and of expense as appropriate.
ofeach instrument which is calculated borrowings and other currency instruments using the Black-Scholes or binomial designated as hedges of such investments, Service costs are spread systematically modelas appropriate.
Any expense are taken to shareholders equity.
over the lives of employees and financing isadjusted to reflect expected and costs are recognised in the periods in actuallevels of options vesting for nonmarket based performancecriteria.
Croda International Plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements When a foreign operation is sold, such Income statement presentation Impairment of non-financial assets exchange differences are recognised The acquisition in 2016 of Inventiva and in The Group assesses at each year end intheincome statement as part of the 2017 of Enza Biotech AB and IonPhasE whether an asset may be impaired.
OY, increased acquisition costs and If any evidence exists of impairment, amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
the estimated recoverable amount is Taxation If the right targets can be found, these compared to the carrying value of the asset The charge for taxation is based on the costs are likely to increase in the future.
and an impairment loss is recognised profit for the year and takes into account To avoid distorting the underlying trend in where appropriate.
The recoverable taxation deferred because of temporary profitability, the Group introduced the amount is the higher of an assets value differences between the treatment of definitions Adjusted operating profit, in use and fair value less costs to sell.
certain items for taxation and for Adjusted profit before tax and Adjusted In addition to this, goodwill is tested for accounting purposes.
In each case impairment at least annually.
Non-financial differences arise on differences between acquisition costs, amortisation or write-off assets other than goodwill which have the carrying value of assets and liabilities of intangible assets arising on acquisition suffered impairment are reviewed for in the financial statements and their tax and exceptional items, including the possible reversal of the impairment at base and primarily relate to the difference respective tax effect, are excluded.
between tax allowances on tangible fixed Group income statement has been assets and the corresponding depreciation Leases produced in a columnar format to further charge, and upon the net pension fund Assets acquired under finance leases aid this analysis.
Full provision is made for the tax areincluded in the balance sheet effects of these differences.
No provision Property, plant and equipment underproperty, plant and equipment is made for unremitted earnings of foreign Property, plant and equipment is stated at atanamount reflecting the lower of the subsidiaries where there is no commitment historical cost less depreciation, with the presentvalue of future rentals and to remit such earnings.
exception of assets acquired as part of a the fairvalue of the asset and are business combination.
Cost includes the depreciated over the shorter of the lease Similarly, no provision is made for original purchase price of the asset and the term and theirestimated useful lives.
temporary differences relating to costs attributable to bringing the asset to The capital element of future lease rentals investments in subsidiaries since realisation its working condition for its intended use.
Finance charges of such differences can be controlled and The Groups policy is to write-off the are allocated to the income statement is not probable in the foreseeable future.
difference between the cost of all property, each year in proportion to the capital Deferred tax assets are recognised, using plant and equipment, except freehold land, element outstanding.
the balance sheet liability method, to the and their residual value on a straight-line extent that it is probable that future taxable The cost of operating leases ischarged to basis over their estimated useful lives.
profit will be available against which the the income statement on astraight-line temporary differences can be utilised.
Reviews are made annually of the basis over the lease period.
estimated remaining lives and residual All taxation is calculated on the basis of the Derivative financial instruments values of individual productive assets, tax rates and laws enacted or substantively The Group uses derivative financial taking account of commercial and enacted at the balance sheet date.
instruments to hedge its exposureto technological obsolescence as well as interest rates and short term currency Exceptional items normal wear and tear, and adjustments are ratefluctuations.
Exceptional items are those items that in made where appropriate.
Under this policy the Directors view are required to be Derivative financial instruments are it becomes impractical to calculate average separately disclosed by virtue of their size recorded initially at cost.
However, the total lives or incidence to enable a full understanding measurement depends on the designation range from approximately 15 to 40 years of the Groups financial performance.
In the of the instrument as either: i a hedge of for land and buildings, and 3 to 15 years for current year all exceptional items relate the fair value of recognised assets or plant and equipment.
All individual assets to environmental costs of businesses liabilities or a firm commitment fair value are reviewed for impairment when there are discontinued in prior years.
Exceptional hedge : or ii a hedge of highly probable indications that the carrying value may not items in the prior year relate to forecast transactions cash flow hedge.
By far the bulk of the reorganisation costs.
Details can be found Groups plant and equipment asset class in note 3 on page 101. relates to the value of plant and equipment at the Groups manufacturing facilities.
Consequently, the Group does not seek to analyse out of this class other items such as motor vehicles and office equipment.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 97 Financial Statements | Group Accounting Policies i Fair value hedge redemption value is recognised in the Cash and cash equivalents Changes in the fair value of derivatives, income statement over the period of the Cash and cash equivalents comprise forexample interest rate swaps and borrowings using the effective interest cashbalances and short term deposits.
foreignexchange contracts, that are method.
Borrowings are classified as Bank overdrafts that are repayable designated and qualify as fair value current liabilities unless theGroup has ondemand and form an integral part hedgesare recorded in the income anunconditional right to defer settlement oftheGroups cash management are statement, together with any changes ofthe liability for at least 12 months after included as a component of cash and inthe fair value of the hedged asset thebalance sheet date.
cashequivalents for the purpose of the orliability that are attributable to the statement of cash flows.
Cash and bank Borrowing costs hedged risk.
overdrafts are offset and the net amount General and specific borrowing costs reported in the balance sheet when ii Cash flow hedge directly attributable to the acquisition, thereisa legally enforceable right to The effective portion of changes construction or production of qualifying offsetthe recognised amounts, there is inthefairvalue of derivatives that are assets, which are assets that necessarily anintention to settle on a net basis and designated and qualify as cash flow take a substantial period of time to get interest is charged on a net basis.
hedges are recognised in equity.
The ready for their intended use or sale, are gainor loss relating to the ineffective added to the cost of those assets, until Environmental, restructuring portion is recognised immediately in the such time as the assets are substantially andother provisions income statement.
Amounts accumulated ready for their intended use or sale.
The Group is exposed to environmental inequityare recycled in the income liabilities relating to its operations and Trade and other payables statement in the periods when the hedged liabilities arising from the restructuring Trade and other payables are recognised item will affect profit or loss for instance ofitsoperations following the acquisition initially at fair value and subsequently when the forecast sale that is hedged ofUniqema.
Provisions are made measured at amortised cost using the takesplace.
However, when the forecast immediately where a legal obligation effective interest method.
transaction that is hedged results in isidentified, can be quantified and it is Inventories therecognition of a non-financial asset regarded as more likely than not that an Inventories are stated at the lower of cost forexample, inventory or a liability, outflow of resources will be required to and net realisable amount on a first in first thegains and losses previously deferred settle the obligation.
Cost comprises all expenditure, inequity are transferred from equity consider the impact of discounting when including related production overheads, andincluded in the initial measurement establishing provisions and provisions are incurred in the normal course of business ofthecost of the asset or liability.
discounted when the impact is material in bringing the inventory to its location and and the timing of cash flows can be When ahedging instrument expires or is condition at the balance sheet date.
Net estimated with reasonable certainty.
sold, orwhen a hedge no longer meets realisable amount is the estimated selling thecriteria for hedge accounting, any Share capital price in the ordinary course of business cumulative gain or loss existing in equity Investment in own shares less any applicable variable selling costs.
atthat time remains in equity and is i Employee share ownership trusts Provision is made for obsolete, slow recognised when the forecast transaction shares acquired by the trustees of the moving and defective inventory where isultimately recognised in the income employee share ownership trust the appropriate.
Profits arising on intra statement.
Trustees, funded by the Company and Groupsales are eliminated in so far as held for the continuing benefit of the When a forecast transaction is no theproduct remains in Group inventory Company are shown as a reduction longerexpected to occur, the cumulative atthe year end.
inequity attributable to owners of the gain orloss that was reported in equity Trade and other receivables parent.
Movements in the year arising isimmediately transferred to the Trade and other receivables are recognised fromadditional purchases by the Trustees incomestatement.
initially at fair value and subsequently ofshares or the receipt of funds due to Certain derivative instruments do not measured at amortised cost, using the theexercise of options by employees are qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes effective interest method, less impairment accounted for within reserves and shown inthe fair value of any derivative losses.
A provision for impairment is asa movement in equity attributable instruments that do not qualify for madewhen there is objective evidence toowners of the parent in the year.
hedgeaccounting are recognised thatthe amount will not be collectible.
Administration expenses of the trusts immediately in the income statement.
Such amounts are written down to arecharged to the Companys income theirestimated recoverable amounts, statement as incurred.
Borrowings withthe charge being made to Borrowings are recognised initially at fair operatingexpenses.
value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Anydifference between the proceeds netof transaction costs and the Croda International Plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements ii Treasury shares where any Group company purchases the Companys equityshare capital as treasury shares, theconsideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs netof income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equityholders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Wheresuch shares are subsequently soldor reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included inequity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Dividends Dividends on Ordinary share capital are recognised as a liability when the liability isirrevocable.
Accordingly, final dividends are recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Investments Investments in quoted securities are treated as available for sale and stated atfair value, being the appropriate quoted market value, with movements in the fairvalue being recognised in equity.
Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot be reliably measured, in which casethe investments are carried at cost.
Investments in associates are initially recorded at cost and subsequently adjusted for the Groups share of results.
Investments are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date or earlier upon indication of impairment.
Heldto maturity investments are measuredat amortised cost using theeffective interest rate method.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99
