99 98 99 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report In relation to the key audit matters, we have added the Opinion on financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc Significant Inventory costing and margin recognition accounting for the leasehold provision due to the material changes in Refer to page 66 Audit Committee Report page 111 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and page 122 In our opinion: nature of this provision and the judgement required in our approach Financial statements disclosures.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the estimating the liability.
We no longer include the net realisable value of inventory as a The value for inventory as at 31 December 2017 is 4,075.7 million 2016: 3,984.0 million and as such is the most significant asset on the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 Key audit key audit matter.
Over recent years the provision has reduced Balance Sheet page 105.
Inventory comprises land and work in progress WIP : WIP is made up of the construction cost of developing a site, and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: matter significantly, both in value and in the number of sites it relates description and is transferred to cost of sales as each legal completion takes place.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in to.
Furthermore, the improvement in the macro-economic accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs The Groups cost allocation framework determines the profit forecasted for each site, and acts as a method of allocating land and build cost of a environment since the financial crisis and the strength of the as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the development to each individual plot, ensuring the forecast margin to be achieved on each individual plot is equal across the development.
This housing market have reduced the risk of this balance being International Accounting Standards Board IASB : cost allocation framework drives the recognition of costs as each plot is sold.
We consider the appropriate margin recognition across the life of materiality misstated.
the site to be a key audit matter.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared There have been no significant changes in our approach in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting to scoping the audit and in determining materiality.
There is significant judgement and a risk of potential fraud in the following areas: Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and estimating the selling price and build costs included within the initial site budget.
This is due to the inherent judgement relating Disclosure Framework: and viability statement to external factors such as future selling prices, the availability of mortgages and build cost inflation: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness appropriately allocating costs such as shared infrastructure costs relating to a development so that the gross profit margin requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group of the going concern basis of accounting contained within Note 1 to the in % terms budgeted on each individual plot is equal: and financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term recording the variation when a deviation from the initial budget occurs and ensuring such variations are appropriately spread across the We have audited the financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc viability of the Group contained within the strategic report, on page 41. remainder of the development.
the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or These judgements impact the carrying value of inventory in the balance sheet and therefore the profit recognised on each plot sold.
draw attention to in relation to: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the disclosures on pages 36-41 that describe the principal risks and How the We visited a number of the Groups business units as described on page 101.
As part of these visits we assessed the design and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: scope of implementation, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls in relation to: the Directors confirmation on pages 41 and 66 that they have carried the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes our audit out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, the preparation, approval and monitoring of site budgets: in Equity: responded including those that would threaten its business model, future the regular review meetings where Management reviews actual costs against detailed site budgets: and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: and to the key performance, solvency or liquidity: audit matter the approval of journal transfers to allocate costs across sites or phases of a sites development.
the related Notes 1 to 32 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about Notes 1 to 15 of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
We have also performed substantive testing as noted below: whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material For a sample of sites we have analysed completions in the period and compared the achieved margin to the initial margin determined when the of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted uncertainties to the Group and the Parent Companys ability original site budget was approved.
Where differences fell outside of an acceptable threshold, we performed corroborative inquiries with by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the Management and obtained evidence supporting the variance.
applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements date of approval of the financial statements: For a further sample of sites tested, we have reviewed the total excesses and savings balance identified for each given site, and through is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including the Directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the recalculation of the expected income statement impact based on the number of legal completions in the year, we have determined that the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why excesses and savings have been appropriately allocated and recognised.
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to Through the use of IT interrogation techniques, we have analysed journal postings being made to the inventory balances to highlight any items Basis for opinion whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able which potentially should have been recorded as an expense.
Additionally, we have tested WIP additions to the inventory balance to determine to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on whether the costs have been appropriately capitalised, by tracing these through to supporting invoices.
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or We have analysed cost per square foot of plots sold at a regional business unit level for the current year and compared this to cost per square those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for foot in previous years, to analyse for any unusual trends which required corroboration from Management.
whether the Directors statements relating to going concern and the the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
prospects of the Company required in accordance with Listing Rule We performed a review of sites where the initial site budget was created a number of years ago, which may indicate the use of an outdated We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in budget.
Given the age of these sites, we challenged Management where savings from the budget had been made or additional costs have not with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial the audit.
statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical respect of these matters.
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm Based on the procedures performed, we concluded that the Groups cost allocation framework appears reasonable for the intended purpose of Key that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard observations recognising appropriate margins on plot completion.
The accounting for cost allocation, both at the inception of a site and on an ongoing basis We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
is in line with this framework.
of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key Audit Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, inventory costing and margin recognition: Matters were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the defined benefit pension scheme accounting: and current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material accounting for the leasehold provision misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the year identified with.
The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements Materiality was 40.0 million which was determined on the basis of 5% of These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial pre-tax profit for the year, excluding exceptional items.
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not Based on our scoping assessment, our Group audit is provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Scoping focused on the UK Housing division excluding joint ventures For each key audit matter we perform procedures to assess the design and which represents the principal segment within the Group and implementation of key controls in mitigating the risk that the associated accounts for 98% of the Groups net operating assets, 98% balances are misstated.
of the Groups revenue and 97% of the Groups pre-tax profit before exceptional income.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
