151 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting B comprising equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 Notice of Annual General Meeting up to a nominal amount of 21,841,845 such amount to be reduced This notice of meeting is important and requires your immediate attention.
If by any allotments or grants made under paragraph A above in you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: to seek your own financial advice immediately from a stockbroker, solicitor, i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may bank manager, accountant, or other independent financial adviser authorised bepracticable to their existing holdings: and under the Financial Services and Markets Act2000.
ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Taylor Wimpey rightsofthose securities or as the Board otherwise plc the Company, please pass this document together with the considersnecessary, accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with person who now holds the shares.
If you have sold or transferred part only of treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or your holding of shares in the Company, please consult the person who practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other arranged the sale or transfer.
matter, such authorities to apply until the end of the Annual General Notice is hereby given of the eighty third Annual General Meeting of the Meeting of the Company in 2019 or, if earlier, until theclose of business Company to be held on 26 April 2018 at 11:00 am at TheBritish Medical on 25 July 2019 but, in each case, so that the Company may make Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP for the offers and enter into agreements during this period which would, or might, following purposes: require shares to be allotted or rights tosubscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority ends: and the Board may allot Ordinary Business shares or grant rights tosubscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
To receive the Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report, Special Resolutions: Strategic Report, Auditors Report and Financial Statements 16.
That if resolution 15 is passed, the Board be given power to allot equity for the year ended 31 December 2017. securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the 2.
To declare due and payable on 18 May 2018 a final dividend of authority given by that resolution and or to sell ordinary shares held by 2.44pence per ordinary share of the Company for the year ended the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 of the 31December 2017 to shareholders on the register at close of business Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment orsale, such on 6 April 2018. power to be limited: 3.
To declare due and payable on 13 July 2018 a special dividend A to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares of10.4pence per ordinary share of the Company to shareholders on the inconnection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity register at close of business on 1 June 2018. securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph B 4.
To re-elect as a Director, Kevin Beeston.
of resolution 15, by way of a rights issue only : 5.
To re-elect as a Director, Pete Redfern.
i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 6.
To re-elect as a Director, Ryan Mangold.
bepracticable to their existing holdings: and 7.
To re-elect as a Director, James Jordan.
ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of 8.
To re-elect as a Director, Kate Barker DBE.
those securities, or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, 9.
To re-elect as a Director, Mike Hussey.
and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any 10.
To re-elect as a Director, Angela Knight CBE.
arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or 11.
To re-elect as a Director, Humphrey Singer.
practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other 12.
To elect as a Director, Gwyn Burr.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid B in the case of the authority granted under paragraph A of resolution before the Company.
15 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares, tothe allotment 14.
Subject to the passing of resolution 13, to authorise the Audit Committee of equity securities or sale of treasury shares otherwise than under to determine the remuneration of the auditor on behalf ofthe Board.
paragraph A above up to a nominal amount of 1,638,138.
That the Board be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares Such power to apply until the end of the next Annual General Meeting of in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any the Company or, if earlier, until the close of business on 25 July 2019 security into shares in the Company: but, in each case, during this period the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to A up to a nominal amount of 10,920,922 such amount to be reduced be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power ends and the by any allotments or grants made under paragraph B below, in Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such excess of 10,920,922 : and offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
co. uk 152 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 17.
That if resolution 15 is passed, the Board be given the power in addition Special Business toany power granted under resolution 16 to allot equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority granted Ordinary Resolutions: under paragraph A of resolution 15 and or to sell ordinary shares held 19.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 of the 2017, as set out on pages 74 to 92 of the Report and Accounts for the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such financial year ended 31 December 2017, be approved in accordance with power to be: section 439 of the Companies Act 2006.
A limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares 20.
That in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act up to a nominal amount of 1,638,138: and 2006, the Company and all companies which are its subsidiaries when B used only for the purposes of financing a transaction which the Board this resolution is passed are authorised to: determines to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind A make political donations to political parties and or independent contemplated bythe Statement of Principles on Disapplying election candidates not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption B make political donations to political organisations other than political Group prior to the date of this Notice or for the purposes of parties not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: and refinancing such a transaction within six months of its taking place.
C incur political expenditure not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate, Such power to apply until the end of the next Annual General Meeting of during the period beginning with the date of passing this resolution the Company or, if earlier, until the close of business on 25 July 2019 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in but, in each case, during this period the Company may make offers, and 2019. enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to For the purposes of this resolution the terms political donations, political be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power ends and the parties, independent election candidates, political organisations and Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such political expenditure have the meanings given by Sections 363 to 365 of offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
That the Company be authorised for the purposes of Section 701 ofthe Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the meaning of Special Resolution: Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of the ordinary shares of 21.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting of the 1pence each of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: Company may continue to be called on not less than 14 clear days A the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised notice.
tobepurchased shall be 327,627,600: Explanatory notes relating to each of the above resolutions are set out B the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid onpages 155 to 157. forordinary shares is 1 pence per ordinary share: C the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid foran Action to be taken ordinary share is the highest of: If you wish to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in person, please i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market bring with you the attendance card accompanying this document.
It will help to quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will help us to register Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days your attendance without delay.
Registration will be available from 9:30 am on immediately preceding the date on which such ordinary share is the day of the Meeting.
For the safety and comfort of those attending the purchased: and Meeting, large bags, cameras, recording equipment and similar items will not be ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the allowed into the building and in the interests of security, by attending the highest independent bid on the trading venues where the Meeting, upon request, you hereby agree to be searched together with any purchase is carried out: bags and other possessions.
TheMeeting will commence at 11:00 am and light refreshments will be available from 9:30 am and also after the conclusion of the D the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the Meeting.
Thereis wheelchair access to the venue for shareholders who require conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2018 itorthose with reduced mobility.
However, where required, attendees and 25 October 2019 unless such authority is renewed prior to are strongly advised to bring their own carers to assist with their general mobility such time: and around the venue.
An induction loop system operates in the meeting room.
E the Company may make contracts to purchase ordinary shares Directions to the venue can be found on the reverse of your attendance card.
under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after theexpiry of such authority, and may purchase ordinary shares inpursuance of any such contracts, as if the authority conferred bythis resolution had not expired.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 153 If you would like to vote on the resolutions but cannot come to the Annual Procedural notes General Meeting, please complete the proxy form sent to you with this notice 1.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting andfor and return it to our registrar as soon as possible.
In order for it to count, the the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes which registrar must receive it by no later than 11:00 am on 24 April 2018.
If you shareholders may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register prefer, you can submit your proxy electronically either via the internet at of Members of the Company by 6:00pm on 24 April 2018 or, in the event www.
com or, if you are a CREST member, through the CREST of any adjournment, on the date which is two days before the time of the system by completing and transmitting aCREST proxy instruction as adjourned meeting.
Shareholders then onthe Register of Members shall described in the procedural notes below.
be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to Recommendation entries on the relevant Register of Members after that deadline shall be Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed at disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at theAnnual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and the Annual General Meeting.
itsshareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
As at 5 March 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the Each Director will be doing so in respect of all of his or her own publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted beneficial shareholding.
of 3,276,276,755 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 5 March 2018 were Inspection of documents 3,276,276,755.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the 3.
If you are a shareholder of the Company at the time and date set out in Companysregistered office, Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, Note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR during normal business hours from the date of your rights to attend and to speak and vote on your behalf at the Meeting.
this Notice of Meeting until the date of the Annual General Meeting andat The Shareholders may appoint more than one proxy in relation tothe Annual British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the 9JP from 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting until it ends: rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company but must attend the copies of the Executive Directors service contracts: Annual General Meeting to represent you.
A proxy form which may be copies of the letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Independent used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies Non Executive Directors: and this notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should a copy of the full Annual Report and Financial Statements of the Company have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact Link Asset for the year ended 31 December 2017, including the Directors Services as soon as possible on 44 0 871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per Remuneration Report referred toin resolution 19.
This document is also minute plus your phone companys access charge : from overseas 44 available on our website at www.
co. uk corporate 0 371 664 0300 callsoutside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Link Asset Services is open between 9.00 By Order of the Board am 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined bythe order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys Register of Members in respect of the joint holdings thefirst-named being the most senior.
To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be James Jordan received by Link Asset Services at PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4ZF, or, if you want to use an envelope the address Group Legal Director and Company Secretary to use is FREEPOST PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, BR3 9ZA or, if you prefer, Taylor Wimpey plc electronically via the internet at www.
com or, if you are a Registered Office: member of CREST, via the service provided by Euroclear UK and Ireland Gate House Limited at the electronic address provided in Note 9, in each case no later Turnpike Road than 11:00 am on 24 April 2018.
Please note that all forms of proxy High Wycombe received after this time will be void.
A form of proxy sentelectronically at any Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR time that is found to contain any virus will not be accepted.
Registered in England and Wales under number 296805 5.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as further described in Notes 8 and 9 below will 8 March 2018 not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
