100 100 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Defined benefit pension scheme accounting Refer to page 66 Audit Committee Report page 111 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and page 126 to 131 Financial statement disclosures.
The total value of the defined benefit pension scheme at the balance sheet date is a net deficit of 63.7 million 2016: 233.0 million.
The Key audit liabilities specifically are valued at 2,239.6 million 2016: 2,368.8 million.
matter description Accounting for a defined benefit pension scheme and the value of liabilities is dependent on significant assumptions, including an assessment of the discount rate, price inflation and key demographic figures including life expectancy and mortality rates.
A change in any of these assumptions could cause a material change in the value of the liabilities overall and the net pension liability on the Groups balance sheet.
These accounting judgements are inherently complex, require a high level of Management judgement and specialist actuarial input.
The Group is obligated to pay contributions into the pension scheme to reduce the size of the total net deficit.
There is judgement in assessing the nature and quantum of certain future contributions that may need to be made and, at the end of the scheme, whether the Group is entitled to any surplus that remains.
These judgements directly impact the size of the future funding contributions and the size of the adjustment to recognise the future liabilities the Group has to the pension scheme as shown in Note 20.
How the We assessed the competence and objectivity of the qualified actuary engaged by the Group to value the schemes defined benefits pension scope of position under IAS 19 Employee benefits.
our audit We engaged our internal actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness of the assumptions used to account for the defined benefit scheme.
responded This included comparison of key data with market benchmarks and to challenge the methodology used by the scheme actuary.
We considered to the key whether each of the key assumptions was reasonable in isolation and collectively in determining the pension liability at the balance sheet date.
audit matter Furthermore, we have performed a sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions determined by the Directors.
We reviewed the pension scheme documentation to determine the size and nature of the future funding contributions and to assess the treatment of any remaining surplus that may arise at the end of the scheme.
We performed procedures to assess the adjustment made in respect of future funding obligations.
In doing so we reviewed the schedule of payments the Group is obligated to provide and checked whether the calculation was arithmetically correct.
Based on the procedures performed, we concluded that the methodology and assumptions used in valuing the pension scheme liabilities are Key observations considered to be within an acceptable range.
We concurred with the treatment and calculation of the future funding contributions of the Group.
Accounting for the leasehold provision Refer to page 66 Audit Committee Report page 111 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and page 115 Financial statements disclosures.
As described in Note 6 at the AGM in April 2017 the Group completed their review in relation to certain historical lease structures.
As a result of Key audit this review the Group provided 130.0 million in the first half of the year-ended 31 December 2017 for future costs in order to alter the terms of matter the current lease.
The provision at 31 December 2017 stands at 127.6 million, the small reduction relating to costs incurred and payments description made in the six month period.
During the year, the Group has completed negotiations with the majority of freeholders and has agreed the framework under which payments can be made to change the current lease structures.
Accounting for these provisions is complex and involves Management making a number of forward-looking estimates.
The key judgements related to this key audit matter lie in estimating the final settlements with the stakeholders impacted by the historical lease structures.
This provision has multiple components that relate to discussions with a number of parties including freeholders and individual customers.
Within the provision are additional costs relating to the implementation of the measures that have been identified.
There are a number of risks associated with this provision: Costs could be provided that the Group is not yet committed to incur, or obligated to pay, thereby inflating the provision.
For costs that are provided there is a risk that these are inaccurately estimated or valued.
In addressing this risk, we have obtained Managements estimation of the total costs.
For each component of the provision we have performed How the procedures to assess, based on current facts and circumstances, whether the estimates made by Management are reasonable.
scope of our audit We have held discussions with legal counsel to ascertain whether Managements model reflects the progress of negotiations that have been responded held with freeholders.
to the key The largest component of this calculation is the payments to be made to freeholders in order to alter the terms of the leases.
In order to verify audit matter these amounts we have reviewed the status of negotiations with freeholders and, where these negotiations have been completed, obtained the agreements and recalculated the specific amounts that have been provided for.
We have performed procedures to assess the completeness of the customers affected through an analysis of applications and verification to the underlying lease agreements.
Based on the procedures performed, we considered the provision calculated by Management to be prudent.
However, our estimate of any Key potential overstatement in the provision is below materiality and, if adjusted would not have increased the post-tax profit of the Group by a observations material amount at 31 December 2017.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
