Financial Statements Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to providereturns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as well as maintaining an optimal capital structure to reduce overallcost of capital.
In order to maintain this optimal structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid, issue new shares, return capital toshareholders or dispose of assets to reduce net debt.
Given the Groups strong balance sheet and sustained trading growth, theGroup announced a new dividend policy in 2011 of paying a dividend of between 40% and 50% of sustainable earnings.
Furtherdetails can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3.
Underlying growth coupled to Return on Invested Capital ROIC is the key perceived driver of shareholder value within the Group.
The Groups ROIC now stands at 19.2% against a post-tax WACC of 4.8%, thus hitting the Groups target of maintaining ROIC at a higher level than the WACC.
In addition, the Group employs two widely used ratios to measure our ability to service our debt.
Both net debt EBITDA and EBITDA interest cover were well ahead of target in 2017.
Further details can be found in the Finance Review on pages 26 to 29.
The Group was in compliance with its covenant requirements throughout the year.
Additional information on progress against Key Performance Indicators can be found on pages 24 and 25.
Provisions Environmental Restructuring Other Total m m m m 12.1 4.5 0.7 17.3 At 1 January 2017 Exchange differences 1.1 0.3 0.1 1.3 Released to the income statement 0.4 0.4 Charged to the income statement 1.7 1.7 Cash paid against provisions and utilised 2.5 2.2 4.7 At 31 December 2017 10.2 2.0 0.4 12.6 Analysis of total provisions 2017 2016 m m Current 5.2 8.1 Non-current 7.4 9.2 12.6 17.3 Provisions are made where a constructive or legal obligation has arisen from a past event, can be quantified and where the timing ofthetransfer of economic benefits relating to the provisions cannot be ascertained with any degree of certainty.
The environmental provision relates to soil and potential groundwater contamination on a number of sites, both currently in use andpreviously occupied, in Europe and the Americas.
In relation to the environmental provision, the Directors consider that the balance will be utilised within ten years.
Provisions for remediation costs are made when there is a present obligation, it is probable that expenditures for remediation work will be required and the cost can be estimated within a reasonable range of possible outcomes.
The costs are based on currently available facts and prior experience.
Environmental liabilities are recorded at the estimated amount at which the liability could be settled at the balance sheet date.
Remediation of environmental damage typically takes a long time to complete due to the substantial amount of planning and regulatory approvals normally required before remediation activities can begin.
In addition, increases in or releases of environmental provisions may be necessary whenever new developments occur or additional information becomes available.
Consequently, environmental provisions can change significantly.
The level of environmental provision is based on managements best estimate of the most likely outcome for each individual exposure.
The Group has also considered the impact of discounting on its provisions and has concluded that, as a consequence of the significant utilisation expected in a relatively short timescale, the impact is not material.
The restructuring provision primarily relates to the reorganisation of Incotec.
Most of this provision is expected to be utilised within one year.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 119
