104 104 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year to 31 December 2017 million Note 2017 2016 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 24 2.2 6.3 24 1.2 5.0 Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives and loans Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Actuarial gain loss on defined benefit pension schemes 20 154.8 69.3 Tax charge credit on items taken directly to other comprehensive income 14 26.5 10.7 Other comprehensive income expense for the year net of tax 129.3 57.3 Profit for the year 555.3 589.3 684.6 532.0 Total comprehensive income for the year Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 684.6 532.0 Non-controlling interests 684.6 532.0 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 104 105 Financial Statements Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year to 31 December 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2017 million Note 2017 2016 million Note 2017 2016 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Non-current assets Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 24 2.2 6.3 11 3.9 3.5 Intangible assets 24 1.2 5.0 Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives and loans Property, plant and equipment 12 22.8 21.0 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Interests in joint ventures 13 50.9 50.3 Actuarial gain loss on defined benefit pension schemes 20 154.8 69.3 Trade and other receivables 16 60.1 87.2 Tax charge credit on items taken directly to other comprehensive income 14 26.5 10.7 Deferred tax assets 14 29.3 57.4 Other comprehensive income expense for the year net of tax 129.3 57.3 167.0 219.4 555.3 589.3 Profit for the year Current assets 684.6 532.0 Total comprehensive income for the year Inventories 15 4,075.7 3,984.0 Trade and other receivables 16 122.2 91.4 Tax receivables 0.7 0.2 Attributable to: Cash and cash equivalents 16 600.5 450.2 Equity holders of the parent 684.6 532.0 Non-controlling interests 4,799.1 4,525.8 684.6 532.0 Total assets 4,966.1 4,745.2 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 18 1,024.5 988.1 Tax payables 58.6 61.6 Provisions 21 87.3 28.0 1,170.4 1,077.7 Net current assets 3,628.7 3,448.1 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 18 430.6 442.5 Bank and other loans 17 88.7 85.5 Retirement benefit obligations 20 64.8 234.1 Provisions 21 74.3 5.1 658.4 767.2 Total liabilities 1,828.8 1,844.9 3,137.3 2,900.3 Net assets Equity Share capital 22 288.5 288.4 Share premium account 23 762.9 762.9 Own shares 25 21.3 12.2 Other reserves 24 44.2 43.2 Retained earnings 24 2,063.0 1,817.3 Equity attributable to parent 3,137.3 2,899.6 Non-controlling interests 0.7 Total equity 3,137.3 2,900.3 The financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc registered number: 296805 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 27 February 2018.
They were signed on its behalf by: P Redfern R Mangold Director Director taylorwimpey.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 106 106 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year to 31 December 2017 For the year to 31 December 2017 Share Share Own Other Retained million capital premium shares reserves earnings Total Balance as at 1 January 2017 288.4 762.9 12.2 43.2 1,817.3 2,899.6 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2.2 2.2 Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives and loans 1.2 1.2 Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 154.8 154.8 Tax charge on items taken directly to other comprehensive income 26.5 26.5 Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax 1.0 128.3 129.3 Profit for the year 555.3 555.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 1.0 683.6 684.6 New share capital subscribed 0.1 0.1 Own shares acquired 13.3 13.3 Utilisation of own shares 4.2 4.2 Cash cost of satisfying share options 0.7 0.7 11.5 11.5 Share-based payment credit Tax credit on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity 1.8 1.8 Dividends approved and paid 450.5 450.5 Equity attributable to parent 288.5 762.9 21.3 44.2 2,063.0 3,137.3 Non-controlling interests Total equity 3,137.3 For the year to 31 December 2016 Share Share Own Other Retained million capital premium shares reserves earnings Total Balance as at 1 January 2016 288.3 762.9 3.2 41.9 1,632.7 2,722.6 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 6.3 6.3 Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives and loans 5.0 5.0 Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes 69.3 69.3 Tax credit on items taken directly to other comprehensive income 10.7 10.7 Other comprehensive income expense for the year net of tax 1.3 58.6 57.3 Profit for the year 589.3 589.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 1.3 530.7 532.0 New share capital subscribed 0.1 0.1 Own shares acquired 10.6 10.6 1.6 1.6 Utilisation of own shares Cash cost of satisfying share options 0.7 0.7 Share-based payment credit 9.8 9.8 0.7 0.7 Tax charge on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity Dividends approved and paid 355.9 355.9 Equity attributable to parent 288.4 762.9 12.2 43.2 1,817.3 2,899.6 Non-controlling interests 0.7 Total equity 2,900.3 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 106 107 Financial Statements Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year to 31 December 2017 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year to 31 December 2017 For the year to 31 December 2017 million Note 2017 2016 Share Share Own Other Retained million capital premium shares reserves earnings Total Net cash from operating activities 26 604.1 537.7 Balance as at 1 January 2017 288.4 762.9 12.2 43.2 1,817.3 2,899.6 Investing activities Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2.2 2.2 Interest received 0.8 0.7 Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives and loans 1.2 1.2 0.7 Dividends received from joint ventures Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 154.8 154.8 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 Tax charge on items taken directly to other comprehensive income 26.5 26.5 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 12 4.2 3.1 Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax 1.0 128.3 129.3 Purchases of software 11 1.5 2.0 Profit for the year 555.3 555.3 Amounts repaid by invested in joint ventures 6.1 22.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 1.0 683.6 684.6 Proceeds from sale of interest in subsidiary 2.7 New share capital subscribed 0.1 0.1 Net cash generated from used in investing activities 4.6 26.1 Own shares acquired 13.3 13.3 Financing activities Utilisation of own shares 4.2 4.2 Repayment of bank loans 100.0 Cash cost of satisfying share options 0.7 0.7 Proceeds from loan notes issued 83.0 11.5 11.5 Share-based payment credit Proceeds from the issue of own shares 0.1 0.1 Tax credit on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity 1.8 1.8 Cash received on exercise of share options 3.5 2.3 Dividends approved and paid 450.5 450.5 13.3 10.6 Purchase of own shares Equity attributable to parent 288.5 762.9 21.3 44.2 2,063.0 3,137.3 Dividends paid 450.5 355.9 Non-controlling interests Net cash used in financing activities 460.2 381.1 Total equity 3,137.3 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 148.5 130.5 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 450.2 323.3 For the year to 31 December 2016 Share Share Own Other Retained 1.8 3.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes million capital premium shares reserves earnings Total Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 26 600.5 450.2 Balance as at 1 January 2016 288.3 762.9 3.2 41.9 1,632.7 2,722.6 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 6.3 6.3 Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives and loans 5.0 5.0 Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes 69.3 69.3 Tax credit on items taken directly to other comprehensive income 10.7 10.7 Other comprehensive income expense for the year net of tax 1.3 58.6 57.3 Profit for the year 589.3 589.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 1.3 530.7 532.0 New share capital subscribed 0.1 0.1 Own shares acquired 10.6 10.6 1.6 1.6 Utilisation of own shares Cash cost of satisfying share options 0.7 0.7 Share-based payment credit 9.8 9.8 0.7 0.7 Tax charge on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity Dividends approved and paid 355.9 355.9 Equity attributable to parent 288.4 762.9 12.2 43.2 1,817.3 2,899.6 Non-controlling interests 0.7 Total equity 2,900.3 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 108 108 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Joint operations arise where the Group has joint control of an operation, 1.
Significant accounting policies but has rights to only its own assets and obligations related to the Basis of preparation operation.
These assets and obligations, and the Groups share of The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going revenues and costs, are included in the Groups results.
concern basis and under the historical cost convention except as otherwise Joint ventures and joint operations are entered into to develop specific stated below.
Each arrangement is site or project specific and once the The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied development or project is complete the arrangement is wound down.
consistently, except as otherwise stated, are set out below.
Segmental reporting Going concern The Group operates in two countries, being the United Kingdom and Spain.
The Group has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities taking into The United Kingdom is split into three geographical operating segments, account the principal risks identified on pages 36 to 41.
Having considered each managed by a Divisional Chairman who sits on the Group these forecasts, the Directors remain of the view that the Groups financing Management Team.
In addition, there is an operating segment covering arrangements and capital structure provide both the necessary facilities and the Corporate functions, Major Developments and Strategic Land.
covenant headroom to enable the Group to conduct its business for at least the next 12 months.
As such the segmental reporting for 2017 is: Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on Housing United Kingdom: a going concern basis.
North Basis of accounting Central and South West The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance London and South East including Central London with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial Corporate statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as endorsed Housing Spain by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
Revenue Basis of consolidation Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue and profit are recognised of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries as follows: made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company: a Private housing development properties and land sales Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant has the power over the investee: risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the purchaser.
is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with Revenue in respect of the sale of residential properties, whether under the the investee: and Governments Help to Buy Scheme or not, is recognised at the fair value has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
of the consideration received or receivable on legal completion.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a b Part exchange subsidiary are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any In certain instances, property may be accepted in part consideration for a excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net sale of a residential property.
The fair value is established by independent assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of surveyors, reduced for costs to sell.
Net proceeds generated from the acquisition below the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired subsequent sale of part exchange properties are recorded as a reduction i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the to cost of sales.
The original sale is recorded in the normal way, with the period of acquisition.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is stated fair value of the exchanged property replacing cash receipts.
at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair value of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, all comprehensive income is attributed c Cash incentives to the owners and the non-controlling interests, which may result in the Cash incentives are considered to be a discount from the purchase non-controlling interest having a debit balance.
price offered to the acquirer and are therefore accounted for as a reduction to revenue.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date d Contracting work and partnership housing contracts of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where the outcome of a long term contract can be estimated reliably, Where a subsidiary is disposed of which constituted a major line of revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion business, it is disclosed as a discontinued operation.
Where necessary, of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring by surveys of work performed to date.
Variations in contract work, claims the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is probable that All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are they will result in revenue and they are capable of being reliably measured.
Where the outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated reliably, Joint ventures contract revenue that is probable will be recovered is recognised to the Undertakings are deemed to be a joint venture when the Group has joint extent of contract costs incurred.
Contract costs are recognised as control of the rights and assets of the undertaking via either voting rights or expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable a formal agreement which includes that unanimous consent is required for that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected strategic, financial and operating decisions.
Joint ventures are consolidated loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
under the equity accounting method.
On transfer of land and or work in progress to joint ventures, the Group recognises only its share of any profits or losses.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 108 109 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Joint operations arise where the Group has joint control of an operation, Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign 1.
Significant accounting policies continued but has rights to only its own assets and obligations related to the entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at Basis of preparation Cost of sales operation.
These assets and obligations, and the Groups share of the closing rate.
The Group uses foreign currency borrowings to hedge its net The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going The Group determines the value of inventory charged to cost of sales based revenues and costs, are included in the Groups results.
investment exposure to certain overseas subsidiaries see page 110 for details concern basis and under the historical cost convention except as otherwise on the total budgeted cost of developing a site.
Once the total expected of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such financial instruments.
Joint ventures and joint operations are entered into to develop specific stated below.
costs of development are established they are allocated to individual plots sites.
Each arrangement is site or project specific and once the Operating leases to achieve a standard build cost per plot.
The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied development or project is complete the arrangement is wound down.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income consistently, except as otherwise stated, are set out below.
To the extent that additional costs or savings are identified as the site statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Segmental reporting progresses, these are recognised over the remaining plots unless they Benefits received and receivable and costs paid and payable as an Going concern The Group operates in two countries, being the United Kingdom and Spain.
are specific to a particular plot, in which case they are recognised in the incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a The Group has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities taking into income statement at the point of sale.
The United Kingdom is split into three geographical operating segments, straight-line basis over the lease term.
account the principal risks identified on pages 36 to 41.
Having considered each managed by a Divisional Chairman who sits on the Group Positive contribution these forecasts, the Directors remain of the view that the Groups financing Intangible assets Management Team.
In addition, there is an operating segment covering arrangements and capital structure provide both the necessary facilities and The positive contribution presented on the face of the income statement Brands the Corporate functions, Major Developments and Strategic Land.
covenant headroom to enable the Group to conduct its business for at least represents the net amount of previous impairments allocated to inventory Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
Acquired brands are the next 12 months.
As such the segmental reporting for 2017 is: on a plot that has subsequently resulted in a gross profit on completion.
Their values are calculated based on the Groups valuation This is due to the combination of selling prices and costs, or product mix Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on Housing United Kingdom: methodology, which is based on valuations of discounted cash flows.
improvements exceeding our market assumptions in the previous net a going concern basis.
Brands are stated at cost, less accumulated amortisation and any North realisable value NRV exercise.
These amounts are stated before the accumulated impairment losses.
Basis of accounting Central and South West allocation of overheads which are excluded from the Groups NRV exercise.
Software development costs The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance London and South East including Central London Exceptional items with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial Costs that are directly associated with the acquisition or production of Corporate Exceptional items are defined as items of income or expenditure which, statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as endorsed identifiable and unique software controlled by the Group, and that generate in the opinion of the Directors, are material or unusual in nature or of such Housing Spain by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are Revenue statement in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years from the time Basis of consolidation Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or Should these items be reversed disclosure of this would also be as of implementation, and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after exceptional items.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements and any accumulated impairment losses.
eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue and profit are recognised of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries Interest receivable as follows: Property, plant and equipment made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Interest income on bank deposits is recognised on an accruals basis.
Company: Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or a Private housing development properties and land sales Also included in interest receivable are interest and interest-related services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant has the power over the investee: payments the Group receives on other receivables.
at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the purchaser.
is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with losses.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Buildings are depreciated over Borrowing costs Revenue in respect of the sale of residential properties, whether under the the investee: and 50 years.
Borrowing costs are recognised on an accruals basis and are payable Governments Help to Buy Scheme or not, is recognised at the fair value has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
Also included in borrowing costs is the of the consideration received or receivable on legal completion.
Plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation.
amortisation of fees associated with the arrangement of the financing.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a b Part exchange Depreciation is charged so as to expense the cost or valuation of assets subsidiary are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, In certain instances, property may be accepted in part consideration for a over their estimated useful lives.
Other assets are depreciated using the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the sale of a residential property.
The fair value is established by independent straight-line method, on the following bases: assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of income statement using the effective interest method and are added to surveyors, reduced for costs to sell.
Net proceeds generated from the acquisition below the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired Plant and equipment 20-25% per annum the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled subsequent sale of part exchange properties are recorded as a reduction i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the in the period in which they arise.
Computer equipment 33% per annum to cost of sales.
Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease Capitalised finance costs are held in other receivables and amortised over at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair value of the assets and the period of the facility.
Subsequently, all comprehensive income is attributed c Cash incentives The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is to the owners and the non-controlling interests, which may result in the determined as the difference between the sale proceeds, less any Cash incentives are considered to be a discount from the purchase Foreign currencies non-controlling interest having a debit balance.
selling expenses, and the carrying amount of the asset.
This difference price offered to the acquirer and are therefore accounted for as a reduction The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented is recognised in the income statement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date its functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional Impairment of tangible and intangible assets d Contracting work and partnership housing contracts of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its Where the outcome of a long term contract can be estimated reliably, Where a subsidiary is disposed of which constituted a major line of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion business, it is disclosed as a discontinued operation.
Where necessary, that are denominated in foreign currencies other than the functional that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring currency are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to by surveys of work performed to date.
determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is probable that Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group they will result in revenue and they are capable of being reliably measured.
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at eliminated on consolidation.
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on Where the outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated reliably, asset belongs.
retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Joint ventures contract revenue that is probable will be recovered is recognised to the Undertakings are deemed to be a joint venture when the Group has joint extent of contract costs incurred.
Contract costs are recognised as On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas control of the rights and assets of the undertaking via either voting rights or expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable operation are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet a formal agreement which includes that unanimous consent is required for that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected date.
Income and expense items are translated at an appropriate average strategic, financial and operating decisions.
Exchange differences arising are recognised within other under the equity accounting method.
On transfer of land and or work in comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
progress to joint ventures, the Group recognises only its share of any profits Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the or losses.
income statement in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 110 110 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Borrowings 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded as the proceeds Impairment of tangible and intangible assets continued are received, net of direct issue costs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and Trade payables value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows Trade payables on normal terms are not interest-bearing and are stated are discounted to their present value, using a pre-tax discount rate that at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms, particularly in reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows the asset to which they relate.
The discount to nominal value is amortised have not been adjusted.
over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivatives to hedge its unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, impairment losses net investment exposure to movements in exchange rates on translation of are allocated first to the intangible assets in the cash-generating unit.
certain individual financial statements denominated in foreign currencies other than Sterling which is the functional currency of the Parent Company.
If the full impairment of intangible assets is not sufficient to reduce the carrying value of the cash-generating unit to its recoverable amount, Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Changes in the tangible fixed assets must then be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective tangible fixed assets exceeds their carrying value, no further impairment is as hedges of net investments in foreign operations are recognised directly required.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion, if any, is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined hedged with the corresponding entry in the consolidated income statement.
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating Gains or losses from re-measuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives the unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as foreign currency component of its carrying amount, are also recognised in income immediately.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not Financial instruments qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups they arise.
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge Trade receivables and other receivables accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging Trade receivables on normal terms excluding derivative financial instruments instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is retained in do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced accumulated other comprehensive income until the forecasted transaction by appropriate allowances for estimated unrecoverable amounts.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net receivables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, are measured cumulative gain or loss recognised in accumulated other comprehensive at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
If a derivative Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate.
financial instrument does not meet the specific criteria of IAS 39 Financial Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
instruments for hedge accounting it is presented as a held for trading asset Mortgage receivables or liability.
Mortgage receivables relate to sales incentives including shared equity Customer deposits loans.
The receivable is recorded at amortised cost.
Customer deposits are recorded as a liability within other payables Shared equity loans are separated into a loan receivable and a non-closely on receipt and released to the income statement as revenue upon related embedded derivative asset for accounting purposes as allowed legal completion.
The loan is measured at amortised Provisions cost and the embedded derivative is measured at fair value through profit Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as or loss with any subsequent impairment charged through profit and loss.
a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required The fair value of the derivative is based on a national house price index.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best Cash and cash equivalents estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less from inception and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
Further disclosures relating to financial assets are set out in Note 19.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Parent Company are recorded as the proceeds are received, net of direct issue costs.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 110 111 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Borrowings 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded as the proceeds Employee benefits Impairment of tangible and intangible assets continued Inventories are received, net of direct issue costs.
The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS 19 The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and Inventories are initially stated at cost or at the fair value at acquisition Trade payables Employee benefits amended 2014.
In respect of defined benefit plans, value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows date when acquired as part of a business combination and then held at the a finance charge is determined on the net defined benefit pension liability.
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest-bearing and are stated are discounted to their present value, using a pre-tax discount rate that lower of this initial amount and net realisable value.
Costs comprise direct The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms, particularly in reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the materials and, where applicable, direct labour and those overheads that in the income statement: service costs are spread systematically over the respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and service period of employees, past service costs are recognised as an the asset to which they relate.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all expense at the earlier of when the plan is amended or curtailment occurs, over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs.
estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its at the same time as which the entity will recognise related restructuring and distribution.
Land is recognised in inventory when the significant risks Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its costs or termination benefits.
Certain liability management costs and and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Group.
If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating The Group uses foreign currency borrowings and derivatives to hedge its financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, impairment losses net investment exposure to movements in exchange rates on translation of Non-refundable land option payments are initially recognised in inventory.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement are allocated first to the intangible assets in the cash-generating unit.
certain individual financial statements denominated in foreign currencies They are reviewed regularly and written off to the income statement when of comprehensive income.
other than Sterling which is the functional currency of the Parent Company.
it is probable that the option will not be exercised.
If the full impairment of intangible assets is not sufficient to reduce the The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the consolidated statement carrying value of the cash-generating unit to its recoverable amount, Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Changes in the Taxation of financial position represents either the net liability deficit position of the tangible fixed assets must then be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective The tax charge represents the sum of the tax currently payable and scheme or, should the scheme be in an IAS 19 accounting surplus, tangible fixed assets exceeds their carrying value, no further impairment is as hedges of net investments in foreign operations are recognised directly deferred tax.
the IFRIC 14 liability equal to the present value of future committed required.
in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion, if any, is cash contributions.
Current tax recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement as they fall due.
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or 2.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined hedged with the corresponding entry in the consolidated income statement.
deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating Gains or losses from re-measuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives the estimation uncertainty taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as foreign currency component of its carrying amount, are also recognised in using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Critical accounting judgements income immediately.
Management have not made any individual critical accounting judgements Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not Financial instruments Deferred tax that are material to the Group, apart from those estimations which are set qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on out below.
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in Key sources of estimation uncertainty provisions of the instrument.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge Key sources of estimation uncertainty are those which present a significant computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet Trade receivables and other receivables accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging risk of potential material misstatement to carrying amounts of assets or liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable Trade receivables on normal terms excluding derivative financial instruments instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is retained in liabilities within the next financial year.
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced accumulated other comprehensive income until the forecasted transaction that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which by appropriate allowances for estimated unrecoverable amounts.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
receivables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, are measured cumulative gain or loss recognised in accumulated other comprehensive The value of the defined benefit plan liabilities is determined by using various at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
If a derivative long term actuarial assumptions, including future rates of inflation, growth, Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate.
arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business financial instrument does not meet the specific criteria of IAS 39 Financial yields, returns on investments and mortality rates.
As actual changes in Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects instruments for hedge accounting it is presented as a held for trading asset inflation, growth, yields and investment returns may differ from those neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
assumed, this is a key source of estimation uncertainty within the financial Mortgage receivables relate to sales incentives including shared equity Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary differences statements.
Changes in these assumptions over time and differences to the Customer deposits loans.
arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except actual outcome will be reflected in the statement of comprehensive income.
Customer deposits are recorded as a liability within other payables where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference Note 20 details the main assumptions in accounting for the Groups defined Shared equity loans are separated into a loan receivable and a non-closely on receipt and released to the income statement as revenue upon and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the benefit pension scheme along with sensitivities of the liabilities to changes in related embedded derivative asset for accounting purposes as allowed legal completion.
The loan is measured at amortised Provisions cost and the embedded derivative is measured at fair value through profit Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis using the tax rates Other sources of estimation uncertainty Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as or loss with any subsequent impairment charged through profit and loss.
and laws that have then been enacted or substantively enacted by the Provision for Leasehold a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required The fair value of the derivative is based on a national house price index.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best The value of this provision has been established using information Cash and cash equivalents The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance available to management at 31 December 2017, together with a range sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
of assumptions including the number of units which have been sold by sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less the original Taylor Wimpey customer and as such are not eligible for the be recovered.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, from inception and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
scheme, and the final deed of variation valuations for those freeholders except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other Cash and cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
with whom the Group has not yet agreed a settlement.
comprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also Further disclosures relating to financial assets are set out in Note 19. dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
Cost allocation Financial liabilities and equity instruments Share-based payments In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise on Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to its developments in a specific period, the Group has to allocate site-wide the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based development costs between units built in the current year and in future instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets payment.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments, of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured and make estimates relating to future sales price margins on those by the Parent Company are recorded as the proceeds are received, net at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a developments and units.
In making these assessments there is a degree of of direct issue costs.
straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups inherent uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess estimate of shares that will eventually vest after adjusting for the and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
effect of non-market vesting conditions.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 112 112 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The standard will require presentational changes to the consolidated 2.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of income statement to show part exchange income and expenses estimation uncertainty continued separately below gross margin rather than on a net basis within cost Adoption of new and revised standards of interpretation of sales.
Part exchange is not a significant element of the Groups operations so as such, this impact will be negligible on gross profit In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments to margin and have no impact on operating profit margin.
IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or Introductory fees are currently deducted from revenue but under the after 1 January 2017.
Their adoption has not had any material impact on new standard will be recognised in cost of sales.
These fees are the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
immaterial to the Group and will not impact operating profit margin.
IAS 7 Statement of Cash flows amendments Disclosure Initiative The above items will have no effect on the Groups cash flows.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 2016 Cycle IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016, and although it is not mandatory to adopt until 1 January 2019, the Group has elected to New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective adopt early, so will apply from 1 January 2018.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not The standard specifies how leases are recognised, presented, measured applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are and disclosed.
not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU: On the consolidated statement of financial position, a right of use asset IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and a corresponding lease liability must be recognised for both IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers operating and finance leases.
In the income statement, the existing IFRS 16 Leases operating lease charge which is currently recognised within operating profit, will be replaced by a depreciation charge in respect of the right of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment amendments classification and use asset, and an interest cost in relation to the lease liability.
measurement of share-based payment transactions The Groups lease commitments will be brought onto the consolidated IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments statement of financial position, as a liability with a corresponding asset in Associates amendments sale or contribution of assets between valued using a Right of Use method.
The value of lease commitments is an investor and its associate or joint venture immaterial in relation to the net assets of the Group.
This will impact the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 2016 Cycle timing of the recognition of lease costs within the income statement The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above although it will not affect the Groups cash flows.
Based on an analysis will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future of lease commitments held by the Group at 31 December 2017, and periods.
Whilst not material the impact of standards being adopted from utilising estimated discount rates, the approximate net impact on profit in 1 January 2018 is noted below: the year is expected to be immaterial to the Group.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in final form incorporating the The composition of the Groups lease commitments will change over impairment, classification and measurement requirements in July 2014 time and the discount rates applied are required to be updated to reflect and is scheduled to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition the prevailing economic environment.
General information IFRS 9 will impact the classification, measurement, impairment and Taylor Wimpey plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under fide-recognition of financial instruments as well as introducing a new the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on hedge accounting model.
The main impact will be the reclassification page 159.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities of the shared equity portfolio, currently recognised as a debtor with a are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45. non-closely related embedded derivative.
These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because that Under IFRS 9 the shared equity portfolio will be treated as Fair Value is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group through Profit and Loss.
On restatement of 31 December 2017 results, operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policy this change will improve the Groups operating profit margin by 10bps, set out on page 109. representing the notional interest previously unwound through finance costs, which under IFRS 9 will be incorporated into the fair value adjustment and so recognised through other income expense.
The impairment requirements of the standard require the Group to consider the expected lifetime losses on all financial assets.
The Group does not have significant financial assets other than the shared equity portfolio and as such the impact of IFRS 9 on other financial assets is immaterial.
The requirements of the new hedge accounting model have been reflected in the Groups hedging strategy, policies and documentation from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued in May 2014 and amended in September 2015.
This standard will be applicable to the Group from 1 January 2018.
The standard sets out requirements for revenue recognition from contracts with customers.
The standard uses a five-step model to apportion revenue to the individual promises, or performance obligations, within a contract.
The timing of revenue recognition and therefore number of units, on some long-term contracts may be brought forward.
The effect of these changes on operating profit margin will be immaterial as the timing of revenue recognition for most of the Groups long-term contracts will not change on adoption of IFRS 15.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113 112 113 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The standard will require presentational changes to the consolidated 2.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of 4.
Revenue income statement to show part exchange income and expenses estimation uncertainty continued An analysis of the Groups continuing revenue is as follows: separately below gross margin rather than on a net basis within cost Adoption of new and revised standards of interpretation million 2017 2016 of sales.
Part exchange is not a significant element of the Groups operations so as such, this impact will be negligible on gross profit In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments to Housing: margin and have no impact on operating profit margin.
IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB Private sales 3,532.2 3,283.9 that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or Introductory fees are currently deducted from revenue but under the Partnership housing 365.6 329.2 after 1 January 2017.
These fees are Other 27.9 15.0 the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Total housing 3,925.7 3,628.1 IAS 7 Statement of Cash flows amendments Disclosure Initiative The above items will have no effect on the Groups cash flows.
Land sales 39.5 48.1 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 2016 Cycle IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016, and although it is not Revenue for the year 3,965.2 3,676.2 mandatory to adopt until 1 January 2019, the Group has elected to New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective adopt early, so will apply from 1 January 2018.
Partnership housing includes 288.8 million 2016: 245.3 million recognised under IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not The standard specifies how leases are recognised, presented, measured Housing revenue includes 239.5 million 2016: 216.4 million generated where the sale has been achieved using part-exchange incentives.
Other applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are and disclosed.
revenue includes income from the sale of commercial properties developed as part of larger residential developments and the sale of leasehold properties.
not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU: On the consolidated statement of financial position, a right of use asset 5.
Operating segments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and a corresponding lease liability must be recognised for both The Group operates in two countries, being the United Kingdom and Spain.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers operating and finance leases.
In the income statement, the existing The United Kingdom is split into three geographical operating segments, each managed by a Divisional Chairman who sits on the Group Management IFRS 16 Leases operating lease charge which is currently recognised within operating Team.
In addition, there is an operating segment covering the Corporate functions, Major Developments and Strategic Land.
profit, will be replaced by a depreciation charge in respect of the right of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment amendments classification and use asset, and an interest cost in relation to the lease liability.
measurement of share-based payment transactions The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 1.
Segment profit represents The Groups lease commitments will be brought onto the consolidated the profit earned by each segment without allocation of central administration costs including directors salaries and interest cost expense.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 Investments statement of financial position, as a liability with a corresponding asset in Associates amendments sale or contribution of assets between Segment information about these businesses is presented below: valued using a Right of Use method.
The value of lease commitments is an investor and its associate or joint venture Central London immaterial in relation to the net assets of the Group.
This will impact the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 2016 Cycle & South & South timing of the recognition of lease costs within the income statement For the year to 31 December 2017 North West East The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above although it will not affect the Groups cash flows.
Based on an analysis million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future of lease commitments held by the Group at 31 December 2017, and Revenue periods.
Whilst not material the impact of standards being adopted from utilising estimated discount rates, the approximate net impact on profit in External sales 1,334.5 1,291.2 1,236.3 9.0 94.2 3,965.2 1 January 2018 is noted below: the year is expected to be immaterial to the Group.
Result IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in final form incorporating the The composition of the Groups lease commitments will change over Profit loss on ordinary activities before joint ventures, finance costs and exceptional items 295.4 318.0 263.1 69.7 26.8 833.6 impairment, classification and measurement requirements in July 2014 time and the discount rates applied are required to be updated to reflect and is scheduled to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition the prevailing economic environment.
Share of results of joint ventures 0.5 8.3 0.2 7.6 and Measurement from 1 January 2018.
Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items and after share 3.
General information IFRS 9 will impact the classification, measurement, impairment and of results of joint ventures 294.9 318.0 271.4 69.9 26.8 841.2 Taylor Wimpey plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under fide-recognition of financial instruments as well as introducing a new Exceptional items Note 6 130.0 130.0 the Companies Act 2006.
The main impact will be the reclassification Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results of joint ventures page 159.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities of the shared equity portfolio, currently recognised as a debtor with a and exceptional items 294.9 318.0 271.4 199.9 26.8 711.2 are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45. non-closely related embedded derivative.
Net finance costs 29.2 These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because that Under IFRS 9 the shared equity portfolio will be treated as Fair Value is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 682.0 through Profit and Loss.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policy this change will improve the Groups operating profit margin by 10bps, Taxation including exceptional tax 126.7 set out on page 109. representing the notional interest previously unwound through finance Profit for the year 555.3 costs, which under IFRS 9 will be incorporated into the fair value adjustment and so recognised through other income expense.
Central London The impairment requirements of the standard require the Group to & South & South consider the expected lifetime losses on all financial assets.
The Group As at 31 December 2017 North West East does not have significant financial assets other than the shared equity million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total portfolio and as such the impact of IFRS 9 on other financial assets Assets and liabilities is immaterial.
1,192.5 1,233.2 1,501.3 212.7 145.0 4,284.7 Segment operating assets The requirements of the new hedge accounting model have been Joint ventures 2.1 3.5 42.3 3.0 50.9 reflected in the Groups hedging strategy, policies and documentation Segment operating liabilities 353.9 486.9 486.9 264.2 89.6 1,681.5 from 1 January 2018.
Group net operating assets 840.7 749.8 1,056.7 48.5 55.4 2,654.1 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued in 57.9 Net current taxation May 2014 and amended in September 2015.
The standard sets out Net deferred taxation 29.3 requirements for revenue recognition from contracts with customers.
Net cash 511.8 The standard uses a five-step model to apportion revenue to the Net assets 3,137.3 individual promises, or performance obligations, within a contract.
The effect of these changes on operating profit margin will be immaterial as the timing of revenue recognition for most of the Groups long-term contracts will not change on adoption of IFRS 15. taylorwimpey.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 114 114 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Operating segments continued Central London & South & South For the year to 31 December 2017 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Other information Property, plant and equipment additions 0.7 0.7 0.9 1.9 4.2 Software development additions 1.5 1.5 Property, plant and equipment depreciation 0.1 0.9 0.4 0.9 2.3 Software amortisation 1.1 1.1 Central London & South & South For the year to 31 December 2016 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Revenue External sales 1,239.4 1,204.5 1,137.0 1.7 93.6 3,676.2 Result Profit loss on ordinary activities before joint ventures, finance costs and exceptional items 279.9 280.7 249.3 67.4 20.6 763.1 Share of results of joint ventures 0.1 1.1 1.2 Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items and after share of results of joint ventures 280.0 280.7 250.4 67.4 20.6 764.3 Exceptional items Note 6 2.2 2.7 0.5 Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results of joint ventures and exceptional items 280.0 282.9 250.4 67.4 17.9 763.8 Net finance costs 30.9 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 732.9 Taxation including exceptional tax 143.6 Profit for the year 589.3 Central London & South & South As at 31 December 2016 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Assets and liabilities 1,155.1 1,241.0 1,451.9 215.4 123.7 4,187.1 Segment operating assets Joint ventures 2.6 3.3 43.2 1.2 50.3 Segment operating liabilities 341.7 514.4 459.9 304.9 76.9 1,697.8 Group net operating assets 816.0 729.9 1,035.2 88.3 46.8 2,539.6 61.4 Net current taxation Net deferred taxation 57.4 Net cash 364.7 Net assets 2,900.3 Central London & South & South For the year to 31 December 2016 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Other information Property, plant and equipment additions 0.9 0.9 1.0 0.3 3.1 Software development additions 2.0 2.0 Property, plant and equipment depreciation 0.3 0.7 0.2 0.9 2.1 Software amortisation 1.2 1.2 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 115 114 115 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before finance costs Central London Profit on ordinary activities before financing costs for continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : & South & South million 2017 2016 For the year to 31 December 2017 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Administration expenses 201.9 189.2 Other information Other expense 8.7 9.5 Property, plant and equipment additions 0.7 0.7 0.9 1.9 4.2 Other income 11.2 21.4 Software development additions 1.5 1.5 Exceptional items 130.0 0.5 Property, plant and equipment depreciation 0.1 0.9 0.4 0.9 2.3 Software amortisation 1.1 1.1 Other income includes profits on the sale of property, plant and equipment and the revaluation of certain shared equity mortgage receivables.
Exceptional items: million 2017 2016 Central London & South & South 0.5 Net addition to inventory impairments Note 15 For the year to 31 December 2016 North West East 130.0 Exceptional item recognised in relation to leasehold million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total 130.0 0.5 Exceptional items Revenue External sales 1,239.4 1,204.5 1,137.0 1.7 93.6 3,676.2 Leasehold provision Result As announced at the AGM on 27 April 2017, we are taking measures which we believe will address our customers concerns regarding historical lease structures in an appropriate and fair manner.
Our review has focused on a specific lease structure which provides that the ground rent doubles every Profit loss on ordinary activities before joint ventures, finance costs and exceptional items 279.9 280.7 249.3 67.4 20.6 763.1 10 years until the 50th year, at which point the rent is capped.
This lease structure was introduced by Taylor Wimpey in good faith in 2007 and was one Share of results of joint ventures 0.1 1.1 1.2 of a variety of lease types used on new developments during that period until late 2011, when we stopped using them on new developments commenced Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, exceptional items and after share after that date.
of results of joint ventures 280.0 280.7 250.4 67.4 20.6 764.3 The doubling clauses are considered to be entirely legal and are clearly set out in the relevant lease documentation.
In addition, when buying their Exceptional items Note 6 2.2 2.7 0.5 Taylor Wimpey property, all customers received independent legal advice as part of the standard conveyancing process.
In line with normal practice Profit loss on ordinary activities before finance costs, after share of results of joint the relevant freehold reversions have been sold to a number of third parties over several years.
ventures and exceptional items 280.0 282.9 250.4 67.4 17.9 763.8 We have made good progress in securing agreements with freeholders covering approximately 90% of the properties affected by the doubling ground Net finance costs 30.9 rent clauses.
These agreements enable our customers with a ten-year doubling ground rent lease to convert to an RPI-based structure, should they elect Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 732.9 to participate in our assistance scheme.
The provision will be utilised as customer applications progress through the scheme.
Taxation including exceptional tax 143.6 The exceptional provision of 130.0 million recognised at June 2017 was calculated using a range of assumptions including the total number of properties still owned by the original purchaser and an average valuation per leasehold unit.
Following negotiations with freeholders, the valuation on the majority of Profit for the year 589.3 units has been determined, but the total number of properties and several other assumptions, could still vary over time.
However, given the information available at 31 December 2017 it is considered that the original provision recognised of 130.0 million remains appropriate.
Central London & South & South We expect the cash outflow to be spread over a number of years: this will be determined by the timing of applications from customers.
As at 31 December 2016 North West East million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total Inventory impairment Assets and liabilities The markets in our core geographies, which are the primary drivers of our business, continue to trade positively.
However, we are alert to the potential risk of a change in customer confidence given the on-going Brexit negotiations.
1,155.1 1,241.0 1,451.9 215.4 123.7 4,187.1 Segment operating assets Joint ventures 2.6 3.3 43.2 1.2 50.3 At 31 December 2017, the Group completed a net realisable value assessment of inventory with these factors in mind.
This review did not result in any net change to the total provision 2016: 8.2 million addition and 7.7 million release but resulted in a reallocation of 2.4 million of historically booked provision Segment operating liabilities 341.7 514.4 459.9 304.9 76.9 1,697.8 between two sites which continue to hold a provision due to poor site location and complex site requirements.
There was no further change to the Group net operating assets 816.0 729.9 1,035.2 88.3 46.8 2,539.6 provision because the majority of the remaining impairment provision is on sites which have suffered from adverse planning decisions, or are impacted 61.4 Net current taxation by other site-specific factors, rather than wider market factors.
Net deferred taxation 57.4 The Group undertakes a detailed review on a site by site basis of the net realisable value of its land and work in progress.
The results from this review are Net cash 364.7 sensitive to the assumptions used.
Therefore, we also consider when the inventory is likely to be realised, and whether there has been a sustained change in market conditions and the wider economic environment existing at the balance sheet date.
Net assets 2,900.3 At the balance sheet date, the Group held land and work in progress in the UK that had been written down to net realisable value of 69.9 million 2016: 119.6 million with associated impairments of 46.9 million 2016: 96.8 million.
As at 31 December 2017, 2% 31 December 2016: 3% of Central London our UK short term owned and controlled land is impaired.
In the year 5% 2016: 5% of the Groups UK completions were from pre-2009 impaired sites.
& South & South For the year to 31 December 2016 North West East There has been continued improvement in the Spanish housing market during the year.
However, this improvement has been on newer sites which million Division Division Division Corporate Spain Total have been acquired in better locations.
Sales rates and prices on sites which have been previously impaired remain low.
In the year, 35 plots 2016: 65 Other information were completed in Spain that had previously been impaired.
At 31 December 2017 Spain had land and work in progress that had been written down to Property, plant and equipment additions 0.9 0.9 1.0 0.3 3.1 net realisable value of 17.7 million 2016: 18.7 million with associated impairments of 46.4 million 2016: 50.2 million.
Software development additions 2.0 2.0 Property, plant and equipment depreciation 0.3 0.7 0.2 0.9 2.1 Software amortisation 1.2 1.2 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 116 116 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6.
Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before finance costs continued Profit on ordinary activities before financing costs for continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : million 2017 2016 Cost of inventories recognised as expense in cost of sales, before write-downs of inventories 2,794.6 2,633.3 Reversal of inventory impairment provisions 7.7 Impairment of inventories 8.2 2.3 2.1 Property, plant and equipment depreciation Net foreign exchange charge credit 0.1 1.6 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3 1.1 1.2 Amortisation of intangible assets Payments under operating leases 6.4 6.6 The remuneration paid to Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditor, is as follows: million 2017 2016 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 0.4 0.4 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Other services Total non-audit fees 0.1 0.1 Total fees 0.5 0.5 Non-audit services in 2017 and 2016 predominantly relate to work undertaken as a result of Deloitte LLPs role as auditor, or work resulting from knowledge and experience gained as part of the role.
Other services relate to advisory services relating to real estate advisory work.
The work was either the subject of a competitive tender or was best performed by the Groups auditor because of its knowledge of the Group.
Staff costs 2017 2016 Number Number Average number employed United Kingdom 4,893 4,585 Spain 102 88 4,995 4,673 million 2017 2016 Remuneration 235.2 190.0 Wages and salaries Redundancy costs 0.2 Social security costs 25.8 26.0 Other pension costs 10.4 10.6 271.4 226.8 The information relating to Director and Senior Management remuneration required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority is contained in Note 30 and pages 74 to 92 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Finance costs and interest receivable million 2017 2016 External interest receivable 0.8 0.7 Finance costs are analysed as follows: million 2017 2016 Interest on overdrafts, bank and other loans 6.0 10.9 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 1.6 6.1 9.3 Unwinding of discount on land creditors and other items 18.0 16.2 Net notional interest on pension liability Note 20 5.9 6.1 30.0 31.6 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 117 116 117 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6.
Net operating expenses and profit on ordinary activities before finance costs continued 9.
Taxation Tax charged credited in the income statement is analysed as follows: Profit on ordinary activities before financing costs for continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : million 2017 2016 million 2017 2016 Current tax: Cost of inventories recognised as expense in cost of sales, before write-downs of inventories 2,794.6 2,633.3 UK corporation tax: Current year 122.6 136.5 Reversal of inventory impairment provisions 7.7 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1.5 2.5 Impairment of inventories 8.2 Foreign tax: Current year 3.3 2.3 2.3 2.1 Property, plant and equipment depreciation 124.4 136.3 Net foreign exchange charge credit 0.1 1.6 Deferred tax: Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3 UK: Current year 2.8 5.7 1.1 1.2 Amortisation of intangible assets Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.4 Payments under operating leases 6.4 6.6 Foreign tax: Current year 0.5 1.2 2.3 7.3 The remuneration paid to Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditor, is as follows: 126.7 143.6 million 2017 2016 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts and consolidated Corporation tax is calculated at 19.25% 2016: 20.00% of the estimated assessable profit for the year in the UK.
Taxation outside the UK is calculated financial statements 0.1 0.1 at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group: The tax charge for the year includes a credit of 25.0 million 2016: nil in respect of the exceptional charge relating to the leasehold review and nil The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 2016: 0.1 million in respect of movements in the exceptional impairment provision.
Total audit fees 0.4 0.4 The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 million 2017 2016 Other services Profit before tax 682.0 732.9 Total non-audit fees 0.1 0.1 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20.00% 131.3 146.6 Total fees 0.5 0.5 1.5 2.1 Net over provision in respect of prior years Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 0.2 0.2 Non-audit services in 2017 and 2016 predominantly relate to work undertaken as a result of Deloitte LLPs role as auditor, or work resulting from knowledge and experience gained as part of the role.
The work was Recognition of deferred tax asset relating to Spanish business 3.9 1.1 either the subject of a competitive tender or was best performed by the Groups auditor because of its knowledge of the Group.
Staff costs Tax charge for the year 126.7 143.6 2017 2016 Number Number 10.
Earnings per share Average number employed 2017 2016 United Kingdom 4,893 4,585 Basic earnings per share 17.0p 18.1p Spain 102 88 Diluted earnings per share 16.9p 17.9p 4,995 4,673 Adjusted basic earnings per share 20.2p 18.1p 20.1p 18.0p Adjusted diluted earnings per share million 2017 2016 Remuneration Weighted average number of shares for basic adjusted earnings per share million 3,264.0 3,259.7 235.2 190.0 Wages and salaries Weighted average number of shares for diluted basic adjusted earnings per share million 3,280.4 3,283.2 Redundancy costs 0.2 Social security costs 25.8 26.0 Adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which exclude the impact of exceptional items and any associated net tax charges, are presented Other pension costs 10.4 10.6 to provide a better measure of the underlying performance of the Group.
A reconciliation of earnings attributable to equity shareholders used for basic and diluted earnings per share to that used for adjusted earnings per share is shown below.
271.4 226.8 million 2017 2016 The information relating to Director and Senior Management remuneration required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share 555.3 589.3 Conduct Authority is contained in Note 30 and pages 74 to 92 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Adjust for exceptional items Note 6 130.0 0.5 8.
Finance costs and interest receivable Adjust for tax on exceptional items Note 6 25.0 0.1 million 2017 2016 Earnings for adjusted basic and adjusted diluted earnings per share 660.3 589.7 External interest receivable 0.8 0.7 Million 2017 2016 Finance costs are analysed as follows: Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 3,264.0 3,259.7 Long term incentive share options 9.2 12.3 million 2017 2016 7.2 11.2 SAYE options Interest on overdrafts, bank and other loans 6.0 10.9 3,280.4 3,283.2 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 1.6 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 6.1 9.3 Unwinding of discount on land creditors and other items 18.0 16.2 Net notional interest on pension liability Note 20 5.9 6.1 30.0 31.6 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 118 118 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Intangible assets Software development million Brands costs Total Cost At 1 January 2016 140.2 8.0 148.2 2.0 2.0 Additions At 31 December 2016 140.2 10.0 150.2 Additions 1.5 1.5 At 31 December 2017 140.2 11.5 151.7 Amortisation impairment At 1 January 2016 140.2 5.3 145.5 Charge for the year 1.2 1.2 At 31 December 2016 140.2 6.5 146.7 1.1 1.1 Charge for the year 140.2 7.6 147.8 At 31 December 2017 Carrying amount 3.9 3.9 31 December 2017 3.5 3.5 31 December 2016 The Group has assessed its brands and their associated values and has concluded that given the majority of the legacy brands are currently not used, it would not be appropriate to reverse any of the previously recognised impairment charges.
The amortisation of software development costs is recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Plant, equipment Freehold land and leasehold million and buildings improvements Total Cost At 1 January 2016 14.8 15.4 30.2 Additions 0.2 2.9 3.1 Disposals 1.1 1.1 15.0 17.2 32.2 At 31 December 2016 Additions 1.4 2.8 4.2 Disposals 1.0 1.0 At 31 December 2017 16.4 19.0 35.4 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2016 0.7 9.5 10.2 Disposals 1.1 1.1 Charge for the year 0.5 1.6 2.1 At 31 December 2016 1.2 10.0 11.2 Disposals 0.9 0.9 Charge for the year 0.5 1.8 2.3 At 31 December 2017 1.7 10.9 12.6 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 14.7 8.1 22.8 At 31 December 2016 13.8 7.2 21.0 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 119 118 119 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Interests in joint ventures Software million 2017 2016 development Aggregated amounts relating to share of joint ventures: million Brands costs Total Non-current assets 6.7 Cost Current assets 79.5 66.5 At 1 January 2016 140.2 8.0 148.2 Total assets 86.2 66.5 2.0 2.0 Additions At 31 December 2016 140.2 10.0 150.2 Current liabilities 16.6 12.3 Additions 1.5 1.5 Non-current liabilities 49.3 44.3 At 31 December 2017 140.2 11.5 151.7 Total liabilities 65.9 56.6 Amortisation impairment 20.3 9.9 Carrying amount At 1 January 2016 140.2 5.3 145.5 Loans to joint ventures 30.6 40.4 Charge for the year 1.2 1.2 Total interests in joint ventures 50.9 50.3 At 31 December 2016 140.2 6.5 146.7 1.1 1.1 Charge for the year million 2017 2016 140.2 7.6 147.8 At 31 December 2017 Group share of: Revenue 90.7 29.1 Carrying amount Cost of sales 79.6 26.5 3.9 3.9 31 December 2017 Gross profit 11.1 2.6 3.5 3.5 31 December 2016 1.0 0.7 Net operating expenses Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs 10.1 1.9 The Group has assessed its brands and their associated values and has concluded that given the majority of the legacy brands are currently not used, it would not be appropriate to reverse any of the previously recognised impairment charges.
Finance costs 0.4 0.4 The amortisation of software development costs is recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 9.7 1.5 Taxation 2.1 0.3 12.
Property, plant and equipment Share of joint ventures post-tax results for the year 7.6 1.2 Plant, equipment The Group has five material 2016: two joint ventures whose principal activity is residential housebuilding or development.
The Group considers a joint Freehold land and leasehold million and buildings improvements Total venture to be material when it is financially important to the Group.
During the year the Group established two new joint venture entities.
Winstanley & York Road Regeneration LLP was set up with Wandsworth Council to undertake a significant regeneration project expected to deliver 2,200 homes.
Cost The second, Whitehill & Bordon Development Company, Phase 1a Ltd, was set up with Dorchester Living Limited to develop part of the Ministry of At 1 January 2016 14.8 15.4 30.2 Defences site in Bordon, Hampshire.
Whitehill & Bordon Regeneration Company Limited was incorporated in 2015 but only became material to the Additions 0.2 2.9 3.1 Group during 2017.
Disposals 1.1 1.1 The particulars of the material joint ventures for 2017 are as follows: 15.0 17.2 32.2 At 31 December 2016 Taylor Wimpey plc interest in the Additions 1.4 2.8 4.2 Country of incorporation Name of joint venture equity accounted in the consolidated accounts issued ordinary share capital Disposals 1.0 1.0 a United Kingdom Greenwich Millennium Village Limited 50% At 31 December 2017 16.4 19.0 35.4 a United Kingdom Chobham Manor Limited Liability Partnership 50% a United Kingdom Winstanley and York Road Regeneration LLP 50% Accumulated depreciation a United Kingdom Whitehill & Bordon Development Company Phase 1a Limited 50% At 1 January 2016 0.7 9.5 10.2 a United Kingdom Whitehill & Bordon Regeneration Company Limited 50% Disposals 1.1 1.1 a Interest held by subsidiary undertakings.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 120 120 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Interests in joint ventures continued The following two tables show summary financial information for the material joint ventures.
Unless specifically indicated, this information represents 100% of the joint venture before intercompany eliminations.
Whitehill & Winstanley Bordon Whitehill & Greenwich and York Development Bordon Millennium Chobham Road Company Regeneration Village Manor Regeneration Phase 1a Company Total million 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 50% 50% 50% 50% 50% Percentage ownership interest Non-current assets 1.0 9.9 10.9 Current assets 37.9 29.8 17.4 14.4 16.8 116.3 Cash and cash equivalents 5.5 14.3 0.7 5.9 1.3 27.7 Current financial liabilities 2.1 13.0 0.7 7.0 7.2 30.0 Current other liabilities 2.2 2.2 Non-current financial liabilities 6.1 34.7 18.0 13.7 20.0 92.5 Net assets liabilities 100% 34.0 3.6 0.6 0.4 0.8 30.2 Group share of net assets liabilities 17.0 1.8 0.3 0.2 0.4 15.1 Loans to joint ventures 16.8 4.7 3.8 2.6 27.9 17.0 15.0 4.4 3.6 3.0 43.0 Total interest in joint ventures Revenue 69.6 94.9 17.0 181.5 Interest expense 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.9 Income tax expense 2.9 2.9 Profit loss for the year 12.4 5.1 0.5 0.5 0.4 16.1 Group share of profit loss for the year 6.2 2.6 0.3 0.2 0.2 8.1 Non-current financial liabilities include amounts owed to JV partners During the year, no entity charged depreciation or amortisation.
No entity had discontinued operations or items of other comprehensive income.
Greenwich Millennium Chobham Village Manor Total million 2016 2016 2016 Percentage ownership interest 50% 50% Current assets 53.9 47.5 101.4 Cash and cash equivalents 1.7 11.0 12.7 Current financial liabilities 3.8 17.2 21.0 Current other liabilities 0.9 0.9 30.2 50.0 80.2 Non-current financial liabilities Net assets liabilities 100% 20.7 8.7 12.0 Group share of net assets liabilities 10.3 4.3 6.0 Loans to joint ventures 12.0 23.2 35.2 Total interest in joint ventures 22.3 18.9 41.2 Revenue 29.3 27.0 56.3 Interest expense 0.6 0.6 Income tax expense 0.5 0.5 4.5 2.5 2.0 Profit loss for the year 2.3 1.3 1.0 Group share of profit loss for the year Non-current financial liabilities include amounts owed to JV partners.
During the year, no entity charged depreciation or amortisation.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 121 120 121 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Interests in joint ventures continued 13.
Unless specifically indicated, this information represents 100% million 2017 2016 of the joint venture before intercompany eliminations.
Aggregated amounts relating to share of individually immaterial joint ventures Non-current assets 1.2 Whitehill & Current assets 7.5 9.4 Winstanley Bordon Whitehill & Total assets 8.7 9.4 Greenwich and York Development Bordon Millennium Chobham Road Company Regeneration Current liabilities 0.5 1.3 Village Manor Regeneration Phase 1a Company Total Non-current liabilities 3.0 4.2 million 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Total liabilities 3.5 5.5 50% 50% 50% 50% 50% Percentage ownership interest Non-current assets 1.0 9.9 10.9 Carrying amount 5.2 3.9 Current assets 37.9 29.8 17.4 14.4 16.8 116.3 2.7 5.2 Loans to individually immaterial joint ventures Cash and cash equivalents 5.5 14.3 0.7 5.9 1.3 27.7 7.9 9.1 Current financial liabilities 2.1 13.0 0.7 7.0 7.2 30.0 Total interests in individually immaterial joint ventures Current other liabilities 2.2 2.2 million 2017 2016 Non-current financial liabilities 6.1 34.7 18.0 13.7 20.0 92.5 Net assets liabilities 100% 34.0 3.6 0.6 0.4 0.8 30.2 Group share of: Revenue 1.0 Group share of net assets liabilities 17.0 1.8 0.3 0.2 0.4 15.1 Loans to joint ventures 16.8 4.7 3.8 2.6 27.9 Cost of sales 0.7 17.0 15.0 4.4 3.6 3.0 43.0 Gross profit 0.3 Total interest in joint ventures Revenue 69.6 94.9 17.0 181.5 Net operating expense 0.1 Interest expense 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.9 Profit on ordinary activities before finance costs 0.2 Finance costs 0.1 Income tax expense 2.9 2.9 Loss profit on ordinary activities before tax 0.1 0.2 Profit loss for the year 12.4 5.1 0.5 0.5 0.4 16.1 Taxation 0.4 Group share of profit loss for the year 6.2 2.6 0.3 0.2 0.2 8.1 Share of individually immaterial joint ventures results for the year 0.5 0.2 Non-current financial liabilities include amounts owed to JV partners During the year, no entity charged depreciation or amortisation.
Deferred tax Greenwich The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting year.
Millennium Chobham Village Manor Total ShareRetirement Other million 2016 2016 2016 based Capital benefit temporary million payments allowances Losses obligations differences Total Percentage ownership interest 50% 50% At 1 January 2016 7.2 4.0 11.4 32.0 1.1 55.7 Current assets 53.9 47.5 101.4 Credit charge to income 0.6 0.6 3.9 2.7 0.7 7.3 Cash and cash equivalents 1.7 11.0 12.7 Credit to other comprehensive income 10.7 10.7 Current financial liabilities 3.8 17.2 21.0 Charge to statement of changes in equity 3.0 3.0 Current other liabilities 0.9 0.9 Foreign exchange 1.3 1.3 30.2 50.0 80.2 Non-current financial liabilities At 31 December 2016 4.8 3.4 8.8 40.0 0.4 57.4 Net assets liabilities 100% 20.7 8.7 12.0 0.2 0.3 0.3 2.8 0.7 2.3 Charge credit to income Group share of net assets liabilities 10.3 4.3 6.0 Charge to other comprehensive income 26.5 26.5 Loans to joint ventures 12.0 23.2 35.2 Credit to statement of changes in equity 0.4 0.4 Total interest in joint ventures 22.3 18.9 41.2 0.3 0.3 Foreign exchange Revenue 29.3 27.0 56.3 5.0 3.1 9.4 10.7 1.1 29.3 At 31 December 2017 Interest expense 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 Income tax expense Closing deferred tax on UK temporary differences has been calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply for the period when the asset is realised 4.5 2.5 2.0 Profit loss for the year or the liability is settled.
Accordingly, the temporary differences have been calculated at rates between 19% and 17% 2016: 20% and 17%.
2.3 1.3 1.0 Group share of profit loss for the year Non-current financial liabilities include amounts owed to JV partners.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 122 122 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Deferred tax continued The net deferred tax balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows: million 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets 30.9 58.7 Deferred tax liabilities 1.6 1.3 29.3 57.4 The Group has not recognised temporary differences relating to tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences amounting to 2.8 million 2016: 3.0 million in the UK and 58.0 million 2016: 70.0 million in Spain.
The UK temporary differences have not been recognised as they are predominantly non-trading in nature and insufficient certainty exists as to their future utilisation.
The temporary differences in Spain have not been recognised due to uncertainty of sufficient taxable profits in the future against which to utilise these amounts.
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused UK capital losses of 269.6 million 2016: 269.5 million.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the capital losses at 31 December 2017 because the Group does not believe that it is probable that these capital losses will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Inventories million 2017 2016 Raw materials and consumables 1.9 1.6 Finished goods and goods for resale 24.0 20.9 Residential developments: a Land 2,682.6 2,650.9 Development and construction costs 1,360.0 1,307.8 7.2 2.8 Commercial, industrial and mixed development properties 4,075.7 3,984.0 a Details of land creditors are in Note 18.
During the year contract costs of 212.2 million 2016: 187.7 million have been recognised within Cost of Sales in respect of IAS 11 construction contracts.
The markets in our core geographies, which are the primary drivers of our business, continue to trade positively.
At 31 December, the Group completed a net realisable value assessment of inventory with these factors in mind.
This review did not result in any net change to the total provision 2016: 8.2 million addition and 7.7 million release but in a reallocation of 2.4 million of historically booked provision between two sites which continue to hold a provision due to the poor site location and complex site requirements.
There was no further change as the majority of the impairment provision remaining is on sites which have suffered from adverse planning decisions or are impacted by other site-specific factors rather than wider market factors.
The table below details the movements on the write-downs on impaired inventory recorded in the year.
Other financial assets Trade and other receivables Current Non-current million 2017 2016 2017 2016 Trade receivables 76.9 65.4 56.4 79.0 Other receivables 45.3 26.0 3.7 8.2 122.2 91.4 60.1 87.2 An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from trade receivables of 1.1 million 2016: 0.4 million.
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience.
Included within trade receivables are mortgage receivables of 63.1 million 2016: 78.0 million including shared equity loans.
Shared equity loans are provided to certain customers to facilitate their house purchase.
They are accounted for as a host contract representing a loan receivable and a non-closely related embedded derivative asset, as allowed under IAS 39 Financial instruments.
The loan is measured at amortised cost and the embedded derivative is measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 123 122 123 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Other financial assets continued The net deferred tax balance is analysed into assets and liabilities as follows: The embedded derivative fair value movement is established by reference to a published national house price index.
The fair value of the derivative is 1.8 million 2016: 2.4 million and is included in the amount above.
million 2017 2016 Included within trade receivables is 1.3 million 2016: 9.6 million of retentions in relation to partnership housing contracts.
Deferred tax assets 30.9 58.7 Deferred tax liabilities 1.6 1.3 Cash and cash equivalents million 2017 2016 29.3 57.4 Cash and cash equivalents see Note 19 600.5 450.2 The Group has not recognised temporary differences relating to tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences amounting to 2.8 million 2016: 3.0 million in the UK and 58.0 million 2016: 70.0 million in Spain.
The UK temporary differences have not been recognised as they are 17.
Bank and other loans predominantly non-trading in nature and insufficient certainty exists as to their future utilisation.
The temporary differences in Spain have not been million 2017 2016 recognised due to uncertainty of sufficient taxable profits in the future against which to utilise these amounts.
Bank loans At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused UK capital losses of 269.6 million 2016: 269.5 million.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised Other loans 88.7 85.5 in respect of the capital losses at 31 December 2017 because the Group does not believe that it is probable that these capital losses will be utilised in the 88.7 85.5 foreseeable future.
Inventories Other loans relate to 100.0 million 2.02% Senior Loan Notes due to expire in 2023. million 2017 2016 million 2017 2016 Raw materials and consumables 1.9 1.6 Amount due for settlement after one year 88.7 85.5 Finished goods and goods for resale 24.0 20.9 Total borrowings 88.7 85.5 Residential developments: a Land 2,682.6 2,650.9 million 2017 2016 Development and construction costs 1,360.0 1,307.8 Analysis of borrowings by currency: 7.2 2.8 Commercial, industrial and mixed development properties Sterling 4,075.7 3,984.0 Euros 88.7 85.5 a Details of land creditors are in Note 18.
88.7 85.5 During the year contract costs of 212.2 million 2016: 187.7 million have been recognised within Cost of Sales in respect of IAS 11 construction 18.
Trade and other payables contracts.
Current Non-current The markets in our core geographies, which are the primary drivers of our business, continue to trade positively.
However, we are alert to the potential risk million 2017 2016 2017 2016 of a change in customer confidence given the on-going Brexit negotiations.
At 31 December, the Group completed a net realisable value assessment of 750.7 481.3 324.6 337.5 Trade payables inventory with these factors in mind.
This review did not result in any net change to the total provision 2016: 8.2 million addition and 7.7 million release Customer deposits 75.8 88.7 10.6 9.8 but in a reallocation of 2.4 million of historically booked provision between two sites which continue to hold a provision due to the poor site location and complex site requirements.
There was no further change as the majority of the impairment provision remaining is on sites which have suffered from adverse Completed site accruals 128.6 120.1 46.3 57.0 planning decisions or are impacted by other site-specific factors rather than wider market factors.
69.4 298.0 49.1 38.2 Other payables The table below details the movements on the write-downs on impaired inventory recorded in the year.
1,024.5 988.1 430.6 442.5 Inventory write-downs million 2017 2016 Other payables includes 48.0 million 2016: 61.4 million of repayable grants.
1 January 147.0 167.7 Land creditors included within trade payables are due as follows: million 2017 2016 52.9 28.3 Utilised Net addition 0.5 Due within one year 319.5 266.3 Due in more than one year 319.6 333.5 Foreign exchange 0.8 7.1 639.1 599.8 31 December 93.3 147.0 Land creditors are denominated as follows: 16.
Other financial assets million 2017 2016 Trade and other receivables Sterling 618.3 577.4 Current Non-current Euros 20.8 22.4 million 2017 2016 2017 2016 639.1 599.8 Trade receivables 76.9 65.4 56.4 79.0 Other receivables 45.3 26.0 3.7 8.2 Land creditors of 489.6 million 2016: 276.2 million are secured against land acquired for development, or supported by bond or guarantee.
122.2 91.4 60.1 87.2 An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from trade receivables of 1.1 million 2016: 0.4 million.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 124 124 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a strong credit rating for the business and to have an appropriate funding structure.
Shareholders equity and long-term debt are used to finance property, plant and equipment and the medium to long term inventories.
Revolving credit facilities are used to fund net current assets including development and construction costs.
The Groups financing facilities contain the usual financial covenants including minimum interest cover and maximum gearing.
The Group met these requirements throughout the year.
Financial assets and financial liabilities Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows: Carrying value Fair value Financial assets Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December million hierarchy 2017 2016 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents b 600.5 450.2 600.5 450.2 b 13.8 24.1 13.8 24.1 Land receivables Trade and other receivables b 67.2 44.6 67.2 44.6 Mortgage receivables a 63.1 78.0 63.1 78.0 744.6 596.9 744.6 596.9 a Mortgage receivables relate to sales incentives including shared equity loans which are separated into a loan receivable and a non-closely related embedded derivative asset.
The embedded derivative is measured at fair value through profit and loss.
The fair value of the derivative is established based on a publicly available national house price index, being significant other observable inputs level 2. b The Directors consider the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised costs in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair value.
No financial assets are past due and as such have not been impaired.
An allowance is made for the mortgage receivables as described in Note 16.
Land receivables and trade and other receivables are included in the balance sheet as trade and other receivables for current and non-current amounts.
Current and non-current trade and other receivables, as disclosed in Note 16, include 38.2 million 2016: 31.9 million of non-financial assets.
Carrying value Fair value Financial liabilities Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December million hierarchy 2017 2016 2017 2016 a 88.7 85.5 87.8 85.5 Overdrafts, bank and other loans Land creditors b 639.1 599.8 639.1 599.8 Trade and other payables b 690.7 677.9 690.7 677.9 1,418.5 1,363.2 1,417.6 1,363.2 a The fair value of the 100 million fixed rate loan notes has been determined by reference to external interest rates and the Directors assessment of the margin for credit risk level 2.
Land creditors are included in the balance sheet as trade and other payables for current and non-current amounts.
Current and non-current trade and other payables, as disclosed in Note 18, include 125.3 million 2016: 152.9 million of non-financial liabilities.
The Group has designated the carrying value of 54.0 million of foreign currency borrowings 2016: 54.0 million foreign currency borrowings as a net investment hedge.
The Group has no other financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs level 3, nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
Forward contracts have been entered into to hedge transaction risks on intra-Group loans to buy sell against Sterling: 65.0 million and C$ nil million 2016: 47.5 million and C$ 0.4 million.
The fair value of the forward contracts is not materially different to their book value as they were entered into on or near 31 December in each year and mature less than one month later, hence the value of the derivative is negligible.
Market risk The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in both foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group aims to manage the exposure to these risks using fixed or variable rate borrowings, foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
a Interest rate risk management The Group can be exposed to interest rate risk as the Group borrows funds, when required, at variable interest rates.
The exposure to variable rate borrowings can fluctuate during the year due to the seasonal nature of cash flows relating to housing sales and the less certain timing of land payments.
Group policy is to manage the volatility risk by a combination of fixed rate borrowings and interest rate swaps such that the sensitivity to potential changes in variable rates is within acceptable levels.
Group policy does not allow the use of derivatives to speculate against changes to future interest rates and they are only used to manage exposure to volatility.
This policy has not changed during the year.
To measure the risk, variable rate borrowings and the expected interest cost for the year are forecast monthly and compared to budget using managements expectations of a reasonably possible change in interest rates.
Interest expense volatility remained within acceptable limits throughout the year.
Interest rate sensitivity The effect on both income and equity, based on exposure to non-derivative floating rate instruments at the balance sheet date, is shown in the table below.
The Group does not currently have any outstanding interest rate derivatives.
The 0.25% change represents a reasonably possible change in interest rates over the next financial period.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 125 124 125 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures 19.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued The table assumes all other variables remain constant in accordance with IFRS 7.
Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a strong credit rating for the business and to have an appropriate funding structure.
Shareholders equity and long-term Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity 0.25% increase in interest rates income equity income equity debt are used to finance property, plant and equipment and the medium to long term inventories.
Revolving credit facilities are used to fund net current million 2017 2017 2016 2016 assets including development and construction costs.
The Groups financing facilities contain the usual financial covenants including minimum interest Derivatives cover and maximum gearing.
Non-derivatives 1.5 1.5 1.1 1.1 Financial assets and financial liabilities 1.5 1.5 1.1 1.1 Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities are as follows: Carrying value Fair value Financial assets Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity Sensitivity million hierarchy 2017 2016 2017 2016 0.25% decrease in interest rates income equity income equity million 2017 2017 2016 2016 Cash and cash equivalents b 600.5 450.2 600.5 450.2 Derivatives b 13.8 24.1 13.8 24.1 Land receivables Non-derivatives 1.5 1.5 1.1 1.1 Trade and other receivables b 67.2 44.6 67.2 44.6 1.5 1.5 1.1 1.1 Mortgage receivables a 63.1 78.0 63.1 78.0 744.6 596.9 744.6 596.9 b Foreign currency risk management The Groups overseas activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Its Spanish subsidiary is the only foreign a Mortgage receivables relate to sales incentives including shared equity loans which are separated into a loan receivable and a non-closely related embedded derivative asset.
The fair value of the derivative is established based on a publicly available national house price index, being significant other observable inputs level 2.
The Group is not materially exposed to transaction risks as all Group companies conduct their business in their respective functional currencies.
b The Directors consider the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised costs in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair value.
Group policy requires that transaction risks are hedged to the functional currency of the subsidiary using foreign currency borrowings or derivatives where appropriate.
The Group is also exposed to the translation risk from accounting for both the income and the net investment held in a functional currency other than Land receivables and trade and other receivables are included in the balance sheet as trade and other receivables for current and non-current amounts.
The net investment risk may be hedged using foreign currency borrowings and derivatives.
Assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies are retranslated each month using the latest exchange rates.
Income is also measured monthly using the latest exchange rates and compared Current and non-current trade and other receivables, as disclosed in Note 16, include 38.2 million 2016: 31.9 million of non-financial assets.
to a budget held at historical exchange rates.
Other than the natural hedge provided by foreign currency borrowings, the translation risk of income is not hedged using derivatives.
The policy is kept under periodic review and has not changed during the year.
Carrying value Fair value Hedge accounting Financial liabilities Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December Hedging activities are evaluated periodically to ensure that they are in line with Group policy.
During 2016 foreign currency borrowings replaced forward million hierarchy 2017 2016 2017 2016 contracts as the designated financial instrument to hedge the net investment risk in the Spanish operations.
a 88.7 85.5 87.8 85.5 Overdrafts, bank and other loans The Group has designated the carrying value of 54.0 million of foreign currency borrowings 2016: 54.0 million borrowings held at the balance sheet Land creditors b 639.1 599.8 639.1 599.8 date as a net investment hedge of part of the Groups investment in Euro denominated assets.
Trade and other payables b 690.7 677.9 690.7 677.9 The change in the carrying amount of the derivatives which were effective hedging instruments, and the change in the carrying value of the borrowings, 1,418.5 1,363.2 1,417.6 1,363.2 offset the exchange movement on the foreign currency net investments and are presented in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income.
a The fair value of the 100 million fixed rate loan notes has been determined by reference to external interest rates and the Directors assessment of the margin for credit risk level 2.
Foreign currency sensitivity The Group is exposed to the Euro due to its Spanish operations.
The following table details how the Groups income and equity would increase decrease Land creditors are included in the balance sheet as trade and other payables for current and non-current amounts.
Current and non-current trade and on a before tax basis following a 15% change in the currencys value against Sterling, and in accordance with IFRS 7, all other variables remaining constant.
other payables, as disclosed in Note 18, include 125.3 million 2016: 152.9 million of non-financial liabilities.
The 15% change represents a reasonably possible change in the specified Euro exchange rates in relation to Sterling.
Income Equity Income Equity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity sensitivity The Group has no other financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs level 3, nor have there million 2017 2017 2016 2016 been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
Euro weakens against Sterling 1.3 4.9 1.0 5.1 Forward contracts have been entered into to hedge transaction risks on intra-Group loans to buy sell against Sterling: 65.0 million and C$ nil million Euro strengthens against Sterling 1.8 6.6 1.3 6.8 2016: 47.5 million and C$ 0.4 million.
Credit risk Market risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss where counterparties are not able to meet their obligations.
The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in both foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group aims to manage Group policy is that surplus cash, when not used to repay borrowings, is placed on deposit with the Groups main relationship banks and with other banks the exposure to these risks using fixed or variable rate borrowings, foreign currency borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
or money market funds based on a minimum credit rating and maximum exposure.
There is no significant concentration of risk to any single counterparty.
a Interest rate risk management Land receivables arise from sales of surplus land on deferred terms.
A policy is in place such that, if the credit risk is not acceptable, then the deferred The Group can be exposed to interest rate risk as the Group borrows funds, when required, at variable interest rates.
The exposure to variable rate payment must have adequate security, either by the use of an appropriate guarantee or a charge over the land.
The fair value of any land held as security borrowings can fluctuate during the year due to the seasonal nature of cash flows relating to housing sales and the less certain timing of land payments.
is considered by management to be sufficient in relation to the carrying amount of the receivable to which it relates.
Group policy is to manage the volatility risk by a combination of fixed rate borrowings and interest rate swaps such that the sensitivity to potential changes Trade and other receivables comprise mainly amounts receivable from various housing associations and other house builders.
Management consider in variable rates is within acceptable levels.
Group policy does not allow the use of derivatives to speculate against changes to future interest rates and they that the credit quality of the various receivables is good in respect of the amounts outstanding and therefore credit risk is considered to be low.
There is are only used to manage exposure to volatility.
no significant concentration of risk.
To measure the risk, variable rate borrowings and the expected interest cost for the year are forecast monthly and compared to budget using Mortgage receivables, including shared equity loans, are in connection with the various historical promotion schemes to support sales on a selective basis.
managements expectations of a reasonably possible change in interest rates.
Interest expense volatility remained within acceptable limits throughout The mortgages are secured by a second charge over the property and are held at amortised cost.
The non-closely related embedded derivative related to the year.
shared equity is held at fair value.
Interest rate sensitivity The carrying amount of financial assets, as detailed above, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date assuming that The effect on both income and equity, based on exposure to non-derivative floating rate instruments at the balance sheet date, is shown in the table below.
any security held has no value.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 126 126 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet its obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, matching the expected cash flow timings of financial assets and liabilities with the use of cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, overdrafts and committed revolving credit facilities with a minimum of 12 months to maturity.
Future borrowing requirements are forecast on a monthly basis and funding headroom is maintained above forecast peak requirements to meet unforeseen events.
The Groups borrowings and facilities have a range of maturities with an average life of 2.6 years 2016: 3.6 years.
In February 2018, the Group agreed with its banks, to amend the terms of its 550 million facility on more favourable terms and to extend the maturity date to February 2023.
The Groups borrowings and facilities now have an average life of 5.2 years.
In addition to fixed term borrowings, the Group has access to committed revolving credit facilities and cash balances.
At the balance sheet date, the total unused committed amount was 550.0 million 2016: 550.0 million and cash and cash equivalents were 600.5 million 2016: 450.2 million.
The maturity profile of the anticipated future cash flows, including interest using the latest applicable relevant rate based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis, is as follows: Overdrafts, Trade and Currency Financial liabilities bank and Land other forward million other loans creditors payables contracts Total On demand Within one year 1.8 326.6 589.1 917.5 More than one year and less than two years 1.8 201.6 61.8 265.2 5.4 107.0 37.7 150.1 More than two years and less than five years In more than five years 89.6 35.7 2.1 127.4 31 December 2017 98.6 670.9 690.7 1,460.2 Excludes land creditors.
Overdrafts, Trade and Currency Financial liabilities bank and Land other forward million other loans creditors payables contracts Total On demand Within one year 1.7 286.4 577.1 0.3 865.5 More than one year and less than two years 1.7 178.7 45.8 226.2 5.2 143.0 43.9 192.1 More than two years and less than five years In more than five years 88.0 21.3 10.8 120.1 31 December 2016 96.6 629.4 677.6 0.3 1,403.9 Excludes land creditors.
Lease commitments are disclosed in Note 28.
Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations comprise a defined benefit pension liability of 63.7 million 2016: 232.7 million and a post-retirement healthcare liability of 1.1 million 2016: 1.4 million.
The Group operates the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS, a defined benefit pension scheme, which is closed to both new members and to future accrual.
The Group also operates defined contribution pension arrangements in the UK, which are available to new and existing UK employees.
Defined contribution pension plan A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays contributions to an independently administered fund such contributions are based upon a fixed percentage of employees pay.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to the fund once the contributions have been paid.
Members benefits are determined by the amount of contributions paid by the Group and the member, together with investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individuals chosen investments and the type of pension the member chooses to buy at retirement.
As a result, actuarial risk that benefits will be lower than expected and investment risk that assets invested in will not perform in line with expectations fall on the employee.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
The Groups defined contribution plan, the Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan TWPCP, is offered to all new and existing monthly paid employees.
The Peoples Pension is used for auto enrolment purposes for weekly and monthly paid employees not participating in the TWPCP.
The Peoples Pension is provided by B&CE, one of the UKs largest providers of financial benefits to construction industry employers and individuals.
The Group made contributions to its defined contribution arrangements of 10.4 million in 2017 2016: 10.6 million, which is included in the income statement charge.
The Group expects to make contributions of around 10.6 million in 2018.
Defined benefit pension schemes The Groups defined benefit pension scheme in the UK is the TWPS.
The TWPS is a funded defined benefit pension scheme which provides benefits to beneficiaries in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on members length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement or date of ceasing active accrual if earlier.
Pension payments are generally increased in line with inflation.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 127 126 127 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Financial instruments and fair value disclosures continued 20.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The Scheme was formed by the merger of the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension and Life Assurance Fund and the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme Liquidity risk in 2013.
The Scheme is closed to new members and future accrual.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet its obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, matching the expected cash flow timings of financial assets and liabilities with The Group operates the TWPS under the UK regulatory framework.
Benefits are paid to members from a Trustee-administered fund and the Trustee is the use of cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, overdrafts and committed revolving credit facilities with a minimum of 12 months to maturity.
Future responsible for ensuring that the Scheme is sufficiently funded to meet current and future benefit payments.
Scheme assets are held in trust.
borrowing requirements are forecast on a monthly basis and funding headroom is maintained above forecast peak requirements to meet unforeseen The TWPS Trustees other duties include managing the investment of scheme assets, administration of scheme benefits and exercising of discretionary events.
In February 2018, the Group powers.
The Group works closely with the Trustee to manage the TWPS.
The Trustee of the TWPS owes fiduciary duties to the TWPS beneficiaries.
agreed with its banks, to amend the terms of its 550 million facility on more favourable terms and to extend the maturity date to February 2023.
The appointment of the Directors to the Trustee Board is determined by the TWPS trust documentation.
During 2017 we engaged with the Pension Trustee on the triennial valuation of the pension scheme with a reference date of 31 December 2016.
The table In addition to fixed term borrowings, the Group has access to committed revolving credit facilities and cash balances.
At the balance sheet date, the below sets out the key assumptions agreed as part of this valuation.
total unused committed amount was 550.0 million 2016: 550.0 million and cash and cash equivalents were 600.5 million 2016: 450.2 million.
The maturity profile of the anticipated future cash flows, including interest using the latest applicable relevant rate based on the earliest date on which Assumptions the Group can be required to pay financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis, is as follows: Discount rate pre-retirement 4.20% Overdrafts, Trade and Currency Discount rate post-retirement 2.35% Financial liabilities bank and Land other forward million other loans creditors payables contracts Total RPI inflation 3.50% On demand CPI inflation 2.70% Within one year 1.8 326.6 589.1 917.5 Mortality 100% of S2PXA tables, CMI 2016 improvements with 1.50% trend rate and a smoothing More than one year and less than two years 1.8 201.6 61.8 265.2 factor of 7.5 5.4 107.0 37.7 150.1 More than two years and less than five years The result of this valuation is a Technical Provisions deficit at 31 December 2016 of 222.0 million.
Strong investment returns on the Schemes assets over In more than five years 89.6 35.7 2.1 127.4 2017 have reduced this deficit to approximately 30.0 million at 31 December 2017.
31 December 2017 98.6 670.9 690.7 1,460.2 A revised funding plan, based on the results of the triennial valuation, has been agreed since the Balance Sheet date.
This plan commits the Group to cash Excludes land creditors.
contributions of 47.1 million per annum for four years, including 5.1 million per annum from the Pension Funding Partnership as described below and Overdrafts, Trade and Currency 2.0 million per annum to cover scheme expenses.
However, 40 million per annum of cash contributions are only required whilst the Scheme remains in Financial liabilities bank and Land other forward a Technical Provisions deficit position.
Should the Scheme become fully funded, then these cash contributions will be suspended until such time that the million other loans creditors payables contracts Total Schemes Technical Provision funding level falls to below 96%.
On demand During 2017, as part of the triennial valuation, each of the assumptions were reviewed, with a focus on demographic assumptions.
In order to review the Within one year 1.7 286.4 577.1 0.3 865.5 mortality base table assumption for the Scheme, three different investigations were carried out.
Firstly, the Scheme Actuary of the TWPS analysed actual More than one year and less than two years 1.7 178.7 45.8 226.2 mortality experience for the Scheme over the period from 2014 to 2016 inclusive.
Secondly the Company commissioned a postcode mortality analysis of the Scheme population from an independent actuary.
Finally, the Company, in collaboration with the Trustee, commissioned a review to assess the current 5.2 143.0 43.9 192.1 More than two years and less than five years health of existing scheme members through questionnaires and telephone interviews.
This approach, referred to as a Medically Underwritten Mortality In more than five years 88.0 21.3 10.8 120.1 Study MUMS, allowed for more detailed investigation of the health profile of the Scheme, and has been adopted for other pension schemes in recent 31 December 2016 96.6 629.4 677.6 0.3 1,403.9 years.
The Company and Trustee wrote to approximately 3,200 members aged between 55 and 80 who together covered 45% of overall scheme liabilities.
Of these members, approximately 60% responded to the survey.
The responses were then analysed by experienced medical underwriters to translate Excludes land creditors.
them into loadings to be applied to standard mortality base tables.
The results of the MUMS investigation, the postcode analysis and the scheme specific Lease commitments are disclosed in Note 28. experience analysis were then blended to form an overall mortality assumption.
This blending applied different weightings to each study for each sub-Group of scheme members, reflecting the perceived relevance of each study to each sub-Group.
Retirement benefit obligations This resulted in an overall loading to be applied to the S2P base tables of 107% for the IAS 19 accounting valuation, and resulted in a reduction in life Retirement benefit obligations comprise a defined benefit pension liability of 63.7 million 2016: 232.7 million and a post-retirement healthcare liability expectancy of around 0.5 years to 1 year relative to the mortality base table assumption adopted in the previous year.
The revised, scheme specific, mortality assumption resulted in a reduction in the deficit before IFRIC 14 adjustment of approximately 60 million which, The Group operates the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS, a defined benefit pension scheme, which is closed to both new members and to combined with asset outperformance has resulted in an IAS 19 accounting surplus of 23.9 million.
The terms of the Scheme are such that the Group future accrual.
does not have an unconditional right to a refund of surplus.
As a result, the Group has recognised an adjustment to this surplus of 87.6 million, resulting in an IFRIC 14 deficit of 63.7 million, which represents the present value of future contributions under the current 2013 funding plan.
Defined contribution pension plan In 2013, the Group introduced a 100.0 million Pension Funding Partnership utilising show homes, as well as seven offices which are owned, in a sale A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays contributions to an independently administered fund such contributions and leaseback structure.
This provides an additional 5.1 million of annual funding for the TWPS.
The assets held within this scheme do not affect the are based upon a fixed percentage of employees pay.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to the fund once IAS 19 figures as they remain assets of the Group, and are not assets of the TWPS.
As at 31 December 2017, there was 101.5 million of property and the contributions have been paid.
Members benefits are determined by the amount of contributions paid by the Group and the member, together with 9.5 million of cash held within the structure 2016: 101.4 million of property and 9.6 million of cash.
The terms of this Funding Partnership are such investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individuals chosen investments and the type of pension the member that, should the Scheme be in a Technical Provisions deficit at 2028, then a bullet payment will be due equal to the lower of 100.0 million or the Technical chooses to buy at retirement.
As a result, actuarial risk that benefits will be lower than expected and investment risk that assets invested in will not Provisions deficit.
The IFRIC 14 deficit at 31 December 2017 does not include any value in respect of this bullet payment as modelling undertaken by an perform in line with expectations fall on the employee.
independent actuary indicates that the Scheme is expected to be fully funded by 2028 and therefore no bullet payment is expected to be required.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent The Group continues to work closely with the Trustee in managing pension risks, including management of interest rate, inflation and longevity risks.
that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
The Scheme assets are approximately 80% hedged against changes in both interest rates and inflation expectations on the Schemes long-term, The Groups defined contribution plan, the Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan TWPCP, is offered to all new and existing monthly paid employees.
The Scheme also benefits from a bulk annuity contract which covers some of the largest liabilities in the Scheme, providing The Peoples Pension is used for auto enrolment purposes for weekly and monthly paid employees not participating in the TWPCP.
The Peoples Pension protection against interest rate, inflation and longevity risk.
is provided by B&CE, one of the UKs largest providers of financial benefits to construction industry employers and individuals.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 128 128 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The table below sets out the details of the funding valuations for the TWPS, carried out in September 2014, with reference to the position at 31 December 2013.
Assumptions TWPS RPI inflation 3.40% Discount rate pre post-retirement 6.05% 4.05% General pay inflation n a Real pension increases 0.00% Valuation results TWPS 1,921m Market value of assets Past service liabilities 2,112m Scheme funding levels 91% Deficit repair contributions per annum 16.0m Period of payment Until November 2018 The defined benefit obligation is measured using the projected unit actuarial cost method.
The duration, or average term to payment for the benefits due, weighted by liability, is approximately 16 years for the TWPS.
Accounting assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the accounting costs and obligations of the TWPS, as detailed below, are set by the Directors after consultation with independent, professionally qualified actuaries.
The basis for these assumptions is prescribed by IAS 19 and they do not reflect the assumptions that may be used in future funding valuations of the TWPS.
The discount rate used to determine the present value of the obligations is set by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds with regard for the duration of the TWPS.
The assumption for RPI inflation is set by reference to the Bank of Englands implied inflation curve with regard for the duration of the TWPS, with appropriate adjustments to reflect distortions due to supply and demand for inflation-linked securities.
CPI inflation is set by reference to RPI inflation as no CPI-linked bonds exist to render implied CPI inflation directly observable.
The life expectancies have been derived using mortality assumptions that were based on the results of a Medically Underwritten Mortality Study conducted by the Group during 2017, combined with experience data.
Using the results from this study the mortality assumption is based on 107% of S2PXA tables, CMI 2016 improvements with a 1.25% trend rate and smoothing factor of 7.5.
The base tables used in 2016 were the S2NXA tables with CMI 2015 improvements and 1.25% trend rate, including actual 2013 to 2015 death data.
TWPS Accounting valuation assumptions 2017 2016 As at 31 December: Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.55% 2.70% General pay inflation n a n a 2.20% 2.25% Deferred pension increases Pension increases 2.10%-3.65% 2.15%-3.70% Pension increases depend on the section of the scheme each member is a part of.
The current life expectancies in years underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the TWPS are: 2017 2016 Life expectancy Male Female Male Female Member currently aged 65 87 88 87 89 Member currently aged 45 88 90 89 91 The pension liability is the difference between the scheme assets and liabilities.
The liability is sensitive to the assumptions used.
The table below shows the impact to the liability of movement in key assumptions, measured using the same method as the defined benefit scheme.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit obligation Impact on defined benefit obligation % Discount rate Decrease by 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 34m 1.5 Increase by 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 20m 0.9 Rate of inflation Life expectancy Members live 1 year longer Increase by 89m 3.8 Assumed to affect deferred revaluation and pensioner increases in payment.
The sensitivity of increasing life expectancy has been reduced by a medically underwritten buy-in.
See the section on additional areas of risk management at the end of this Note.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 129 128 129 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The table below sets out the details of the funding valuations for the TWPS, carried out in September 2014, with reference to the position at The fair value of the assets of the TWPS is set out below: 31 December 2013.
Percentage of total scheme Assumptions TWPS million assets held RPI inflation 3.40% At 31 December 2017 Discount rate pre post-retirement 6.05% 4.05% Assets: General pay inflation n a b Equities 199.8 8.8% Real pension increases 0.00% b Corporate bonds 578.8 25.6% b Fixed-index Government bonds 701.7 31.0% Valuation results TWPS b Index-linked Government bonds 1,236.3 54.6% 1,921m Market value of assets 528.0 23.3% Hedge funds Past service liabilities 2,112m Property 42.2 1.9% Scheme funding levels 91% a Other 1,264.7 55.9 % Deficit repair contributions per annum 16.0m Cash 27.5 1.2% Period of payment Until November 2018 Insurance policies in respect of certain members 213.9 9.5% 2,263.5 100.0% The defined benefit obligation is measured using the projected unit actuarial cost method.
At 31 December 2016 Accounting assumptions Assets: The assumptions used in calculating the accounting costs and obligations of the TWPS, as detailed below, are set by the Directors after consultation with b independent, professionally qualified actuaries.
The basis for these assumptions is prescribed by IAS 19 and they do not reflect the assumptions that may Equities 188.0 8.8% be used in future funding valuations of the TWPS.
b Corporate bonds 583.5 27.3% b The discount rate used to determine the present value of the obligations is set by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds with regard Fixed-index Government bonds 778.3 36.4% for the duration of the TWPS.
The assumption for RPI inflation is set by reference to the Bank of Englands implied inflation curve with regard for the b Index-linked Government bonds 1,108.7 51.9% duration of the TWPS, with appropriate adjustments to reflect distortions due to supply and demand for inflation-linked securities.
CPI inflation is set Hedge funds 289.0 13.5% by reference to RPI inflation as no CPI-linked bonds exist to render implied CPI inflation directly observable.
53.8 2.5% Property The life expectancies have been derived using mortality assumptions that were based on the results of a Medically Underwritten Mortality Study conducted a Other 1,280.0 59.9 % by the Group during 2017, combined with experience data.
The base tables used in 2016 were the S2NXA tables with CMI 2015 Cash 163.1 7.7% improvements and 1.25% trend rate, including actual 2013 to 2015 death data.
Insurance policies in respect of certain members 251.7 11.8% TWPS 2,136.1 100.0% Accounting valuation assumptions 2017 2016 a Consists of repurchase agreements of 1,150.1 million 2016: 1,147.7 million and other financial derivatives swaps, futures and forwards on equities and bonds of As at 31 December: 114.6 million 2016: 132.3 million.
These are used to hedge against movements in scheme assets to reduce the volatility of the scheme deficit.
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.55% 2.70% b Fair values available General pay inflation n a n a The value of the annuities held by the Scheme are set equal to the value of the liabilities which these annuities match.
All other fair values are provided by the fund managers and collated by Northern Trust as custodian, who independently price the securities from their preferred vendor sources where 2.20% 2.25% Deferred pension increases the data is publicly available and rely on investment manager data where this information is not available.
Where available, the fair values are quoted prices Pension increases 2.10%-3.65% 2.15%-3.70% e. g. listed equity.
Unlisted investments e. g. private equity are included at values provided by the fund manager in accordance with relevant guidance.
Pension increases depend on the section of the scheme each member is a part of.
Other significant assets are valued based on observable inputs.
The current life expectancies in years underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the TWPS are: There are no investments in respect of the Groups own securities.
2017 2016 Life expectancy Male Female Male Female Member currently aged 65 87 88 87 89 Member currently aged 45 88 90 89 91 The pension liability is the difference between the scheme assets and liabilities.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 130 130 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The table below details the movements in the TWPS pension liability and assets recorded through the income statement and other comprehensive income.
Fair value Asset liability Present value of scheme recognised on million of obligation assets balance sheet At 1 January 2017 2,368.8 2,136.1 232.7 Current service cost Administration expenses 3.0 3.0 Interest expense income 62.0 56.1 5.9 Total amount recognised in income statement 62.0 53.1 8.9 Return on scheme assets not included in income statement 193.7 193.7 Change in demographic assumptions 78.9 78.9 Change in financial assumptions 44.1 44.1 Experience gains 13.9 13.9 Adjustment to liabilities for IFRIC 14 87.6 87.6 Total remeasurements in other comprehensive income 38.9 193.7 154.8 Employer contributions 23.1 23.1 Employee contributions Benefit payments 142.5 142.5 At 31 December 2017 2,327.2 2,263.5 63.7 Fair value Asset liability Present value of scheme recognised on million of obligation assets balance sheet At 1 January 2016 2,066.2 1,889.1 177.1 Current service cost Administration expenses 3.3 3.3 Interest expense income 74.4 68.3 6.1 74.4 65.0 9.4 Total amount recognised in income statement 271.7 271.7 Return on scheme assets not included in income statement Change in demographic assumptions 71.2 71.2 Change in financial assumptions 431.4 431.4 19.2 19.2 Experience gains 341.0 271.7 69.3 Total remeasurements in other comprehensive income 23.1 23.1 Employer contributions Employee contributions Benefit payments 112.8 112.8 At 31 December 2016 2,368.8 2,136.1 232.7 Accounting valuation million 2017 2016 Fair value of scheme assets 2,263.5 2,136.1 Present value of scheme obligations 2,239.6 2,368.8 IAS 19 surplus deficit before IFRIC 14 adjustment 23.9 232.7 IFRIC 14 adjustment 87.6 IAS 19 deficit after IFRIC 14 adjustment 63.7 232.7 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 131 130 131 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Risks and risk management Fair value Asset liability The TWPS, in common with the majority of such defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, has a number of areas of risk.
These areas of risk, and the Present value of scheme recognised on ways in which the Group has sought to manage them, are set out in the table below.
million of obligation assets balance sheet The risks are considered from both a funding perspective, which drives the cash commitments of the Group, and from an accounting perspective, At 1 January 2017 2,368.8 2,136.1 232.7 i. e. the extent to which such risks affect the amounts recorded in the Groups financial statements.
Current service cost Although investment decisions in the UK are the responsibility of the Trustees, the Group takes an active interest to ensure that the pension scheme Administration expenses 3.0 3.0 risks are managed efficiently.
The Group has regular meetings with the Trustees to discuss investment performance, regulatory changes and proposals Interest expense income 62.0 56.1 5.9 to actively manage the position of the Scheme.
Total amount recognised in income statement 62.0 53.1 8.9 Risk Description Return on scheme assets not included in income statement 193.7 193.7 Asset volatility Building on the implementation of the Schemes Strategic Asset Allocation review in 2016, the Trustee agreed to two new allocations Change in demographic assumptions 78.9 78.9 in 2017.
The first, a new allocation of US$145 million c. 110 million was approved in October 2017 to the KKR Private Credit Change in financial assumptions 44.1 44.1 Opportunities Partners ll fund, an illiquid credit mandate.
The allocation will provide a high return with sufficient liquidity remaining across the rest of the portfolio given that existing illiquid allocations are expected to fall in the near future as the mangers Ares, M&G and Experience gains 13.9 13.9 Highbridge return more capital.
As this fund is a drawdown-type structure, the Scheme will be investing over time, the first capital call Adjustment to liabilities for IFRIC 14 87.6 87.6 occurred in February 2018.
The investment will be funded from excess collateral within the liability-hedging portfolio and the Schemes Total remeasurements in other comprehensive income 38.9 193.7 154.8 remaining holdings in investment grade corporate bonds.
Employer contributions 23.1 23.1 In November 2017, the Trustee agreed to diversify their Diversified Risk Premia DRP allocation between two managers, disinvesting Employee contributions half of the current DRP allocation with AQR, and allocating this to the Bridgewater Optimal fund.
This transition occurred on 1 February 2018 and will lead to greater diversification and reduced manager concentration risk.
Benefit payments 142.5 142.5 At 31 December 2017 2,327.2 2,263.5 63.7 In addition to the investments outlined above, the Schemes strategy is well diversified through its exposure to a range of asset classes, including protected equities, commercial real estate debt, direct loans, hedge funds, government bonds and a broad spectrum of corporate bonds and other fixed income exposures.
Fair value Asset liability Present value of scheme recognised on The Scheme does not target a specific asset allocation but instead bases its strategic asset allocation on the return objectives and risk million of obligation assets balance sheet constraints agreed upon by the Trustees.
At 1 January 2016 2,066.2 1,889.1 177.1 Changes in Falling bond yields tend to increase the funding and accounting liabilities.
However, the investment in bond and liability-matching Current service cost bond yields derivatives offers a degree of matching, i. e. the movement in assets arising from changes in bond yields partially matches the movement Administration expenses 3.3 3.3 in the funding or accounting liabilities.
In this way, the exposure to movements in bond yields is reduced.
Interest expense income 74.4 68.3 6.1 Investing In order to maintain appropriate diversification of investments within the Schemes assets and to take advantage of overseas investment in foreign returns, a proportion of the underlying investment portfolio is invested overseas.
To balance the risk of investing in foreign currencies 74.4 65.0 9.4 Total amount recognised in income statement currency while having an obligation to settle benefits in Sterling, a currency hedging programme, using forward foreign exchange contracts, Return on scheme assets not included in income statement 271.7 271.7 has been put in place to reduce the currency exposure of these overseas investments to the targeted level.
Change in demographic assumptions 71.2 71.2 Asset liability In order to manage the Schemes economic exposure to interest rates and inflation rates, a liability-hedging programme has been put Change in financial assumptions 431.4 431.4 mismatch in place.
Derivatives are being used to hedge changes in the Schemes funding level from changes in its liabilities in an unfunded way, substantially reducing asset liability mismatch risk.
19.2 19.2 Experience gains Illiquidity Insurance policies, real estate and illiquid debt which include commercial real estate debt and direct lending bonds make up 341.0 271.7 69.3 Total remeasurements in other comprehensive income 366 million 16% of the asset portfolio of the Scheme.
Excluding these amounts, approximately 76% of assets are managed either in 23.1 23.1 Employer contributions segregated accounts or daily weekly dealt pooled funds and can therefore be realised within a few business days under normal market Employee contributions conditions.
Of the remaining investments, a further 19% are in pooled funds with monthly redemption dates.
The remainder of 5% could be redeemed within approximately three months of notification in normal market conditions.
Benefit payments 112.8 112.8 Life expectancy The majority of the TWPS obligations are to provide a pension for the life of the member on retirement, so increases in life expectancy At 31 December 2016 2,368.8 2,136.1 232.7 will result in an increase in the TWPS liabilities.
The inflation-linked nature of the majority of benefit payments from the TWPS increases the sensitivity of the liabilities to changes in life expectancy.
During 2014, the Group reached agreement with Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited to insure the benefits of 10% of members with the greatest anticipated liabilities through a medically underwritten Accounting valuation buy-in.
By insuring these members, the Group has removed more than 10% of risk from the scheme by significantly reducing the million 2017 2016 longevity of a large proportion of the liabilities.
Fair value of scheme assets 2,263.5 2,136.1 Present value of scheme obligations 2,239.6 2,368.8 IAS 19 surplus deficit before IFRIC 14 adjustment 23.9 232.7 IFRIC 14 adjustment 87.6 IAS 19 deficit after IFRIC 14 adjustment 63.7 232.7 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 132 132 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Provisions Leasehold provision North America million Note 6 disposal Other Total At 1 January 2016 11.8 22.2 34.0 Additional provision in the year 10.3 10.3 1.3 5.9 7.2 Utilisation of provision Released 4.0 4.0 At 31 December 2016 10.5 22.6 33.1 Additional provision in the year 130.0 11.9 141.9 2.4 0.8 5.7 8.9 Utilisation of provision Released 4.5 4.5 At 31 December 2017 127.6 9.7 24.3 161.6 million 2017 2016 Current 87.3 28.0 Non-current 74.3 5.1 31 December 161.6 33.1 Other provisions consist of a remedial work provision covering various obligations on a limited number of sites across the Group.
Other provisions also includes provisions for legal claims, onerous leases and other contract-related costs associated with various matters arising across the Group, the majority of which are anticipated to be settled within a three year period: however, there is some uncertainty regarding the timing of these outflows due to the nature of the claims and the length of time it can take to reach settlement.
Onerous leases and vacant property costs included in this provision are expected to be utilised within approximately five years.
Share capital million 2017 2016 Authorised: 22,200,819,176 2016: 22,200,819,176 ordinary shares of 1p each 222.0 222.0 1,158,299,201 2016: 1,158,299,201 deferred ordinary shares of 24p each 278.0 278.0 500.0 500.0 Number of shares million Issued and fully paid: 31 December 2016 3,270,272,102 288.4 Ordinary shares issued in the year 5,146,228 0.1 31 December 2017 3,275,418,330 288.5 During the year the Company issued an additional 5.1 million 2016: 11.6 million ordinary shares in order to satisfy option exercises.
During the year, options were exercised over 9,298,098 ordinary shares 2016: 12,813,881 the majority of which were met from new issues of share capital with the balance being met from our holding of shares in our Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs at varying prices from nil pence to 159.12 pence per share.
Under the Groups performance share plan, employees held conditional awards at 31 December 2017 in respect of up to 18,568,767 shares, subject to achievement of performance tests 2016: 17,088,352 at nil pence per share nominally exercisable up to September 2020.
Under the Groups savings-related share option schemes, employees held options at 31 December 2017 to purchase 17,149,237 shares 2016: 19,235,549 at prices between 46.04 pence and 159.12 pence per share exercisable up to May 2023.
Under the Groups share incentive plan, employees held conditional awards at 31 December 2017 in respect of 5,086,637 shares 2016: 5,571,219 at nil pence per share.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 133 132 133 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Share premium account Leasehold million 2017 2016 provision North America At 1 January and 31 December 762.9 762.9 million Note 6 disposal Other Total At 1 January 2016 11.8 22.2 34.0 24.
Reserves Additional provision in the year 10.3 10.3 Capital 1.3 5.9 7.2 Utilisation of provision Retained redemption Translation Total other Released 4.0 4.0 million earnings reserve reserve Other reserves At 31 December 2016 10.5 22.6 33.1 Balance at 1 January 2016 1,632.7 31.5 5.5 4.9 41.9 Additional provision in the year 130.0 11.9 141.9 6.3 6.3 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2.4 0.8 5.7 8.9 Utilisation of provision Movement in fair value of hedging derivatives and loans 5.0 5.0 Released 4.5 4.5 Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes 69.3 At 31 December 2017 127.6 9.7 24.3 161.6 10.7 Deferred tax credit on defined benefit movement Cash cost of satisfying share options 0.7 million 2017 2016 Share-based payment credit 9.8 Current 87.3 28.0 Tax charge on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity 0.7 Dividends approved and paid 355.9 Non-current 74.3 5.1 Profit for the year 589.3 31 December 161.6 33.1 Balance at 31 December 2016 1,817.3 31.5 6.8 4.9 43.2 Other provisions consist of a remedial work provision covering various obligations on a limited number of sites across the Group.
Other provisions also Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2.2 2.2 includes provisions for legal claims, onerous leases and other contract-related costs associated with various matters arising across the Group, the majority Movement in fair value of hedging loans 1.2 1.2 of which are anticipated to be settled within a three year period: however, there is some uncertainty regarding the timing of these outflows due to the nature Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 154.8 of the claims and the length of time it can take to reach settlement.
Deferred tax charge on defined benefit movement 26.5 0.7 Cash cost of satisfying share options 22.
Share capital Share-based payment credit 11.5 million 2017 2016 Tax credit on items taken directly to statement of changes in equity 1.8 Authorised: Dividends approved and paid 450.5 22,200,819,176 2016: 22,200,819,176 ordinary shares of 1p each 222.0 222.0 Profit for the year 555.3 1,158,299,201 2016: 1,158,299,201 deferred ordinary shares of 24p each 278.0 278.0 Balance at 31 December 2017 2,063.0 31.5 7.8 4.9 44.2 500.0 500.0 Other reserves Number of shares million Capital redemption reserve Issued and fully paid: The capital redemption reserve arose on the historical redemption of Parent Company shares, and is not distributable.
31 December 2016 3,270,272,102 288.4 Translation reserve Ordinary shares issued in the year 5,146,228 0.1 The translation reserve consists of exchange differences arising on the translation of overseas operations.
It also includes changes in fair values of hedging 31 December 2017 3,275,418,330 288.5 derivatives where such instruments are designated and effective as hedges of investment in overseas operations.
Other reserve During the year the Company issued an additional 5.1 million 2016: 11.6 million ordinary shares in order to satisfy option exercises.
The Group issued 57.9 million of warrants with a fair value of 5.5 million in 2009 as part of its debt refinancing agreement.
The full cost of the warrants was During the year, options were exercised over 9,298,098 ordinary shares 2016: 12,813,881 the majority of which were met from new issues of recognised in the other reserve on their issuance.
share capital with the balance being met from our holding of shares in our Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs at varying prices from nil pence 25.
Own shares to 159.12 pence per share.
Under the Groups performance share plan, employees held conditional awards at 31 December 2017 in respect of up to 18,568,767 shares, subject to achievement of performance tests 2016: 17,088,352 at nil pence per share nominally exercisable up to September 2020. million Under the Groups savings-related share option schemes, employees held options at 31 December 2017 to purchase 17,149,237 shares Balance at 1 January 2016 3.2 2016: 19,235,549 at prices between 46.04 pence and 159.12 pence per share exercisable up to May 2023.
Under the Groups share incentive plan, Shares acquired 10.6 employees held conditional awards at 31 December 2017 in respect of 5,086,637 shares 2016: 5,571,219 at nil pence per share.
Disposed of on exercise of options 1.6 Balance at 31 December 2016 12.2 Shares acquired 13.3 4.2 Disposed of on exercise of options Balance at 31 December 2017 21.3 taylorwimpey.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
