Strategic Report Chairmans Statement A year of significant progress Overview mix and successful Incotec integration delivered a stronger operating margin I am pleased to report another year in Life Sciences, whilst Performance of significant progress for Croda, strong Technologies increased profit and sales growth and a record profit, good moved towards more technology-driven cash generation and excellent returns markets and applications.
This performance was driven by Our strategy is delivering investment in faster growth markets, We have a clear strategy that is focused new technologies, enhanced Research on providing unique performing ingredients & Development R&D capabilities and satisfying the unmet needs of our a significant capital spend programme.
customers, driving increased value for We continued to focus on delivering the our shareholders.
Alongside sales growth highest standards of health and safety, across all types of customer, large and and in driving sustainability.
small, we delivered a total shareholder Our people contributed significantly return of over 40% in 2017 through share to Crodas success in 2017 with their price growth and an increased dividend.
Another year of significant dedication and creativity.
I had the privilege Our model is to generate strong profit progress for Croda, with of meeting many of them during site visits margins through innovation and focused I made in the last twelve months.
I am strong sales growth and capital investment, which drives a superior impressed by Crodas very special culture, return on capital and generates cash.
where great emphasis is placed on doing We reinvest this cash to develop new the right thing at all times.
On behalf of the Anita Frew technologies, create greater R&D, increase Chairman Board, I would like to take this opportunity our manufacturing capability and develop to thank all our employees for their hard our people.
In 2017, we invested over work and commitment.
30m in acquiring new capabilities in faster growth niches, adding three new exciting Strong sales and a record profit technologies in skin care, novel surfactants Sales for the year increased by 10.4% to and static electricity protective polymers.
1,373.1m 2016: 1,243.6m, with growth We invested nearly 40m in R&D, in all of our sectors.
Adjusted profit before increasing the proportion of sales that tax grew by 11.1% to 320.3m 2016: come from patented and protected 288.3m.
On a statutory basis, profit products, and expanding our Open before tax rose to 314.1m, up 13.9%.
Innovation programme to almost 400 The Board was particularly pleased by partners in universities and technology the performance in Personal Care, where enterprises across Europe and Asia.
We sales are now growing in addition to profit, invested over 150m in new capacity, reflecting a successful improvement notably our first to market bio-surfactant programme implemented under the new plant in North America, which we expect sector management team.
A richer product to commission early in 2018.
Case study Global Employee Culture Survey internally to test the elements of our culture across departments.
Employees that are important to us and that we believe also shared that they have a good Since it was introduced, the Croda Vision set us apart from our peers.
Three sections understanding of the purpose and has become an important part of directly related to our culture: Who we are, goals of the organisation.
describing our company, our people How we work together and How we and the values, behaviours and attitudes A great deal of work is now being manage our work.
These values, undertaken to review the results of the behaviours and attitudes are often referred The survey was translated into 15 survey at every location and business unit.
languages and we were delighted with an overall response rate of 80%.
The To understand if the Croda Vision results of the survey have been pleasing: was experienced across our global 80% employees rated their relationship with organisation, we launched a Global their immediate supervisor positively and response rate to the employee survey Employee Culture Survey, the first for presented a good picture of team work over ten years.
The survey was designed Croda International Plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
