178 178 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Shareholder information Registered Office Share dealing 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT Existing UK shareholders may trade intu properties plc shares Registered in England & Wales no.
3685527 through Link Share Dealing Services who provide a real-time LEI: 213800JSNTERD5CJZO95 online, telephone and postal dealing service.
Contact details are: Websites intugroup.
co. uk Telephone within UK 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm Registrars Monday to Friday All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including Ireland Lo-call 1 890 946 375 notification of change of address, queries regarding loss of outside UK 44 20 3367 2686 a share certificate and dividend payments should be Sharegift addressed to: Shareholders with a small number of shares, which may be For shareholders registered in the UK uneconomic to sell on a commission basis, may wish to consider Link Asset Services donating them to the charity Sharegift registered charity no.
PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Further information can be found on Sharegifts are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by website sharegift.
org or by calling them on 020 7930 3737. provider: lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday Telephone 44 0 371 664 0300 Strate Charity Shares Email: enquiries@linkgroup.
co. uk South African shareholders for whom the cost of selling their signalshares.
com shares would exceed the market value of such shares may wish For shareholders registered in South Africa to consider donating them to charity.
An independent non-profit Terbium Financial Services organisation called Strate Charity Shares has been established 31 Beacon Road, Florida North, 1709 to administer this process.
The South African Revenue Service South Africa SARS has advised Strate Charity Shares that the value of any Postal address: shares donated may be deducted from taxable income, as the PO Box 61272 scheme is registered under section 18A of the Income Tax Act.
Marshalltown 2107, South Africa For further details, queries and or donations contact the Telephone 27 0 860 222 213 Strate Share Care toll free help line on 0800 202 363 or Email: intu@terbium.
global 27 11 373 0038 if you are phoning from outside South Africa or email charityshares@terbium.
global Payment of dividends Electronic communication Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly into a bank or building society account should complete a The Company supplies information such as the annual report mandate form available from the appropriate registrars.
via its website to shareholders who have consented to such communication.
Shareholders will be notified by email or post Share price information when new information is available on the website.
The latest information on the intu properties plc share price is Shareholders can at any time revoke a previous instruction in available on the website intugroup.
order to receive hard copies of shareholder information.
Web-based enquiry service for shareholders UK shareholders may register to receive email alerts by logging Shareholders registered in the UK can go to on to the website of the UK Registrars signalshares.
com to obtain details of their shareholdings following the instructions given to register an email address.
The shareholders surname, Investor Code SA shareholders may register to receive email alerts by written found on any correspondence from registrars and postcode instruction to the South African Registrar, Terbium, by email are required to use this service.
Shareholders may also use intu@terbium.
Once registered, shareholders are sent a this service to amend or change their address and dividend Notice of Availability email highlighting that the annual report mandate details.
or other information is available for viewing on the website.
Shareholders registered in South Africa can go to terbium.
global to obtain details of their shareholdings.
Shareholders will need to follow a registration process in order to access such information.
Unfortunately, due to South African legal requirements, shareholders may not update records, but will be able to view their entire holding of shares globally.
Please note that the Terbium company code for intu properties plc is ITUZ.
This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the belief or current expectations of intu properties plc, its Directors and other members of its senior management about intu properties plcs businesses, financial performance and results of operations.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Rather, they are based on current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside the control of intu properties plc and are difficult to predict, that may cause actual results, performance or developments to differ materially from any future results, performance or developments expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this report.
Except as required by applicable law, intu properties plc makes no representation or warranty in relation to them and expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein to reect any change in intu properties plcs expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Any information contained in this report on the price at which shares or other securities in intu properties plc have been bought or sold in the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Copyright intu properties plc March 2018 Designed and produced by Printed by Pureprint Group on FSC certied paper.
Pureprint Group is an EMAS certied CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certied to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil-based.
This document is printed on Claro Bulk, a paper containing 100% virgin bre sourced from well managed, sustainable, FSC certied forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
intu properties plc 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT intugroup.
