102 102 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for Matters on which we are required to report by exception assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either in our opinion: intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent statements company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the from branches not visited by us: or financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes the accounting records and returns.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from Directors remuneration fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial agreement with the accounting records and returns.
statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters Use of our report Auditor tenure This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our by the shareholders of Taylor Wimpey plc on 27 April 2017 to audit the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors subsequent financial periods.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Following the merger of Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey, we were do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company appointed as auditor of the merged group for subsequent financial periods.
and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Prior to that we were the auditor of Taylor Woodrow.
or for the opinions we have formed.
As explained on page 65, our final year of association with the Group will be Report on other legal and regulatory requirements the year ending 31 December 2020.
After this year-end we are required to mandatorily rotate from our role as auditor.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in Edward Hanson Senior statutory auditor accordance with applicable legal requirements.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor, In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the London, United Kingdom Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, 27 February 2018 we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
