Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 67 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Herald Investment Trust plc will be held at 1011 Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6EE on 19 April 2018 at 11.30 am for the following purposes: To consider and, if thought fit, approve resolutions 1 to 9 as ordinary resolutions and resolution 10 as a special resolution.
To receive and adopt the directors report, the strategic report and the financial statements and the auditors report in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
To re-elect Julian Cazalet as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Tom Black as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Karl Sternberg as a director of the Company.
To re-elect James Will as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as independent auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at which financial statements are laid before the Company.
To authorise the audit committee to determine the remuneration of the independent auditor.
To increase the aggregate amount of all fees paid to the directors excluding amounts payable for executive or extra or special services set out in article 95 of the Companys articles of association from 125,000 to 200,000 per annum with immediate effect.
That, the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of its issued shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company in substitution for any existing authority under section 701 of the Act but without prejudice to any exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof.
PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital on the date on which this resolution is passed: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25p: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall not be more than the higher of a 5% above the average mid closing price as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and b the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: iv any purchase of shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share as determined by the directors : v unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019: and vi the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
By order of the Board Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited Secretary Registered Office: 1011 Charterhouse Square London EC1M 6EE 20 February 2018 Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 68 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED NOTES 1.
As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You can only appoint a proxy using the procedure set out in these notes.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
Shareholders are asked to use the online proxy voting service offered by Link Asset Services at www.
com to vote or appoint a proxy online.
Votes must be received no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
To vote online, the unique personal identification Investor code printed on your share certificate will be required.
Shareholders who are unwilling or unable to vote digitally can opt-in to receive a paper proxy card by telephoning the shareholder helpline on 0871 664 0300.
To be valid any hard copy proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at the Registrars of the Company at Link Asset Services, PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU no later than 48 hours excluding nonworking days before the time of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and or by logging on to the website www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar ID RA10 no later than 48 hours excluding nonworking days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The submission of a completed proxy form or other instrument of proxy will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in person if you wish.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and Section 311 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company specifies that to be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days prior to the commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in Notes 1 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those Notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, on its website, without payment a statement which is also passed to the auditors setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing and must state your full name and address and be sent to the Company at 1011 Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6EE.
Information regarding the AGM, including information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from the Companys page of the managers website at www.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in accordance with Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
As at 19 February 2018 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 70,307,785 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 19 February 2018 were 70,307,785 votes.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of the meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and his proxy complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
No director has a contract of service with the Company.
The Companys articles of association contain a maximum limit on the aggregate level of fees that can be paid to the non-executive directors per annum, currently 125,000 as approved by shareholders in 2013.
The total spend on fees in 2018 assuming four directors will be 102,000.
Should the nomination committee recommend that one or more additional non-executive directors should be appointed, then the article limit might be breached.
Accordingly, the board recommends that the limit on fees in the articles of association be increased from 125,000 to 200,000 per annum.
This is within best practice guidelines i. e. that article limits should be increased by a factor no greater than two times current levels.
The proposed increase does not amend the remuneration policy as approved by shareholders in 2017.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 69 FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION HOW TO INVEST KEY INFORMATION DOCUMENT KID The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock From 1 January 2018 we are required to make a KID available Exchange.
They can be bought by placing an order with a to retail investors in the Company.
The KID provides key stockbroker or an online share dealing platform or by asking information about the Companys shares as an investment a professional adviser to do so.
The information is required by law to help potential shareholders understand the nature, risks, costs, potential SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION ON THECOMPANY gains and losses of the Companys shares and to help them The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times, compare it with other products.
The KID can be viewed at The Daily Telegraph and The Times.
The NAV per share is https: www.
com  and released daily to the London Stock Exchange  and monthly to the Association of Investment Companies.
The Company is an investment trust.
Investment trusts offer KEY DATES investors the following: If a dividend is declared in respect of a financial year, it is Participation in a diversified portfolio of shares.
normally paid late April early May.
The AGM is normally held Constant supervision by experienced professional in April.
The Company is free from capital gains tax on capital TAXATION profits realised within the portfolio.
The price of the ordinary shares adjusted for the price of attributable warrants on 21 February 1994, which was the The opportunity to achieve improved performance for first day of trading, was 90.9p.
The amount attributable to shareholders funds in rising markets by the borrowing of the warrants for the purpose of capital gains tax is 9.1p per additional money.
Any shareholder uncertain of his or her position is recommended to seek expert advice.
ISAS The ordinary shares of the Company are qualifying investments for individual saving accounts.
ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING If you hold stock in your own name you should vote by returning proxies electronically at www.
Ifyou have any questions about this service please contactLink Asset Services on 0871 664 0300 overseas 44 0 371 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge: or applicable international rate: lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30pm Monday-Friday.
Shareholders who wish to do so can obtain a hard copy proxy form by calling the above number or writing to the registrar at: Link Asset Services, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU.
MAINSTREAM INVESTMENT The Company conducts its affairs so that its ordinary shares are capable of being recommended by independent financial advisors to ordinary retail investors in accordance with relevant FCA rules.
Our ordinary shares are, we consider, mainstream investment products because they areshares in an investment trust.
The Company intends to continue conducting its affairs for the foreseeable future sothat the ordinary shares can continue to be categorised asmainstream.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED SECRETARY BANKERS Law Debenture The Bank of New York Corporate Services Limited Mellon One Piccadilly Gardens REGISTERED OFFICE Manchester 1011 Charterhouse Square M1 1RN London EC1M 6EE REGISTRARS Link Asset Services ADMINISTRATOR The Registry The Bank of New York 34 Beckenham Road Mellon Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU COMPANY NUMBER Tel: 0871 664 0300 02879728 overseas 44 0 371 664 0300 England and Wales calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGER AND access charge: or applicable international rate: lines are PORTFOLIO MANAGER open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm MondayFriday Herald Investment Management Limited 1011 Charterhouse Square Website: www.
com London EC1M 6EE E-mail: enquiries@linkgroup.
com BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited E-mail: info@heralduk.
com 160 Queen Victoria Street London ADVISERS EC4V 7LA INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP 25 Churchill Place Canary Wharf London E14 5EY SOLICITORS Macfarlanes 20 Cursitor Street London EC4A 1LT STOCKBROKERS N 1 Singer One Bartholomew Lane London EC2N 2AX Peel Hunt LLP Moor House 120 London Wall London EC2Y 5ET Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 71 NOTES Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES Herald Investment Trust plc 1011 Charterhouse Square London EC1M 6EE 020 7553 6300 www.
