101 100 101 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and Defined benefit pension scheme accounting Our application of materiality carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were Refer to page 66 Audit Committee Report page 111 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and page 126 to 131 We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial Financial statement disclosures.
statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
The total value of the defined benefit pension scheme at the balance sheet date is a net deficit of 63.7 million 2016: 233.0 million.
The Key audit specified account balances.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and liabilities specifically are valued at 2,239.6 million 2016: 2,368.8 million.
matter in evaluating the results of our work.
The audit is performed centrally and includes all of the 24 regional business description Accounting for a defined benefit pension scheme and the value of liabilities is dependent on significant assumptions, including an assessment of units within the Groups UK housing division.
We choose to visit a sample Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the discount rate, price inflation and key demographic figures including life expectancy and mortality rates.
A change in any of these of these business units selected on a rotational basis and with reference to the financial statements as a whole as follows: assumptions could cause a material change in the value of the liabilities overall and the net pension liability on the Groups balance sheet.
size and complexity among other factors.
The purpose of these visits is to Group materiality 40.0 million 2016: 36.0 million conduct procedures over selected controls that are in place at each These accounting judgements are inherently complex, require a high level of Management judgement and specialist actuarial input.
business unit and also to perform substantive testing of certain balances.
Basis for 5% 2016: 5% of pre-tax profit for the year, The Group is obligated to pay contributions into the pension scheme to reduce the size of the total net deficit.
There is judgement in assessing In the current year we performed regional visits to four 2016: four determining excluding exceptional items, of 812.0 million the nature and quantum of certain future contributions that may need to be made and, at the end of the scheme, whether the Group is entitled locations.
In addition we also visit other business units throughout the entity materiality 2016: 733.4 million as described on page 103. to any surplus that remains.
These judgements directly impact the size of the future funding contributions and the size of the adjustment to which are chosen on a random basis.
During these visits we assess the The increase in materiality is directly attributable to recognise the future liabilities the Group has to the pension scheme as shown in Note 20. commonality of the controls in line with the Group-wide controls identified, the increase in pre-tax profit for the Group.
as well as performing substantive testing.
This was performed at four How the We assessed the competence and objectivity of the qualified actuary engaged by the Group to value the schemes defined benefits pension Rationale for Pre-tax profit, excluding exceptional items, has 2016: five locations.
scope of position under IAS 19 Employee benefits.
the benchmark been chosen for the basis for materiality as this is our audit The Parent Company is located in the UK and audited directly by the applied the measure by which stakeholders and the We engaged our internal actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness of the assumptions used to account for the defined benefit scheme.
market assess the wider performance of the entity.
This included comparison of key data with market benchmarks and to challenge the methodology used by the scheme actuary.
We considered to the key The exceptional items are excluded as they do not whether each of the key assumptions was reasonable in isolation and collectively in determining the pension liability at the balance sheet date.
audit matter Other information represent part of the underlying trading Furthermore, we have performed a sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions determined by the Directors.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other performance of the business.
We reviewed the pension scheme documentation to determine the size and nature of the future funding contributions and to assess the information comprises the information included in the annual report other Parent Company 38.0 million 2016: 34.2 million treatment of any remaining surplus that may arise at the end of the scheme.
We performed procedures to assess the adjustment made in than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
materiality respect of future funding obligations.
In doing so we reviewed the schedule of payments the Group is obligated to provide and checked Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other whether the calculation was arithmetically correct.
Approximately 1% 2016: approximately 1% of net Basis for information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our assets of 3,862.7 million 2016: 3,757.1 million.
determining Based on the procedures performed, we concluded that the methodology and assumptions used in valuing the pension scheme liabilities are Key report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
This is capped at 95% 2016: 95% of Group materiality observations considered to be within an acceptable range.
materiality which we considered appropriate for the In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility We concurred with the treatment and calculation of the future funding contributions of the Group.
consolidation of this set of financial statements to is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the the Groups results.
The increase in materiality is other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements driven by the increase in Group materiality.
or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be Rationale for Net assets is used as the benchmark as this entity materially misstated.
Accounting for the leasehold provision the benchmark is a Parent Company and not a trading entity.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material Refer to page 66 Audit Committee Report page 111 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and page 115 applied misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material Financial statements disclosures.
misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the We use performance materiality to detect misstatements at a lower level of As described in Note 6 at the AGM in April 2017 the Group completed their review in relation to certain historical lease structures.
As a result of Key audit other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude precision: for the current year this is set at 28.0 million 2016: 25.2 million this review the Group provided 130.0 million in the first half of the year-ended 31 December 2017 for future costs in order to alter the terms of matter that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are for the Group and 26.6 million 2016: 25.1 million for the Parent the current lease.
The provision at 31 December 2017 stands at 127.6 million, the small reduction relating to costs incurred and payments description required to report that fact.
This is lower than materiality and is used to determine the size of made in the six month period.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as the samples that are selected for audit work and in forming the conclusions During the year, the Group has completed negotiations with the majority of freeholders and has agreed the framework under which payments uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where that we make during the course of our procedures.
can be made to change the current lease structures.
we conclude that: We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Accounting for these provisions is complex and involves Management making a number of forward-looking estimates.
The key judgements Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.5 million 2016: 1.0 million related to this key audit matter lie in estimating the final settlements with the stakeholders impacted by the historical lease structures.
that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a for the Group and 1.5 million 2016: 1.0 million for the Parent Company, whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information This provision has multiple components that relate to discussions with a number of parties including freeholders and individual customers.
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business Within the provision are additional costs relating to the implementation of the measures that have been identified.
This increase in threshold is the result of an model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained increase in the Groups pre-tax profit during the year.
We also report to the There are a number of risks associated with this provision: in the audit: or Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing Costs could be provided that the Group is not yet committed to incur, or obligated to pay, thereby inflating the provision.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us For costs that are provided there is a risk that these are inaccurately estimated or valued.
An overview of the scope of our audit to the Audit Committee: or Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group In addressing this risk, we have obtained Managements estimation of the total costs.
For each component of the provision we have performed How the Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks procedures to assess, based on current facts and circumstances, whether the estimates made by Management are reasonable.
scope of Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we our audit Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate We have held discussions with legal counsel to ascertain whether Managements model reflects the progress of negotiations that have been focused our Group audit scope primarily on the UK Housing division responded Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor held with freeholders.
excluding joint ventures which represents the principal segment within the to the key in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a Group and accounts for 98% 2016: 98% of the Groups net operating The largest component of this calculation is the payments to be made to freeholders in order to alter the terms of the leases.
In order to verify audit matter departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
assets, 98% 2016: 97% of the Groups revenue and 97% 2016: 98% of these amounts we have reviewed the status of negotiations with freeholders and, where these negotiations have been completed, obtained the the Groups pre-tax profit before exceptional income.
Our audit work We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
agreements and recalculated the specific amounts that have been provided for.
on the principal segment was executed at a lower level of materiality Responsibilities of Directors We have performed procedures to assess the completeness of the customers affected through an analysis of applications and verification to the 38.0 million 2016: 34.2 million.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the We audit a number of the Groups UK subsidiaries which are subject to Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and Based on the procedures performed, we considered the provision calculated by Management to be prudent.
However, our estimate of any Key audit at statutory materiality level, which in most cases is substantially lower for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal potential overstatement in the provision is below materiality and, if adjusted would not have increased the post-tax profit of the Group by a observations than Group materiality.
The statutory audits are finalised subsequent to the control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation material amount at 31 December 2017. audit of the Group accounts.
of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether For the Spanish operations and material joint ventures desktop review due to fraud or error.
procedures are conducted by the UK team.
co. uk Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
