Financial Statements 27. Business combinations On 7 July 2017, the Group acquired Enza Biotech AB, a research enterprise established as a spin-out company from Lund University in Sweden.
Enza Biotechs patented technology will enable us to create the next generation of renewable surfactants using carbohydratebased chemistry, and enhance our well-established natural and renewable product portfolio to offer our customers, particularly in Personal Care and Life Sciences markets.
On 8 December 2017, the Group acquired IonPhasE OY, an innovative technology provider of static electricity dissipation solutions for electronic and automotive applications, headquartered in Tampere, Finland.
IonPhasEs products are a natural extension to our existing product portfolio and by bringing together the expertise of both research and development teams, a broader and more diverse range will be made available to customers through our Smart Materials marketing and sales force within our Performance Technologies sector.
The following table summarises the Directors provisional assessment of the consideration paid in respect of the acquisitions, thefairvalue of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Enza Biotech IonPhasE m m Consideration inclusive of debt and deferred consideration 10.7 20.9 Fair value of assets and liabilities acquired Intangible assets 5.8 12.3 Property, plant and equipment 3.0 Inventories 0.8 Trade and other receivables 1.1 Trade and other payables 0.8 Taxation 1.0 2.4 Total identifiable net assets 4.8 14.0 Goodwill 5.9 6.9 Total consideration is inclusive of 2.6m deferred consideration not contingent upon any performance criteria.
The goodwill is attributable to the synergies expected to arise from the combination of the acquired technologies and the Groups global sales and marketing network.
It will not be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs of 0.8m have been charged to administration expenses intheconsolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017.
During 2017, the Group completed its fair value review of the 2016 acquisition of Inventiva Indstria e Inovao em Produtos Cosmticos Ltda.
This review did not identify any changes to the asset base nor goodwill.
Contingent liabilities The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the course of business.
These contingent liabilities are reviewed on a regular basisand where possible an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group.
The Group is also involved in certain legal and environmental actions and proceedings.
Whilst the Group cannot predict the outcome ofany current or future actions or proceedings with any certainty, it currently believes the likelihood of any material liabilities to be low, and that the liabilities, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
TheGroup also considers it has insurance in place in relation to any significant contingent liabilities.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 125
