Oth Other information er information 175 175 Glossary ABC1 customers Interest rate swap Proportion of customers within UK social groups A, B and A derivative financial instrument enabling parties to exchange C1, defined as members of households whose chief earners interest rate obligations for a predetermined period.
These are occupation is professional, higher or intermediate management, used by the Group to convert floating rate debt to fixed rates.
IPD Annual property income Investment Property Databank Limited, producer of an The Groups share of passing rent plus the independent external independent benchmark of property returns.
valuers estimate of annual excess turnover rent and sundry Like-for-like property income such as that from car parks and mall commercialisation.
Investment property which has been owned throughout both CACI periods without significant capital expenditure in either period, Provide market research on intus customers and UK-wide so that income can be compared on a like-for-like basis.
purposes of comparison of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous reporting period end but not Debt to assets ratio throughout the prior period.
Net external debt divided by the market value of investment Long-term lease and development property including investment and development property classified as held for sale.
A lease with a term certain of at least five years.
Diluted figures LTV loan to value Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of dilutive The ratio of attributable debt to the market value of an potential shares issuable under convertible bonds and employee investment property.
NAV per share diluted, adjusted Earnings per share NAV per share calculated on a diluted basis and adjusted Profit for the year attributable to owners of intu properties plc to remove the fair value of derivatives net of tax, goodwill divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue resulting from the recognition of deferred tax liabilities, and during the period.
deferred tax on investment and development property and other investments.
EPRA Net asset value NAV per share European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best Practice Recommendations intended to make financial Net assets attributable to owners of intu properties plc divided statements of public real estate companies in Europe clearer, by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the year end.
Net external debt ERV estimated rental value Net debt after removing the Metrocentre compound financial The independent external valuers estimate of the Groups instrument and including net debt within liabilities associated share of the current annual market rent of all lettable space with assets classified as held for sale.
after expiry of concessionary periods net of any non-recoverable Net initial yield EPRA charges but before bad debt provisions.
Annualised net rent on investment property after deduction Exceptional items of revenue costs such as head rent, running void, service Items that in the Directors view are required to be separately charge after shortfalls, empty rates and merchant association disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Underlying contribution expressed as a percentage of the gross market earnings is considered to be a key measure in understanding the value before deduction of theoretical acquisition costs, Groups financial performance, and excludes exceptional items.
consistent with EPRAs net initial yield, and as provided by the Groups independent external valuers.
Headline rent ITZA Net rental income Annual contracted rent per square foot after expiry of concessionary periods in terms of Zone A.
The Groups share of net rents receivable as shown in the income statement, having taken due account of Interest cover non-recoverable costs, bad debt provisions and adjustments Underlying operating profit divided by the net finance costs to comply with IFRS including those regarding tenant excluding the change in fair value of financial instruments, lease incentives.
exceptional finance costs and amortisation of the Metrocentre compound financial instrument.
176 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 176 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Glossary continued NNNAV per share diluted, adjusted Scrip Dividend Scheme NAV per share diluted, adjusted adjusted to include the The Group may offer shareholders the opportunity to fair values of derivatives, borrowings and deferred taxes.
participate in the Scrip Dividend Scheme.
This enables participating shareholders to receive shares instead of cash Nominal equivalent yield when a Scrip Alternative is offered for a particular dividend.
Effective annual yield to a purchaser from an asset at market Short-term lease value before taking account of notional acquisition costs assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, reflecting A lease with a term certain of less than five years.
ERV but disregarding potential changes in market rents, SOCIMI as determined by the Groups independent external valuers.
The Spanish equivalent of a Real Estate Investment Trust.
Occupancy Tenant or lease incentives The passing rent of let and under-offer units expressed as a percentage of the passing rent of let and under-offer units Any incentives offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
plus ERV of un-let units, excluding development and recently Typically, incentives are in the form of an initial rent-free completed properties.
Units let to tenants in administration period and or a cash contribution to fit out the premises.
and still trading are treated as let and those no longer trading Under IFRS the value of incentives granted to tenants is are treated as un-let.
amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Passing rent Topped-up NIY EPRA The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at Net initial yield NIY adjusted for the expiration of rent-free the balance sheet date.
This takes no account of accounting periods and other unexpired lease incentives.
adjustments made in respect of rent free periods or tenant incentives, the reclassification of certain lease payments as Total financial return finance charges or any irrecoverable costs and expenses, and The change in NAV per share diluted, adjusted plus dividends does not include excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect per share paid in the year expressed as a percentage of opening of unsettled rent reviews or sundry income such as from car NAV per share diluted, adjusted.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in administration are excluded.
Total property return PMA The change in capital value, less any capital expenditure Property Market Analysis LLP, a producer of property market incurred, plus net income in the year expressed as a percentage research and forecasting.
of the capital employed opening capital value plus capital expenditure incurred in the year as calculated by IPD.
Property Income Distribution PID Underlying earnings per share EPS A dividend, generally subject to UK withholding tax at the basic rate of income tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay to its Earnings per share adjusted to exclude valuation movements, shareholders from its qualifying rental profits.
Certain classes exceptional items and related tax.
of shareholder may qualify to receive a PID gross, shareholders Underlying figures should refer to intugroup.
co. uk for further information.
The Group can also pay non-PID dividends which are not subject Amounts described as underlying exclude valuation to UK withholding tax.
movements, exceptional items and related tax.
Vacancy rate EPRA Real Estate Investment Trust REIT The ERV of vacant space divided by total ERV.
REITs are internationally recognised property investment vehicles which have now been introduced in many countries Yield shift around the world.
Each country has its own rules, but the broad A movement usually expressed in basis points in the yield intention of REITs is to encourage investment in domestic of a property asset.
property by removing tax distortions for investors.
In the UK, REITs must meet certain ongoing rules and regulations, including the requirement to distribute at least 90 per cent of qualifying rental profits to shareholders.
Withholding tax of 20 per cent is deducted from these Property Income Distributions.
Profits from a REITs non-property business remain subject to normal corporation tax.
The Group elected for REIT status in the UK with effect from 1 January 2007.
