SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES Year ended 31 December 2017 Ore reserves and mineral resources estimation methods The Republic of Kazakhstan inherited the classification system and estimation methods for minerals that were established by the Former Soviet Union FSU.
Updated Regulations for the Classification of Non-ferrous Metals Reserves became law in Kazakhstan in 2006.
In practice, this means that the statements of resources and reserves developed by KAZ Minerals and the mining plans to which they relate must be submitted for approval to the corresponding committees of the Ministry for Investment and Development, for which adherence to the standardised national system of resource and reserve estimation is mandatory.
Mineral deposits are classified according to their degree of geological complexity into one of three deposit categories for copper deposits, which determine the density of exploration sampling and the proportions and classifications of GKZ State Commission on Mineral Reserves reserves that must be estimated.
As part of the exploitation licence for each mineral deposit, a set of Conditions for Estimation of Reserves are prepared by a Kazakhstan licenced design institute and submitted for approval to the State.
The Conditions for each deposit specify the minimum thickness for exploitation of the ore body and cut-off grades, plus special considerations which may apply where the conditions for mineral extraction are exceptional or present difficulties.
Resources and reserves have traditionally been estimated by KAZ Minerals according to the FSUs Classification and Estimation Methods for Reserves.
It is apparent that there is a growing trend towards greater flexibility and discussion between state authorities and mining companies with respect to resource estimation methods.
This has been reflected in the increased use of computers and associated software by KAZ Minerals in order to maintain records about reserves at the operating mines and using databases linked to modelling software to assist in exploration and preliminary resource estimation.
DMT Consulting Ltd DMT, the Groups consultant in resource and reserve estimation, recognises that this is an important step towards achieving verifiable and internally consistent resource and reserve estimates.
For the operating mines in the East Region and Kyrgyzstan, DMT has reviewed the reserves statements of KAZ Minerals and presented them in accordance with the criteria required to meet JORC standards.
Guidelines on the Alignment of Kazakh minerals reporting standards and the CRIRSCO Template were published during 2015 as a joint initiative of the Committee for Mineral Reserves International Reporting Standards CRIRSCO and the Kazakh Committee of Geology and Subsoil Use and State Reserves Committee.
The guidelines have been used to align categories of reserves A, B, C and C with appropriate, internationally recognised, Mineral 1 2 Resource categories Measured, Indicated and Inferred.
The JORC Competent Person, however, remains responsible for any estimate that is reported.
Mineral Resources, by definition, must have reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
In general, therefore, the total active balance reserve, where no unresolvable problems are foreseen, is considered as the Mineral Resource.
Balanced reserves in categories B and C are assigned to the Measured Mineral Resource and the C category is assigned to the Indicated Mineral Resource.
Ore Reserves 1 2 in Proved and Probable categories are then converted from the Resources, after consideration of mining plans and after the application of appropriate modifying factors for loss and dilution.
Legal approval for the exploitation of a particular reserve block is also taken into consideration.
For KAZ Minerals new mining operations at Aktogay and Bozshakol, and the growth project at Koksay, DMT has based the assessment of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves on estimates derived from computer modelling that are estimated in accordance with the guidelines of JORC, typically by external consultants.
The JORC Code specifies that a Pre-feasibility Study is the minimum level of engineering design required before a Mineral Resource can be converted to an Ore Reserve.
The Bozshakol and Aktogay operations were developed following international best practice, which included the creation of a computerised geological model.
GKZ estimates of tonnage and metal content will continue to be undertaken to comply with national Kazakh requirements.
DMT, however, believes that these projects will be best understood by potential investors if the resources and reserves are reported along conventional international lines from the outset, using the JORC Code.
Stockpiling of mined ore is common practice at large open pit mines, usually as a means of providing a consistent tonnage and grade feed to the processing plant.
DMT will include stockpiled ore in the inventory of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, but refer to the quantity of material held in stockpile at year end.
In the case of mined ore added to a heap leach pad, this is considered as in process and hence is not included in the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource Statement.
DMTs visit to KAZ Minerals Almaty office for this years audit took place in November 2017.
Mine production data for the operating assets has therefore been based on actual figures until October 2017 and then based on forecasts to arrive at end-of-year results.
The assessment of Inferred Resources for KAZ Minerals is incomplete.
The mines do not keep records of prognosticated reserves as defined in Kazakhstan, categories P1, P2 and P3 under GKZ, which may include material that could be considered equivalent to the JORC category of Inferred Resources.
Inferred Resources are shown in the tabulations for Aktogay, Bozshakol and Koksay where model based estimates have been used and Inferred Resources have been categorised as such by a Competent Person under the JORC Code.
All Ore Reserves quoted in the following tables are discounted for ore losses and dilution and refer to estimates of tonnes and contained metal grades at the point of delivery to the processing plant.
Mineral Resources are not discounted for losses and dilution and are inclusive of Ore Reserves.
All figures in reserves and resources are in dry metric tonnes and are dated as at 31 December 2017. www.
Reserves Resources Ore Loss Dilution.
2 The total East Region reserves for 2016 include 16 kt attributable to  mine.
The mine ceased operations at the end of 2016.
3 The molybdenum grade at Aktogay shown in the Proved Reserve is estimated to the Probable Reserve level of confidence.
4 Gold and silver grades for Bozshakol are estimated to the Inferred Resource level of confidence and have not been converted to reserves.
The Mineral Resource grades for sulphide ore are 0.1 g t for gold and 1.3 g t for silver, and for clay ore, 0.7 g t for gold and 1.3 g t for silver.
5 Reserve tonnages for Bozshakol include stockpiled material.
6 The Bozshakol deposit is subject to ongoing infill drilling which once analysed, will be used to update the geological model and the ore reserves and mineral resources statement.
The initial results indicate that sections of the transition zone at the top of the ore body may contain some clay bearing ore currently classified as sulphide.
No ore loss or dilution has been included.
2 The total East Region resources for 2016 includes 15 kt of Indicated Resources attributable to the  mine which ceased operations in 2016.
3 Inferred Resources for East Region and Bozymchak mines are nil.
4 Molybdenum grades at Aktogay, although shown in Measured Resources, are estimated only to the Indicated Resource level of confidence.
5 The Bozshakol gold, silver and molybdenum grades, although shown in Measured and Indicated Resources, are estimated only at the Inferred Resource level of confidence.
6 Resource tonnages for Bozshakol include stockpiled material.
7 The Bozshakol deposit is subject to ongoing infill drilling which once analysed, will be used to update the geological model and the ore reserves and mineral resources statement.
8 Gold is concentrated within a portion of the Koksay deposit so the gold tonnage and grade are reported separately.
The Measured and Indicated Resource containing gold is 249.5 Mt at a grade of 0.07 g t. 166 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 166 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Revision of ore reserves and mineral resources statement to 31 December 2017 DMT Consulting Ltd DMT or the Consultant has undertaken a review of the estimate of the Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves prepared by KAZ Minerals PLC the Company, as the basis for the preparation of a statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves for the Company as at 31 December 2017.
Tabulations of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, comparisons with the previous annual statement and short technical descriptions are provided for the Companys copper and gold assets.
DMTs technical understanding of the mines and projects held by KAZ Minerals is largely based on the Competent Persons Reports that IMC prior to changing name to DMT prepared for the Company in 2005, for the London listing, and again in 2010, for the Hong Kong listing.
Additional technical site visits have been made since 2010 when DMT considered them necessary, either to look at new assets or where significant material changes have taken place e. g. new exploration drilling.
As part of the 2017 review, DMT consultants visited the underground operation at Irtyshsky and the Bozshakol open pit mine.
Technical familiarity with the Companys mines and projects is a critical aspect of the annual review, in support of what is primarily a desktop exercise.
The annual review of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves carried out by DMT is predominantly focused on mine reserve reports, depletion through production, analysis of Company plans, new exploration results, new technical reports and other changes affecting the Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
The Statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves is restated in accordance with the criteria of the 2012 version of the Australasian Code for Reporting Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, published by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and collaborating institutions the JORC Code.
The consideration of Mineral Resources is based on the JORC definition which says that a Mineral Resource is an occurrence of minerals in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
In converting Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves in accordance with the JORC Code, DMT considers a number of Modifying Factors.
Consequently, the Code defines an Ore Reserve as the economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that extraction could reasonably be justified.
The term economically mineable has no fixed definition in the JORC Code, and short-term fluctuations in factors such as metal prices or operating expenditure do not warrant the re-classification from Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources.
If, however, the changes are expected to be long term or permanent in nature, then such re-classification is required.
For the sake of clarity in this report, references to the JORC categories Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource are capitalised.
The noncapitalised term reserve refers to the Kazakh use of the word which can, depending on the context, be synonymous with both JORC terms Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource.
DMT is satisfied, from the audit undertaken, that the recently revised estimates of resources and reserves prepared by the Company for the East Region and Bozymchak operating mines are in accordance with the classification system required by law in the Republic of Kazakhstan and that, correspondingly, the estimates have a consistent basis for expressing the degree of confidence for stating quantities of exploitable minerals at specific grades of metal content.
On the basis of the estimates supplied by the Company, DMT has applied the same technical criteria as used in previous audits, for preparation of the restatement of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources as at 31 December 2017, in accordance with the reporting criteria of the JORC Code.
Guidelines for the alignment of Russian minerals reporting standards and the JORC Code were published in 2010 and these have been applied in the preparation of the Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve statement for the East Region and Bozymchak mines.
This is considered appropriate as all of these mineral deposits were explored during the Soviet era and reserves approved during that era are still referenced.
The aim of the guidelines is to provide a standard reporting terminology for use in disclosure of the assets of mining companies to stock markets.
Simon Pepper Director Mining, DMT Consulting Ltd February 2018 DMT Consulting Ltd st 1 Floor Geneva-1 Building D Unit 8, Lake View Drive Sherwood Park Nottingham NG15 0ED United Kingdom www.
