160 Other information GLOSSARY Adjusted EPRA earnings Financing costs Net initial yield NIY or yield Adjusted EPRA earnings are prepared on Gross financing costs net of interest The net operating income generated by the basis of EPRA earnings excluding the capitalised into developments and a property expressed as a percentage of yield related element of the USAF interest received on deposits.
its value, taking into account notional performance fee.
Gross asset value Adjusted EPRA earnings per share The Groups wholly owned property portfolio Net operating income NOI The earnings per share based on adjusted together with the share of the Joint Ventures The rental income from rental properties EPRA earnings.
less those operating costs directly related to the property, therefore excluding central overhead.
Adjusted net debt Gross financing costs The Groups debt, net of cash and This includes all interest paid by the unamortised debt raising costs, excluding Group, including those capitalised Net rental growth the mark to market of interest rates swaps.
into developments and operating The annual growth in net operating lease rentals.
income measured on a like-for-like basis, ie excluding impact of completion Adjusted gearing The adjusted net debt as a percentage It includes all receipts and payments under and disposals.
interest rate swaps whether they are effective of the value of Unite properties.
or ineffective under IFRS as economically Nominations they all hedge interest rate exposures.
Basis points BPS Properties where Universities have entered into a contract to guarantee occupancy.
A basis point is a term used to describe a small percentage, usually in the context Interest cover ratio ICR The Universities nominate students to live in The interest cover ratio is the income the building and Unite enters into short-hold of change, and equates to 0.01%.
generated by a property as a multiple of tenancies with the students.
the interest charge on the debt secured Direct let on the property.
Non-core assets Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements are made directly between Properties that do not fit with the Groups Lease long-term investment strategy because Unite and the student.
Properties which are leased to Universities of their location or their size.
for a number of years and have no Unite EBITDA management presence.
Overhead efficiency The Groups EPRA earnings before charging interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The Groups overhead efficiency Like-for-like rental growth measure shows operating expenses, The profit number is used to calculate the ratio to net debt.
Like-for-like rental growth is the growth net of management fees, as a proportion in net operating income on properties of the total property portfolio.
owned throughout the current and EPRA earnings previous years under review.
EPRA earnings are prepared on the basis Rental properties Investment and completed properties recommended for real estate companies by EPRA, the European Public Real Estate Loan to value LTV whose construction has been completed The Loan to value LTV ratio is the and are used by the Operations segment Association.
This excludes movements relating to changes in values of investment debt on properties as a proportion of to generate net portfolio contribution.
the carrying value of the total property properties and interest rate swaps and the related tax effects.
This ratio is calculated on the basis Sale and leaseback of EPRA net assets.
Properties that have been sold to a third party investor then leased back to the EPRA earnings per share The earnings per share based on LSAV Company.
Unite is also responsible for the The London Student Accommodation Joint management of these assets on behalf of EPRA earnings.
Venture LSAV is a joint venture between the owner.
Unite and GIC, alongside UCC.
Both Unite EPRA NAV and GIC have a 50% stake and LSAV has Total accounting return EPRA NAV is prepared on the basis the same maturity date as UCC September recommended for real estate companies This is the growth in EPRA NAV per share plus 2022.
It is the primary vehicle through which dividends paid, and this is expressed as a by EPRA, the European Public Real Estate Unite undertakes development activity in Association.
This includes all property at percentage of EPRA NAV per share at the London and it has right of first refusal over beginning of the period.
market value but excludes the mark to market Unites London development pipeline of interest rate swaps.
This is recommended by projects until such time as its capital EPRA as a measure of net assets.
USAF THE FUND investment targets are met.
LSAV and UCC The Unite UK Student Accommodation Fund were merged during 2012 and the new EPRA net asset value per share USAF is Europes largest fund that purely combined entity is referred to as LSAV.
focuses on completed income providing The diluted NAV per share figure based on EPRA NAV.
Net debt The fund is an open-ended infinite life vehicle The Group debt, net of cash and which has unique buying access to Unites EPRA NNNAV unamortised debt raising costs on the development pipeline.
Unite acts as fund As EPRA NAV but includes both debt and basis of EPRA net assets manager for the fund, as well as owning a interest rate swaps carried at market value.
This is recommended by EPRA as a spot fair Net debt: EBITDA value net asset measure.
The Group debt, net of cash and unamortised debt raising costs and excluding mark to market of interest rate swaps as a proportion of EBITDA.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Other information COMPANY INFORMATION Unite Group Executive Team Richard Smith Chief Executive Officer Joe Lister Chief Financial Officer Richard Simpson Group Property Director Registered Office South Quay House, Temple Back, Bristol BS1 6FL Registered Number in England 03199160 Company Secretary Christopher Szpojnarowicz Auditor Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square, London EC4 3BZ Financial Advisers J. P. Morgan Cazenove 25 Bank Street, London E14 5JP Numis Securities The London Stock Exchange Building 10 Paternoster Square, London EC4M 7LT Registrars Computershare Investor Services plc PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Financial PR Consultants Powerscourt 1 Tudor Street, London, EC4Y OAH THIS REPORT IS COMPLEMENTED BY A RANGE OF ONLINE INFORMATION ABOUT OUR BUSINESS INCLUDING OUR OPERATIONS AND PROPERTY DIVISIONS, OUR MARKETS, AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY.
Find out more online at www.
