Financial Statements Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Our audit approach Report on the audit of the Overview Group financial statements Overall Group materiality: 15.7 million 2016: 13.8 million, Materiality Opinion based on 5% of profit before tax.
In our opinion, Croda International Plcs We, as the Group engagement team, audited the two Audit scope Group financial statements the financial financially significant components the UK and the US statements : covering 43% of the Groups external revenues and 46% of give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups profit before tax.
the Groups affairs as at 31 December For the next seven largest components of the Group, which 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for are audited by PwC component auditors the five largest as the year then ended: full scope audits and the remaining two subject to specified have been properly prepared in procedures, we were heavily involved at all stages of their accordance with IFRSs as adopted by audits by virtue of numerous communications throughout the the European Union: and process, including the issuance of detailed audit instructions, have been prepared in accordance review and discussion of audit findings, in particular over our with the requirements of the areas of focus.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards As a result of this scoping we obtained coverage over 75% of the Group financial statements, Article the Groups external revenues and 87% of the Groups profit 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, Provision for environmental remediation.
included within the Annual Report and Key audit Accounts the Annual Report, which matters Valuation of defined benefit pension scheme liability.
comprise: the Group balance sheet as Taxation.
at 31 December 2017: the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive To the best of our knowledge and belief, respond to the risk, recognising that income, the Group statement of cash we declare that non-audit services the risk of not detecting a material flows, and the Group statement of changes prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard misstatement due to fraud is higher than in equity for the year then ended: the were not provided to the Group.
the risk of not detecting one resulting from accounting policies: and the notes to the error, as fraud may involve deliberate financial statements.
Other than those disclosed in the Directors concealment by, for example, forgery or Report, we have provided no non-audit Our opinion is consistent with our reporting intentional misrepresentations, or through services to the Group in the period from to the Audit Committee.
We designed audit procedures 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. that focused on the risk of non-compliance Basis for opinion The scope of our audit related to the Groups financial conduct We conducted our audit in accordance As part of designing our audit, we as well as ongoing legal claims as a with International Standards on Auditing determined materiality and assessed the consequence of the Groups production UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our risks of material misstatement in the of speciality chemicals.
Our tests included responsibilities under ISAs UK are further financial statements.
In particular, we review of legal correspondence, discussions described in the Auditors responsibilities looked at where the Directors made with the Groups legal counsel and for the audit of the financial statements subjective judgements, for example in managements experts.
We did not section of our report.
We believe that respect of significant accounting estimates identify any key audit matters relating to the audit evidence we have obtained is that involved making assumptions and irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of sufficient and appropriate to provide considering future events that are our audits we also addressed the risk of a basis for our opinion.
management override of internal controls, Independence including testing journals and evaluating We gained an understanding of the legal We remained independent of the Group in whether there was evidence of bias by the and regulatory framework applicable accordance with the ethical requirements Directors that represented a risk of material to the Group and the industries in which that are relevant to our audit of the financial misstatement due to fraud.
it operates, and considered the risk of statements in the UK, which includes the acts by the group which were contrary to FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to applicable laws and regulations, including listed public interest entities, and we have fraud.
We designed audit procedures to fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Croda International Plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
