154 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 6.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under 13.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be relating to: appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual i the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such Annual General Meeting: or agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company exercise of voting rights.
Such persons should direct any communications ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual and enquiries to the registered holder ofthe shares by whom they were accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 nominated and not to the Company or its registrar.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such of proxies in Notes 3 and 4 above does not apply toNominated Persons.
website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or The rights described in these notes can only be exercised by shareholders 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place of the Company.
a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the theCREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the have appointed a service provider s, should refer totheir CREST sponsor Companies Act 2006 to publish ona website.
or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate 14.
Any member attending the Meeting has the right to ask questions action on their behalf.
The Company must cause to be answered 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting service to be valid, it must be properly authenticated in accordance with but no such answer need be given if: i to do so would interfere unduly Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of information required for such instruction, as described inthe CREST confidential information: ii the answer has already been given on a Manual available via www.
Themessage, website in the form of an answer to a question: or iii it is undesirable in regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment ofa proxy or is an the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, question be answered.
in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to bereceived by the issuers 15.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Section 311Aof agent ID RA10 by 11:00 am on 24 April 2018.
For this purpose, the time the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
co. uk of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp corporate applied to the message bythe CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the 16.
Voting on all resolutions at this years Annual General Meeting will manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions beconducted by way of a poll, rather than on a show of hands.
to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the TheBoard believes that a poll is more representative of shareholders appointee through other means.
voting intentions because it gives as many shareholders as possible the opportunity to have their votes counted whether their votes are tendered 10.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors orvoting by proxy in advance of, or in person at, the Annual General Meeting.
The service providers should note that Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited does results of the poll will be announced via a Regulatory Information Service not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular and made available at www.
co. uk corporate as soon as message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in practicable after the Annual General Meeting.
relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
Itis the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, ifthe CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors orvoting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to thesame shares.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 155 Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Explanatory notes to the resolutions CREST For shares held in uncertificated form CREST, please note that elections Ordinary Business continue to apply only to one dividend and a fresh election must be made, via CREST, for each dividend.
Ordinary Resolutions Ordinary resolutions require more than half of the votes cast to be in favour.
Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions required to make or revoke an election, both in respect of maintenance dividends i. e. in Resolution 1: To receive the annual report and financial statements this case, the 2017 final dividend and any special dividends, are available at English company law requires the Directors to lay the Financial Statements of www.
com or on request from the Registrar, Link Asset Services, the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the reports ofthe The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, email: Directors, namely the Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors shares@linkgroup.
Calls are charged at the Remuneration Report, and Auditors Report: before ageneral meeting standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United oftheCompany the Annual Report.
Kingdom will be charged atthe applicable international rate.
The Registrar is open between 9:00 am and 5:30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public Resolution 2: To declare a final dividend holidays in England and Wales.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 2.44 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017.
If approved at the Resolution 4-12: Election of Directors Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 18 May 2018 to In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which shareholders who are on the Register of Members at the close of business states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual on 6 April 2018. election by shareholders, the Board has resolved that all Directors of the Company will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves forre-election or Resolution 3: To declare a special dividend election, as appropriate, by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company has announced its intention to return cash to its shareholders, Details of the Directors service contracts, remuneration and interests inthe through the payment of annual special dividends, always subject to market Companys shares and other securities are given in the Directors and performance fluctuations.
Due to the size of these special dividends, the Remuneration Report to shareholders on pages 74 to 92 of the Report and Company believes it is appropriate to seek prior shareholder approval for its Accounts.
Full biographical information concerning each Director can be payment, as it has done at the last four Annual General Meetings for found on pages 46 to 47 of the Report and Accounts.
The following summary information is given in support of the Boards proposal Further details on the rationale for paying special dividends and the link tothe for the re-election or election, as appropriate, of the Directors of the Company: Companys current strategy, can be found on page 8.
The aggregate cost of the special dividend for 2018 will be around Kevin Beeston offers himself for re-election.
340 million and will be met from profits and surplus cash generated during Kevin has been Chairman of the Board since July 2010.
If approved, it will be paid on 13 July 2018 to shareholders on the that he continues to carry out his duties to a very high standard including at register at the close of business on 1 June 2018. meetings of the Board and of the Nomination Committee which he Chairs and the Remuneration Committee, and that he will be able to allocate Dividend Re-Investment Plan sufficient time to the Company to discharge his responsibilities.
His biography appears on page 46 and there is additional information on page 58.
Subject to shareholders approving either or both of the dividends as set out in Resolutions 2 and 3 at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 26 April 2018, Pete Redfern offers himself for re-election.
the Company will be offering a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP on each Pete has been Chief Executive since July 2007 and was previously Group one.
The DRIP is provided and administered by the DRIP plan administrator, Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc.
His biography appears on page 46 Link Market Services Trustees Limited, which is authorised andregulated by the and there is additional information on page 58.
The DRIP offers shareholders the opportunity to elect to invest cash dividends received ontheir ordinary shares, in purchasing Ryan Mangold offers himself for re-election.
further ordinary shares of the Company.
These shares would be bought in the Ryan has been Group Finance Director since November 2010.
Hisbiography market, on competitive dealing terms.
appears on page 46 and there is additional information onpage 58.
The DRIP will operate automatically in respect of the Final Dividend for 2017 unless varied beforehand by shareholders and all future dividends, including James Jordan offers himself for re-election.
special dividends, until such time as you withdraw from the DRIP or the DRIP James has been Group Legal Director since July 2011 and is also theGroup is suspended or terminated in accordance with the Terms and Conditions.
Company Secretary, a position he has held since 2007.
Priorto2007 he held the same role, pre-merger, with George Wimpey Plc.
Hisbiography appears Shareholders are again reminded to check the position with regard to any on page 46 and there is additional information onpage 58. dividend mandates that are in place, should you either wish to participate in the DRIP or discontinue or vary any participation, as existing mandates will Kate Barker DBE offers herself for re-election.
apply to all dividend payments including special dividends unless Kate has been an Independent Non Executive Director since April 2011 and oruntil revoked.
will become the Companys Senior Independent Director with effect from the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
The Board is satisfied that she continues to be independent in character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the Board and ofthe Remuneration Committee which she Chairs and the Audit and Nomination Committees, and will do so going forward as Senior Independent Director, and that she will be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge her responsibilities.
Herbiography appears on page 46 and there is additional information onpage 58. taylorwimpey.
co. uk 156 Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Mike Hussey offers himself for re-election.
Resolution 14: Authorisation of the Audit Committee to agree on Mike has been an Independent Non Executive Director since July 2011.
The behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte as auditor Board is satisfied that he is independent in character and judgement in The Board seeks shareholders authority for the Audit Committee to determine applying his expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Audit and on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte for their services.
The Nomination Committees, and that he will be able to allocate sufficient time to Board has adopted a procedure governing the appointment of Deloitte to the Company to discharge his responsibilities effectively.
His biography carry out non-audit services, details of which are given in the Audit Committee appears on page 47 and there is additional information on page 58.
Details of non-audit services performed by Deloitte in 2017 are given in Note 6 on page 116 of the Report and Accounts.
Angela Knight CBE offers herself for re-election.
Angela has been an Independent Non Executive Director since November Resolution 15: Authority to allot shares 2016.
The Board is satisfied that she is independent in character and The Directors wish to renew the existing authority to allot unissued shares in judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Audit, the Company, which was granted at the Companys last Annual General Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and that she will be able to Meeting held on 27 April 2017 and is due to expire at the conclusion of this allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge her responsibilities Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Paragraph A of resolution 15 would effectively.
Her biography appears on page 47 and there is additional give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to information on page 58 subscribe for or convert any securities into ordinary shares uptoan aggregate nominal amount equal to 10,920,922 representing 1,092,092,200 ordinary Humphrey Singer offers himself for re-election.
This amount represents approximately one-third of the issued Humphrey has been an Independent Non Executive Director since December ordinary share capital of the Company as at 5 March 2018, the latest 2015.
The Board is satisfied that he is independent in character and practicable date prior to publication of this Notice ofMeeting.
judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Audit In line with guidance issued by The Investment Association formerly the Committee which he Chairs and the Nomination Committee, and that he will Association of British Insurers TIA, paragraph B of resolution 15would give be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for responsibilities effectively.
His biography appears on page 47 and there is or convert any securities into ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue additional information on page 58. in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 21,841,845 representing 2,184,184,500 ordinary shares, as reduced by Gwyn Burr offers herself for election.
the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph A of resolution Gwyn has been an Independent Non Executive Director since 15.
This amount before any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of 1 February 2018, having been appointed by the Board since the last AGM.
the issued ordinary share capital ofthe Company as at 5 March 2018, the The Board is satisfied that she is independent in character and judgement in latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice of Meeting.
applying her expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and that she will be able to allocate sufficient time The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
to the Company to discharge her responsibilities effectively.
Her biography The authorities sought under paragraphs A and B of resolution 15 will expire appears on page 47 and there is additional information on page 58. at the earlier of 25 July 2019 and the conclusion of the Annual General The Board confirms that each of the above Directors other than Gwyn Burr Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019. due to her appointment on 1 February 2018 and as explained on page 59 The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the authorities has recently been subject to formal performance evaluation, details of which sought under this resolution.
However, if they do exercise the authorities, the are set out in the Corporate Governance Report in the Report and Accounts Directors intend to follow TIA recommendations concerning their use on page 61, and that each continues to demonstrate commitment and to be including as regards the Directors standing for re-election in certain cases.
an effective member of the Board.
7.2 ofthe Code, the Chairman hereby confirms Special Resolutions that, following the formal performance evaluation referred to above, the Special resolutions require at least a 75% majority of votes cast performance of each of the Non Executive Directors continues to be effective tobecastin favour.
and that each continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Resolutions 16 and 17: Authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights Resolution 13: Re-appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte as auditor Resolutions 16 and 17 will be proposed as special resolutions, each of which requires a 75% majority of the votes to be cast in favour.
They would give the ofthe Company Directors the power to allot ordinary shares or sell any ordinary shares which The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at the Company holds in treasury for cash without first offering them to existing which accounts are laid before the shareholders.
It is therefore proposed that shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
the auditor is appointed from the conclusion of the 2018 Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts The power set out in resolution 16 would be, similar to previous years, limited are laid before shareholders.
Following an annual review ofDeloittes to: a allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to performance, details of which are set out on page 65, and following holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those shares, or as consideration of the guidance on the timing of the rotation of the external the Board otherwise considers necessary, or b otherwise up to an aggregate auditor, details of which are set out on page 65, theBoard recommends the nominal amount of 1,638,138 representing 163,813,800 ordinary shares.
re-appointment of Deloitte as the Companys auditor.
This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 5 March 2018, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 157 In respect of the power under resolution 16 B, the Directors confirm their The Directors are required to prepare the Directors Remuneration Report, intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of comprising an annual report detailing the remuneration of the Directors Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year and a statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% of the issued Company is required to seek shareholders approval in respect of the ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares should not contents of this report on an annual basis excluding the part containing the take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
Directors Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders at the Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting when it was proposed for its latest Resolution 17 is intended to give the Company flexibility to make non three-yearly vote.
The vote on the Directors Remuneration Report is an pre-emptive issues of ordinary shares in connection with acquisitions and advisory one.
other capital investments as contemplated by the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles.
The power under resolution 17 is in addition to that Resolution 20: Authority to make political donations proposed by resolution 16 and would be limited to allotments or sales of up to In order to comply with its obligations under the Companies Act 2006 andto an aggregate nominal amount of 1,638,138 representing 163,813,800 avoid any inadvertent infringement of that Act, the Board wishes torenew its ordinary shares in addition to the power set out in resolution 16.
This existing authority for a general level of political donation and or expenditure.
aggregate nominal amount represents an additional 5% of the issued ordinary Resolution 20 seeks to renew the existing authority for the Company to make share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 5 March 2018, political donations and incur political expenditure.
TheCompanies Act 2006 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
requires this authority to be divided into three heads as set out in Resolution The powers under resolutions 16 and 17 will expire at the earlier of 20 with a separate amount specified aspermitted for each.
An amount not 25 July 2019 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the exceeding 250,000 for each head of the authority has been proposed.
In Company held in 2019. accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Resolution 20 extends approval to all of the Companys subsidiaries.
Resolution 18: Authority to make market purchases of shares This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Any purchases under this authority would be made in one or more tranches ofthe Company in 2019, unless renewal is sought at that meeting.
and would be limited in aggregate to 10% of the ordinary shares of the Company in issue at the close of business on 5 March 2018.
The Company and the Group do not make any donations to political parties or organisations and do not intend to going forward, but do support certain The minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary industry-wide bodies such as the Home Builders Federation in the UK.
Whilst share is 1 pence per ordinary share.
The maximum price to be paid on any the Board does not regard this as political innature, in certain circumstances exercise of the authority would notexceed the highest of i 105% of the such support together with donations made for charitable or similar purposes average of the middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary shares could possibly be treated as a donation to a political organisation under the for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase: relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
For example, a donation to a and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest humanitarian charity which may also operate as a political lobby, sponsorship, current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried subscriptions, paid leave to employees fulfilling public duties and payments to out.
Shares purchased pursuant to these authorities could be held as treasury industry representative bodies could constitute a donation to a political shares, which the Company can re-issue quickly and cost-effectively, and organisation within the current definitions in the Companies Act 2006. provides the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The total number of shares held as treasury shall not at any one Details of the Companys and the Groups charitable donations appear time exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
Accordingly, any onpages 96 to 97 of the Report and Accounts.
shares bought back over the 10% limit will be cancelled.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
Special Resolution This is a standard resolution, sought by the majority of public listed companies Resolution 21: Notice of general meetings at Annual General Meetings.
The Boards current intention of utilising this Special resolutions require at least a 75% majority of votes cast tobecastin authority is generally limited to acquiring shares for the various share scheme favour.
The Board would only consider a more formal share purchase This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore requires programme if it would result in an increase in earnings per share and was in a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
The Companies Shareholders the best interests of shareholders generally, having regard to all Rights Regulations 2009 have increased the notice period required for relevant circumstances.
general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days unless shareholders agree The total number of options and conditional share awards to subscribe for to a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
At the ordinary shares outstanding as at the close of business on 5 March 2018 was 2017 Annual General Meeting, a resolution was passed approving the 37,779,438, representing approximately 1.2% of the issued ordinary share Companys ability to call general meetings other than Annual General capital of the Company as at that date and approximately 1.3% of the Meetings, which will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice on Companys issued ordinary share capital following any exercise in full of this not less than 14 clear days notice.
As this approval will expire at the authority to make market purchases.
conclusion of this Annual General Meeting, Resolution 21 proposes its renewal.
The shorter notice period of 14 clear days would not be used as a This authority will last until the earlier of 25 October 2019 and the conclusion matter of routine for any general meeting, butonly where the flexibility is of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2019. merited by the business of a particular meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Therenewed approval will be effective Special Business until the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2019, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Ordinary Resolutions Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear Resolution 19 days notice, the Company must in respect of that meeting make available The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee is seeking electronic voting to all shareholders.
shareholders approval of the Directors Remuneration Report the Directors Remuneration Report in Resolution 19, which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
co. uk 158 Shareholder Information Shareholder Facilities standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Shareholders services Kingdom will becharged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open Web communications between 9:00am and 5:30 pm Monday to Friday excluding public holidays inEngland and Wales.
Shareholders have previously passed a resolution enabling the Company to make documents and information available to shareholders by electronic Dividend mandates means and via a website, rather than by sending hard copies.
This way of communicating is enabled in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Rule We strongly encourage all shareholders to receive their cash dividends 6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Companys Articles bydirect transfer to a bank or building society account.
This ensures that of Association.
dividends are credited promptly to shareholders without the cost and inconvenience of having to pay in dividend cheques at a bank.
If you wish to Making documents and information available electronically: use this cost-effective and simple facility, complete and return the dividend Enables the Company to reduce printing and postage costs.
mandate form attached to your dividend cheque.
Additional mandate forms may be obtained from Link Asset Services.
Allows faster access to information and enables shareholders to access documents on the day they are published on the Companys website.
Duplicate share register accounts Reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, and lessens If you are receiving more than one copy of our Report and Accounts, itmay the impact of printing and mailing activities on the environment.
be that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our Register of The Company provides hard copy documentation to those shareholders who Members.
You might wish to consider merging them into one single entry.
have requested this and is, of course, happy to provide hard copies to any Please contact Link Asset Services who will be pleased tocarry out your shareholders upon request.
The Companys website is www.
co. uk and shareholder documentation made available electronically is generally accessible at Share dealing services www.
co. uk corporate  We have arranged both telephone and online share dealing services.
Link Share Dealing Services allows you to buy and sell shares in a large number of Electronic communications companies that have Link as their registrar.
The services areoperated by Link The Company also encourages shareholders to elect to receive notification Asset Services.
To use the services either visit www.
com or of the availability of Company documentation by means of an email.
Calls are charged at the standard Shareholders can sign up for this facility by logging onto our website at geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom www.
co. uk corporate  will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open between  8:00 am and 5:30 pm Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
To deal, you will need toprovide your surname, postcode, date of Online facilities for shareholders birth and investor code whichcan be found on your share certificate or any form of proxy you have been sent.
Shareholders are not in any way obliged to You can access our Annual and Interim Reports and copies of recent use this service when dealing in the Companys shares.
shareholder communications online at: www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations reporting-centre Taylor Wimpey and CREST To register for online access, go to www.
co. uk corporate Taylor Wimpey shares can be held in CREST accounts, which do not require  and click on the service you require.
To access some share certificates.
This may make it quicker and easier for some shareholders of these services you will first be required to apply online.
to settle stock market transactions.
Shareholders who deal infrequently may, Once you have registered for access, you can make online enquiries about however, prefer to continue to hold their shares in certificated form and this your shareholding and advise the Company of changes in personal details.
facility will remain available for the time being, pending the likely general introduction of dematerialised shareholdings indue course.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan Taylor Wimpey share price You can choose to invest your cash dividends, including any special dividend, in purchasing Taylor Wimpey shares on the market under the terms of the Our share price is printed in many of the UK daily newspapers and Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP.
For further information on the Plan and isalsoavailable on our website at www.
how to join, contact Link Asset Services.
It appears on BBC Text and other digital television interactive services.
It may also be obtained by telephoning the FT Cityline service on telephone Shareholders are again reminded to check the position with regard to any 44 0 9058 171690 and ask for Taylor Wimpey onthe voice activated dividend mandates that are in place, should you either wish to participate in the response calls cost 75p per minute from a BT landline, other networks may DRIP or discontinue or vary any participation, as existing mandates will apply to vary.
all dividend payments including special dividends unless or until revoked.
Gifting shares to charity CREST If you have a small holding of Taylor Wimpey plc shares, you may wish to The Company offers shareholders who hold their Taylor Wimpey shares consider gifting them to charity.
You can do so through ShareGift, which is inCREST a facility for the receipt of dividends through the CREST system.
administered by a registered charity, Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited.
For shares held in uncertificated form CREST, please note that elections Shares gifted are re-registered in the name of the charity, combined with other continue to apply only to one dividend and a fresh election must be made, via donated shares and then sold through stockbrokers who charge no CREST, for each dividend.
The proceeds are distributed to a wide range of recognised charities.
For further details, please contact Link Asset Services orapproach Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions required to ShareGift directly on www.
org or telephone them on 44 0 20 make or revoke an election, both in respect of maintenance dividends i. e. in 7930 3737. this case, the 2017 final dividend and any special dividends, are available at www.
com or on request fromthe Registrar, Link Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, email: shares@linkgroup.
Calls are charged at the Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 159 Shareholder Facilities Unsolicited approaches to shareholders and Boiler Room scams We receive reports from time to time from Taylor Wimpey shareholders who PRINCIPAL OPERATING ADDRESSES have each received what appear to be fraudulent approaches from third parties with respect to their shareholding in the Company.
In some cases UK these are cold calls and in others correspondence.
They generally purport to Taylor Wimpey plc be from a firm of solicitors or an investment company and offer, or hold out Gate House, Turnpike Road the prospect of, large gains on Taylor Wimpey shares or other investments High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire you may hold.
HP12 3NR The approaches normally include the seeking of an advance payment from Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 the shareholder, the disclosure of the shareholders bank details or the sale of Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 an unrelated investment.
Shareholders are advised to be extremely wary of Website: www.
co. uk such approaches and advised to only deal with firms authorised by the UK Registered in England Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
More information is available on and Wales number 296805 ourwebsite www.
co. uk corporate  boiler-room-scams and you can check whether an enquirer is properly Details of all our operating locations are available on our website authorised and report scam approaches by contacting the FCA www.
Taylor Wimpey UK Limited Gate House, Turnpike Road Annual General Meeting High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire 11:00 am on 26 April 2018 at: HP12 3NR The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 TavistockSquare, London, WC1H 9JP.
Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 Latest date for receipt of proxy instructions for the 2018 Annual GeneralMeeting: 11:00 am on 24 April 2018.
Spain Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U.
Group Legal Director and Company Secretary C Aragon, 223-223A and Registered Office 07008 Palma fide Mallorca Mallorca James Jordan Spain Gate House Turnpike Road Tel: 34 971 706972 High Wycombe Fax: 34 971 706565 Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 E-mail: james.
com Registrar For any enquiries concerning your shareholding or details of shareholder services, please contact: Link Asset Services The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU E-mail: enquiries@linkgroup.
co. uk Tel: 0871 664 0300 UK Tel: 44 0 371 664 0300 from overseas Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open between 9:00 am and 5:30 pm Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Auditors Deloitte LLP Solicitors Slaughter and May Stockbrokers J. P. Morgan Cazenove Jefferies Hoare Govett taylorwimpey.
co. uk 160 Shareholder Information More Information Online View our Annual Report and Accounts online: KPI www.
co. uk corporate Further information about our sustainability activities and KPI policies can be found within our dedicated Sustainability Report on our website.
co. uk corporate Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 more online This document is printed on UPM Finesse Silk and UPM Fine Offset: bothpapers containing virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
This is a certified CarbonNeutral publication.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
