Financial Statements Company Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Our audit approach Report on the audit of the Overview Company financial Overall materiality: 10.2 million 2016: 10.5 million, based on statements Materiality 0.5% of net assets.
Opinion We performed full scope audit procedures over Croda Audit scope In our opinion, Croda International Plcs International Plc the Parent Company of the Group.
Company financial statements the financial statements : Carrying value of investments.
Key audit give a true and fair view of the state matters of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017: Independence misstatement due to fraud is higher than have been properly prepared in We remained independent of the Group in the risk of not detecting one resulting from accordance with United Kingdom accordance with the ethical requirements error, as fraud may involve deliberate Generally Accepted Accounting that are relevant to our audit of the financial concealment by, for example, forgery or Practice United Kingdom Accounting statements in the UK, which includes the intentional misrepresentations, or through Standards, comprising FRS 101 FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to collusion.
We designed audit procedures Reduced Disclosure Framework, and listed public interest entities, and we have that focused on the risk of non-compliance applicable law : and fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in related to financial conduct.
Our tests accordance with these requirements.
included review of legal correspondence have been prepared in accordance and discussion with managements with the requirements of the To the best of our knowledge and belief, we experts.
We did not identify any key audit Companies Act 2006. declare that non-audit services prohibited matters relating to irregularities, including by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not We have audited the financial statements, fraud.
As in all of our audits we also provided to the Group or the Company.
included within the Annual Report and addressed the risk of management Accounts the Annual Report, which Other than those disclosed in the Directors override of internal controls, including comprise: the Company balance sheet as Report, we have provided no non-audit testing journals and evaluating whether at 31 December 2017: the Company services to the Group and its subsidiaries there was evidence of bias by the Directors statement of changes in equity for the year in the period from 1 January 2017 to that represented a risk of material then ended: the accounting policies: and 31 December 2017. misstatement due to fraud.
the notes to the financial statements.
The scope of our audit Key audit matters Our opinion is consistent with our reporting As part of designing our audit, we Key audit matters are those matters that, to the Audit Committee.
determined materiality and assessed in the auditors professional judgement, the risks of material misstatement in the were of most significance in the audit of the Basis for opinion financial statements.
In particular, we financial statements of the current period We conducted our audit in accordance looked at where the Directors made and include the most significant assessed with International Standards on Auditing subjective judgements, for example in risks of material misstatement whether or UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our respect of significant accounting estimates not due to fraud identified by the auditors, responsibilities under ISAs UK are further that involved making assumptions and including those which had the greatest described in the Auditors responsibilities considering future events that are effect on: the overall audit strategy: the for the audit of the financial statements inherently uncertain.
allocation of resources in the audit: and section of our report.
We believe that the directing the efforts of the engagement We gained an understanding of the legal audit evidence we have obtained is team.
These matters, and any comments and regulatory framework applicable to the sufficient and appropriate to provide we make on the results of our procedures Company and the industry in which it a basis for our opinion.
thereon, were addressed in the context of operates, and considered the risk of acts our audit of the financial statements as a by the Company which were contrary to whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, applicable laws and regulations, including and we do not provide a separate opinion fraud.
We designed audit procedures to on these matters.
This is not a complete list respond to the risk, recognising that the of all risks identified by our audit.
risk of not detecting a material Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 127 Financial Statements | Company Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying value of investments To assess the impairment assessment performed by the Directors we have performed Refer to page 99 Accounting Policies and the following: page 134 notes.
we compared the carrying value of the investment to the net assets of the individual The investment balance of 492.5 million subsidiaries: relates to a number of subsidiary we evaluated and assessed the reasonableness of the future cash flow forecasts, companies and is required to be tested and the process by which they were prepared, including comparing them to the annually for impairment.
An impairment latest Board approved budgets, and testing the underlying calculations: charge of 3.8 million has been tested the Directors key assumptions for long-term growth rates outside the budget recognised against these balances in the period, by comparing them to, and finding them broadly in line with, forecast inflation current financial year.
The risk we focused rates: on is that the investment balances may be overstated and that a further impairment considered the discount rate by testing the inputs into the calculation, including the charge may be required.
Group WACC and the risk premium: and The large magnitude of the balance, and we performed our own sensitivities over the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts, the numerous assumptions made, add to being revenue and margin growth, and the discount rate used.
These sensitivities the judgemental nature of the balance.
confirm that there would have to be significant changes in the underlying assumptions for the investments to be impaired.
Based on the results of our testing, we have not identified any issues in relation to the carrying value of investments.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which it operates.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 10.2 million 2016: 10.5 million.
Overall materiality 0.5% of net assets.
How we determined it We believe that net assets is considered to be appropriate as it is not a profit oriented Rationale for benchmark applied company.
The Company holds the investments in subsidiaries and therefore net assets is deemed a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.8 million 2016: 0.7 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the draw attention to.
However, because Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting not all future events or conditions in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material can be predicted, this statement is uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period not a guarantee as to the Companys of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Croda International Plc 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements Reporting on other information whether the other information is materially With respect to the Strategic Report and inconsistent with the financial statements Directors Report, we also considered The other information comprises all of or our knowledge obtained in the audit, whether the disclosures required by the UK the information in the Annual Report other or otherwise appears to be materially Companies Act 2006 have been included.
than the financial statements and our misstated.
If we identify an apparent Auditors Report thereon.
The Directors are Based on the responsibilities described material inconsistency or material responsible for the other information.
above and our work undertaken in the misstatement, we are required to perform Our opinion on the financial statements course of the audit, the Companies procedures to conclude whether there does not cover the other information and, Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the is a material misstatement of the financial accordingly, we do not express an audit Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct statements or a material misstatement of opinion or, except to the extent otherwise Authority FCA require us also to report the other information.
If, based on the work explicitly stated in this report, any form of certain opinions and matters as described we have performed, we conclude that assurance thereon.
below required by ISAs UK unless there is a material misstatement of this otherwise stated.
In connection with our audit of the financial other information, we are required to report statements, our responsibility is to read the that fact.
We have nothing to report based other information and, in doing so, consider on these responsibilities.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 35 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 35 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 81, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 51 to 57 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 129 Financial Statements | Company Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Responsibilities for the financial A further description of our responsibilities Appointment statements and the audit for the audit of the financial statements Following the recommendation of the is located on the FRCs website at: Responsibilities of the Directors for Audit Committee, we were appointed by www.
the financial statements the Directors in 1970 to audit the financial This description forms part of our As explained more fully in the Statement of statements for the year ended December Auditors Report.
Directors Responsibilities set out on page 1970 and subsequent financial periods.
81, the Directors are responsible for the The period of total uninterrupted Use of this report preparation of the financial statements in engagement is 48 years, covering the This report, including the opinions, accordance with the applicable framework years ended December 1970 to has been prepared for and only for the and for being satisfied that they give December 2017.
Companys members as a body in a true and fair view.
The Directors are also accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of Other matter responsible for such internal control as the Companies Act 2006 and for no other they determine is necessary to enable the purpose.
We do not, in giving these We have reported separately on the Group preparation of financial statements that are opinions, accept or assume responsibility financial statements of Croda International free from material misstatement, whether for any other purpose or to any other Plc for the year ended 31 December 2017. due to fraud or error.
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save In preparing the financial statements, the where expressly agreed by our prior Directors are responsible for assessing the consent in writing.
Companys ability to continue as a going Ian Morrison concern, disclosing as applicable, matters Senior Statutory Auditor Other required reporting related to going concern and using the for and on behalf of going concern basis of accounting unless Companies Act 2006 exception  LLP the Directors either intend to liquidate the reporting Chartered Accountants and Statutory Company or to cease operations, or have Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Auditors no realistic alternative but to do so.
required to report to you if, in our opinion: Leeds Auditors responsibilities for the audit 27 February 2018 we have not received all the information of the financial statements and explanations we require for our Our objectives are to obtain reasonable audit: or assurance about whether the financial adequate accounting records have not statements as a whole are free from been kept by the Company, or returns material misstatement, whether due adequate for our audit have not been to fraud or error, and to issue an received from branches not visited by Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
us: or Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee certain disclosures of Directors that an audit conducted in accordance remuneration specified by law are not with ISAs UK will always detect a made: or material misstatement when it exists.
the financial statements and the part of Misstatements can arise from fraud or the Directors Remuneration Report to error and are considered material if, be audited are not in agreement with individually or in aggregate, they could the accounting records and returns.
reasonably be expected to influence We have no exceptions to report arising the economic decisions of users taken from this responsibility.
on the basis of these financial statements.
Croda International Plc 130 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
