Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements provide detailed information These consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial about the financial performance Consolidated income statement, results of the Company and of all entities controlled by the Company, financial position Consolidated balance sheet, and cash flows its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
The Company Consolidated cash flow statement of Drax Group plc the Company owns 100% of the equity of all subsidiaries.
together with all of the entities controlled by the Company collectively, the Group.
The Group acquired and gained control of Opus Energy on 10 February 2017 see note 5.1.
Opus Energy's financial results from The notes to the financial statements provide additional information this date are included in the Group's Consolidated income statement.
on the items in the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated balance sheet and Consolidated cash flow statement.
The notes The Group sold its holding in Billington Bioenergy on 31 October 2017. include explanations of the information presented.
In general, the Billington Bioenergy's financial results, until this date, are included additional information in the notes to the financial statements is within the Consolidated income statement.
required by law, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS orother regulations to facilitate increased understanding of the ACCOUNTING POLICIES primary statements set out on pages 122126.
The significant accounting policies for the measurement of an individual item in the financial statements are described in the note BASIS OF PREPARATION to the financial statements relating to the item concerned see The financial statements have been prepared in accordance contents on page 121. withIFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore the consolidated financial statements comply with Article 4 of the No changes have been made to accounting policies in the year.
EUIAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006.
A full listing of new standards, interpretations and pronouncements The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost under IFRS applicable to these financial statements is presented in basis, except for certain financial assets and liabilities principally note 8.2.
The application of these new requirements has not had a derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair material effect on the financial statements.
the anticipated impact of IFRS 9, 15 and 16 which will affect the financial statements in future periods.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
At each balance The preparation of financial statements requires judgement to be sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in applied in forming the Groups accounting policies.
It also requires foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported date.
Non-monetary items are not retranslated.
amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on such revaluations are recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates Foreign operations are revised and in any future periods affected.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations with a functional currency other than Sterling are translated into Sterling using The judgements involving a higher degree of estimation or published exchange rates at the reporting date.
The income and complexity are set out below and in more detail, including sensitivity expenditure of such operations are translated into Sterling using the analysis where appropriate, in the related notes.
exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the retranslation of the Critical accounting judgements operations net assets and its results for the year are recognised in The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
estimation which are dealt with separately below, made in the process of applying the Group's accounting policies during the year Going concern that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in The Groups business activities, along with future developments the financial statements: thatmay affect its financial performance, position and cash flows, are discussed within the Strategic report on pages 157 of this Accounting treatment applied to acquisition of LaSalle pellet AnnualReport.
production assets the Group acquired the assets at the LaSalle pellet production plant on 13 April 2017.
Having assessed the In the viability statement on page 50 the directors state that they circumstances, notably that the plant was acquired without have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to employees, input or output contracts and required significant continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the investment prior to commissioning, it was concluded that the next three years.
transaction represented an asset purchase and not the acquisition of a business.
Accordingly, the assets have been recognised as Consequently, the directors also have a reasonable expectation that additions to property, plant and equipment in the year.
the Group will continue in existence for the next 12 months and, See note 3.1 on page 138 therefore, have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
120 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Sources of estimation uncertainty Renewable Obligation Certicates ROCs ROC assets generated The following are the sources of estimation uncertainty that carry by the Group's Power Generation business and held in the Groups the most significant risk of a material effect on next year's accounts balance sheet are stated at the lower of their deemed cost at the that is, the items where actual outcomes in the next 12 months point of generation and expected realisable value.
The calculation of could vary signicantly from the estimates made in determining the this value depends upon estimates of likely future sales prices.
reported amount of an asset or liability.
See note 3.3 on page 140 Property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment is Pensions the Group records a liability in its balance sheet for its depreciated on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life.
obligation to provide benets under an approved dened benefit Useful economic lives are estimated and based on past experience, pension scheme, less the fair value of assets held by the pension future replacement cycles and other available evidence.
The actuarial valuation of the scheme assets and liabilities economic lives are reviewed annually.
We reduced the useful lives of is performed annually and depends on assumptions regarding coal-specic generation assets in our Power Generation business interest rates, inflation, future salary and pension increases, from 1 January 2017. mortality and other factors, any of which are subject to future See note 3.1 on page 138 change.
See note 6.3 on page 156 Intangible assets intangible assets acquired through the purchase of Opus Energy have been recognised at their fair value.
The fair Taxation in accounting for both current and deferred tax the Group value measurement of the existing customer contracts depends on a makes assumptions regarding the likely treatment of items of number of assumptions, and in particular requires estimates to be income and expenditure for tax purposes.
These assumptions are made about likely margins on current customer contracts, future based on interpretation of relevant legislation and, where required, contract renewal rates and future margins on renewed contracts.
The assets are amortised over their useful economic lives, which in See note 2.6 on page 134 the case of the customer-related assets, have also been assessed based on the future contract renewal rates.
The amortisation rate ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES APMs will change if the assumed renewal rates differ from actual We present two APMs measures without formal denition in IFRS experience.
on the face of our income statement, EBITDA and underlying See note 5.3 on page 150 earnings, to assist users of the accounts in evaluating the comparability of the Groups financial performance and the Impairment an impairment review is conducted annually of performance against strategic objectives.
goodwill and of other assets and cash-generating units where an indicator of possible impairment exists.
In 2017, an impairment EBITDA is dened as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, assessment has been completed for three of the Group's CGUs.
The amortisation and material one-off items that do not reflect the assessment of future cash flows that underpins such a review is underlying trading performance of the business.
Interest, tax, based on managements best estimate of future commodity prices, depreciation and amortisation are calculated in accordance supply volumes and economic conditions.
particularly sensitive to changes in the assumptions applied given the long time period covered by the assessment.
EBITDA is the primary measure used by the Board and market See note 2.4 on page 131 and note 5.2 on page 149 analysts to assess our financial performance.
Derivatives derivative financial instruments are recorded in the The purpose of EBITDA is to provide a consistent, comparable Group's balance sheet at fair value.
The assessment of fair value is measure of the trading performance of the Groups businesses derived from assuming a market price for the instrument in question.
The Group bases its assessment of market prices upon forward curves that are largely derived from readily obtainable quotations Underlying earnings is dened as profit after tax, as calculated in and third party sources.
However, any forward curve is based at least accordance with IFRS, adjusted to exclude unrealised gains and in part upon assumptions about future transactions and market losses on derivative contracts, which introduce volatility to IFRS movements.
Where such instruments extend beyond the liquid measures of net profitability, and material one-off items that do not portion of the forward curve, the level of estimation increases as the reflect the underlying performance of the business.
number of observable transactions decreases.
The purpose of underlying earnings is to provide a consistent, See note 7.2 on page 164 comparable measure of the overall financial performance of the Groups businesses year-on-year, including costs of servicing the Revenue recognition the nature of some of the Groups activities, existing debt, allocations of the cost of non-current assets and tax.
particularly within the B2B Energy Supply segment, results in revenue being based on the estimated volumes of power supplied to Judgement is applied in determining transactions which are not customers at an estimated average price per unit.
Assumptions that considered to reflect the underlying trading performance of the underpin these estimates are applied consistently and comparison business.
of past estimates to final settlements suggests a high degree of accuracy.
However, actual outcomes may vary from initial estimates.
EBITDA is reconciled to both gross profit and operating profit on theface of the income statement.
A reconciliation of underlying See note 2.2 on page 129 earnings to profit after tax attributable to shareholders is provided innote 2.7.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS SECTION 1 SECTION 5 Consolidated financial Other assets and liabilities 5.1 Acquisitions 148 statements 5.2 Goodwill 149 Consolidated income statement 122 5.3 Intangible assets 150 Consolidated statement of comprehensive 5.4 Provisions 152 income 123 Consolidated balance sheet 124 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 125 SECTION 6 Consolidated cash flow statement 126 Our people 6.1 Employees and directors 153 SECTION 2 6.2 Share-based payments 153 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations 156 Financial performance 2.1 Segmental reporting 127 2.2 Revenue 129 SECTION 7 2.3 Operating expenses and EBITDA 131 2.4 Review of xed assets for impairment 131 Risk management 2.5 Net finance costs 133 7.1 Financial risk management 161 2.6 Current and deferred taxation 134 7.2 Derivative financial instruments 164 2.7 Underlying earnings 136 7.3 Other financial instruments 166 2.8 Earnings per share and underlying 7.4 Hedge reserve 167 earnings per share 136 7.5 Contingent liabilities 168 2.9 Dividends 137 7.6 Commitments 168 2.10 Retained profits 137 SECTION 8 SECTION 3 Reference information Operating assets and working 8.1 General information 169 capital 8.2 Basis of preparation 169 8.3 Related party transactions 171 3.1 Property, plant and equipment 138 3.2 Other xed asset investments 140 3.3 ROC assets 140 DRAX GROUP PLC 3.4 Inventories 141 Company financial statements 172 3.5 Trade and other receivables 142 Notes to the Company financial statements 174 3.6 Trade and other payables 143 SECTION 4 Financing and capital structure 4.1 Reconciliation of net debt 144 4.2 Cash and cash equivalents 144 4.3 Borrowings 144 4.4 Cash generated from operations 146 4.5 Equity and reserves 147
