182 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GLOSSARY ADVANTAGED FUELS FEED-IN TARIFF Fuel that gives a price advantage against standard bituminous coals.
A long-term contract set at a xed level where variable payments are Such fuels include pond fines, off-specication coal and petcoke.
made to ensure the generator receives an agreed tariff.
The feed-in tariff payment would be made in addition to the generators ANCILLARY SERVICES revenues from selling in the market.
Services provided to national grid used for balancing supply and demand or maintaining secure electricity supplies within acceptable FORCED OUTAGE limits, for example Black Start contracts.
They are described in Any reduction in plant availability, excluding planned outages.
Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code.
FORCED OUTAGE RATE AVAILABILITY The capacity which is not available due to forced outages or Average percentage of time the units were available for generation.
restrictions expressed as a percentage of the maximum theoretical capacity, less planned outage capacity.
BALANCING MECHANISM The sub-set of the market through which the system operator can GRID CHARGES call upon additional generation consumption or reduce generation Includes transmission network use of system charges TNUoS, consumption through market participants bids and offers, in order balancing services use of system charges BSUoS and distribution to balance the system minute-by-minute.
use of system charges DUoS.
BARK SPREAD IFRSS The difference between the power price and the cost of biomass, International Financial Reporting Standards.
LECS CARBON PRICE SUPPORT MECHANISM Levy Exemption Certicates.
Evidence of CCL exempt electricity OR CARBON PRICE FLOOR OR CARBON TAX supplies generated from qualifying renewable sources.
A tax upon fossil fuels including coal used to generate electricity.
Itis charged as a levy on coal delivered to the power station.
LEVY CONTROL FRAMEWORK A control framework for BEIS formerly DECC levy-funded spending CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE CFD intended to make sure that BEIS achieves its fuel poverty, energy and A mechanism to support investment in low-carbon electricity climate change goals in a way that is consistent with economic generation.
The CfD works by stabilising revenues for generators at recovery and minimising the impact on consumer bills.
axed price level known as the strike price.
Generators will receive revenue from selling their electricity into the market as usual.
LOAD FACTOR However, when the market reference price is below the strike price Net sent out generation as a percentage of maximum sales.
they will also receive a top-up payment from suppliers for the additional amount.
Conversely if the reference price is above the LOST TIME INJURY RATE LTIR strike price, the generator must pay back the difference.
The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: lost time injuries hours worked x 100,000.
Lost time injuries are dened as DARK GREEN SPREAD occurrences where the injured party is absent from work for more The difference between the power price and the cost of coal and than 24 hours.
carbon, including CO allowances under the EU Emissions Trading 2 Scheme and the UK Carbon Price Support CPS Mechanism.
NET BALANCING MECHANISM Net volumes attributable to accepted bids and offers in the DEPARTMENT FOR BUSINESS, ENERGY AND INDUSTRIAL balancing mechanism.
STRATEGY BEIS The Government department bringing together the responsibilities NET CASH DEBT for business, industrial strategy, science, innovation, energy and Comprises cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments less climate change formerly DECC.
overdrafts and borrowings net of deferred finance costs.
EBITDA NET SALES profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and material The aggregate of net volumes attributable to bilateral contracts, one-off items that do not reflect the underlying trading performance power exchange trades and net balancing mechanism.
NET SALES AT NOTIONAL BALANCING POINT NBP EU ETS Net sales at NBP is the volume of power sold to customers by our The EU Emissions Trading System is a mechanism introduced across Retail business expressed at the NBP.
The NBP reflects the volume the EU to reduce emissions of CO : the scheme is capable of being of power sold before deduction of transmission and distribution 2 losses incurred in transporting this power from the grid to the extended to cover all greenhouse gas emissions.
GLOSSARY PLANNED OUTAGE A period during which scheduled maintenance is executed according to the plan set at the outset of the year.
PLANNED OUTAGE RATE The capacity not available due to planned outages expressed as apercentage of the maximum theoretical capacity.
POWER EXCHANGE TRADES Power sales or purchases transacted on the APX UK power trading platform.
ROCs A Renewable Obligation Certicate ROC is a certicate issued toan accredited generator for electricity generated from eligible renewable sources.
The Renewable Obligation RO is currently the main support scheme for renewable electricity projects in the UK.
SUMMER The calendar months April to September.
SYSTEM OPERATOR National Grid Electricity Transmission.
Responsible for the coordination of electricity flows onto and over the transmission system, balancing generation supply and user demand.
TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE TRIR The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: lost time injuries worse than first aid injuries hours worked x 100,000.
UK NAP UK National Allocation Plan.
UNDERLYING FINANCIAL MEASURES We report financial measures described as underlying such as profit after tax and earnings per share.
Underlying measures are adjusted to exclude losses on derivative contracts and material one-off items that do not reflect the underlying performance of thebusiness.
WINTER The calendar months October to March.
The DRAX report and accounts are printed on Revive 100 Offset a Carbon Balanced paper that has been produced from 100% post-consumer recycled bre FSC Recycled certied, and awarded the EU Eco label.
The carbon emissions associated with the papers production and distribution have been offset through the World Land Trusts Carbon Balanced Paper scheme.
COM Drax Group plc Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH T 44 0 1757 618381
