Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 169 SECTION 8 Reference information This section details reference information relevant to the accounts.
Here we describe the general information about the Group e. g. operations and registered ofce.
We also set out the basis of preparation of the accounts and general accounting policies that are not specic to any one note.
8.1 GENERAL INFORMATION Drax Group plc the Company is incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act.
The Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group have three principal activities: electricity generation: electricity supply to business customers: and manufacturing of sustainable compressed wood pellets for use in electricity production.
The Groups activities are principally based within the UK, with the wood pellet manufacturing activities situated in the US.
The address of the Companys registered ofce and principal establishment is Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire, YO8 8PH, United Kingdom.
A full list of operating companies of the Group is disclosed in note 5 to the Companys separate financial statements, which follow these consolidated financial statements.
8.2 BASIS OF PREPARATION Adoption of new and revised accounting standards A number of new and amended standards became effective for the first time in 2017.
The Group adopted the following from 1 January 2017: IAS 12 amended Income Taxes effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
IAS 7 amended Statement of Cash Flows effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
The adoption of these updates and amendments has not had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following new or amended standards and relevant interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and some of which were pending endorsement by the EU marked by : IFRS 2 Classication and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 including clarifications issued on 12 April 2016 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IAS 40 amended Investment Property effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January2018.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments effective for annual reports beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 amended Leases effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 10 amended Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 amended Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 effective date deferred indefinitely.
Adoption of the other standards in future periods is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, other than the three standards noted below.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The Group adopted IFRS 9 with effect from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 addresses the classication, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets, replacing the previous requirements of IAS 39.
The Group's current accounting for financial instruments is set out in further detail in note 7.2.
170 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 SECTION 8: REFERENCE INFORMATION 8.2 BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED The Group does not expect the new requirements to have a significant impact on the classication and measurement of its financial assets or financial liabilities.
The new hedge accounting rules will align the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with the Group's risk management practices.
The Group's existing hedge relationships will continue to qualify as hedges.
No new hedge relationships have been designated as at 1 January 2018: however, we anticipate opportunities to designate additional contracts into hedge relationships in future, potentially reducing income statement volatility from fair value movements on such contracts.
"IFRS 9 allows a policy choice to designate the fair value movements relating to forward basis points and the time value of money of options as a ""cost of hedging"" and recognise these movements as a component of other comprehensive income OCI."
The Group intends to adopt this policy.
Currently these values are recognised in the unrealised gains losses on derivative contracts line in the income statement.
Had this policy been in place during the year ended 31 December 2017, the impact would have been to reduce the loss before tax by approximately 32 million and the loss after tax by approximately 26 million, with an identical post-tax expense recognised in other comprehensive income.
There is no impact on the balance sheet valuation of derivative contracts.
As unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts are currently recognised in the income statement below EBITDA and are excluded from underlying earnings see note 2.7, the changes described above will have no impact on EBITDA or underlying earnings.
The new impairment model requires the measurement of impairment provisions to be based on expected credit losses, rather than incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39.
We expect this to impact the Group's calculation of impairment provisions in respect of trade receivable balances.
We estimate that such impairment provisions will increase modestly as a result less than 1 million with a one-off corresponding reduction in EBITDA and underlying earnings in 2018.
The new standard also introduces additional disclosure requirements in respect of financial instruments.
We anticipate an increase in the level of financial instrument disclosure, particularly in the year ended 31 December 2018 following the adoption of the new standard.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Customer Contracts The Group has completed an impact assessment for the adoption of IFRS 15.
The standard has been adopted from 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 introduces a five-step model for determining the recognition and measurement of revenue, which is more in-depth and provides additional guidance compared to the previous revenue standard.
The Group's main sources of revenue and existing revenue recognition policies are described in more detail in note 2.2.
Having assessed the Group's material contracts against the new model, a significant change to the quantum and timing of the recognition of revenue and profits is considered unlikely.
The review has included the sources of revenue referred to in note 2.2.
IFRS 15 introduces a number of areas of judgement into the revenue recognition process.
In determining that no significant change is anticipated, the most critical areas of judgement relate to the B2B Energy Supply businesses.
Our assessment has considered the identication of performance obligations within the customer contracts, the assessment of when each performance obligation is satisfied and the treatment of variable consideration.
In all three of these areas, the current policies have been assessed and we have concluded that they are in line with the new requirements.
In the Group's other businesses, the significant contracts are not complex, being characterised by a single performance obligation that is satisfied at a point in time with a xed consideration.
Therefore, we have concluded that there will be no impact on transition to IFRS 15.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 introduces a new model for accounting for leases.
The principal change compared to the current standard is to bring leases previously classied as operating leases onto the balance sheet, subject to exemptions and exceptions for short-term and low-value leases.
This will result in an increase in assets, lease liabilities, depreciation and finance charges, and a reduction in operating expenditure, when compared to previous periods.
At 31 December 2017, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 43.5 million see note 7.6.
The Group intends to undertake a comprehensive review, prior to the effective date, to quantify the above effects.
This review will also consider whether certain contracts currently not classied as leases meet the denition of a lease under IFRS 16.
The Group intends to adopt IFRS 16 in the first period it becomes mandatory, which commences on 1 January 2019.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2017 171 8.3 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS A related party is either an individual or entity with control or significant influence over the Group, or a company that is linked to us by investment such as an associated company or joint venture.
Our primary related parties are our key management personnel.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors and Executive Committee members, who are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors, together with the directors interests in the share capital of Drax Group plc, is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Committee report.
Years ended 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Salaries and short-term benets 4,900 5,011 Aggregate amounts receivable under share-based incentive schemes 1,221 1,146 Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 34 44 6,155 6,201 Amounts included in the table above reflect the remuneration of the 12 2016: 10 members of the Board and Executive Committee as described on pages 81107, including those who have resigned during the year.
Amounts receivable under incentive schemes represents the expenses arising from share-based payments included in the consolidated income statement, determined based on the fair value of the related awards at the date of grant note 6.2, as adjusted for non-marketrelated vesting conditions.
There were no other transactions with directors for the periods covered by these consolidated financial statements.
