STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF MEETING THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your ordinary shares in Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC, please forward this document and the accompanying form of proxy as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was or is being effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 92nd Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00am on Monday 26 March 2018 at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1.
To approve the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 together with the reports of the directors and auditor thereon.
To approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2017.
To declare a final dividend of 17.48p p er ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr A T Copple as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr R W Jewson as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mrs J F fide Moller as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr N S L Lyons as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Dr L R Sherratt as a director of the Company.
To elect Mr R E J Wyatt as a director of the Company.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the auditor to the Company and to authorise the audit committee to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTION: 12.
That in substitution of all existing authorities the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of 1,671,819, being 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 20 February 2018 and representing 6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company or if changed the number representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date at which this resolution is passed, provided that: i the authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2019 or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but may be revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting: and ii t he said authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 51 247986 TBR AR 34pp-end.
That, in substitution of all existing powers but, subject to the passing of resolution 12 set out above, the directors be and they are hereby generally empowered pursuant to Section 570-573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities as fide ned in Section 560 of that Act for cash, including for the avoidance of doubt, the sale of shares held by the Company as treasury shares, in accordance with the authority conferred on them by this meeting to allot shares as if Section 561 i of that Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that the power conferred by this resolution shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or the pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on the record date of such allotment but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with equity securities in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the law of or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or any other matter whatsoever : and ii t he allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 1,671,819, being 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 20 February 2018 and representing 6,687,276 shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Shares or, if changed, the number representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date at which this resolution is passed, and provided further that i the number of equity securities to which this power applies shall be reduced from time to time by the number of treasury shares which are sold pursuant to any power conferred on the directors by resolution 12 set out above and ii no allotment of equity securities shall be made under this power which would result in Shares being issued at a price which is less than the higher of the Companys estimated cum or ex income net asset value per Share as at the latest practicable time before such allotment of equity securities as determined by the directors in their reasonable discretion: and such power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or 15 months from the date of passing this resolution, whichever is earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting and save that the Company may make an offer or agreement before this power has expired, which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Company generally be and is hereby authorised for the purpose of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make one or more market purchases as fide ned in Section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares either for retention as treasury shares for future reissue, resale, transfer or cancellation provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii t he minimum price exclusive of expenses payable by the Company which may be paid for such ordinary shares is 25p per share: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable by the Company which may be paid for such ordinary shares shall be 5% above the average of the market value of the share quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Of cial List for the five business days immediately before the purchase is made: iv the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019, or, if earlier, the date falling fifteen months from the date of this resolution: v the Company may make a contract to purchase its own ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board of Directors M K Slade Woolgate Exchange For Investec Asset Management Limited 25 Basinghall Street Secretary London EC2V 5HA 20 February 2018 TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 52 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 34pp-end.
indd 52 22 02 2018 13:59 22 02 2018 13:59 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHOWN IS A PLAN OF THE LOCATION OF INVESTEC ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED, 2 GRESHAM STREET, LONDON EC2V 7QP WHERE THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING WILL BE HELD ON MONDAY 26 MARCH 2018 AT 11.00AM.
Entitlement to attend and vote Members who hold ordinary shares in the Company in uncerti cated form must have been entered on the Companys register of members by 6.30pm on 22 March 2018 in order to be able to attend and vote at the meeting, or if the meeting is adjourned, 6.30pm on the day two business days before the time xed for the adjourned meeting.
Such members may only vote at the meeting in respect of ordinary shares held at the time.
Proxies A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend the meeting to speak and vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member wishing to appoint more than one proxy must appoint each proxy in respect of a speci ed number of shares within his holding.
For this purpose, a member may photocopy the enclosed Form of Proxy before completion and must indicate the number of shares in respect of which each proxy is appointed.
Instruments of proxy should be sent to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA so as to arrive no later than 11.00am on 22 M arch 2018.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending and voting at the meeting in person should they wish to do so.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers printed at the top right-hand side of the Form of Proxy.
Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at www.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
To be valid, your proxy appointment s and instructions should reach Equiniti Limited no later than 11.00am on 22 March 2018.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears speci cations and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The CREST message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by not later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the CREST message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the CREST message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 53 247986 TBR AR 34pp-end.
Proxies continued After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member s is are a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that the CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a CREST message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s is are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001.
Corporate representatives A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise a person or persons to act as its representative s at the AGM.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
Nominated persons In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 2006, the right to appoint proxies does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Act.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under Section 146 of the Act who have been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are hereby informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the Act, that they may have a right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
Members requests under Section 527 of the 2006 Act Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting for the financial year beginning 1 January 2017 : or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year 1 January 2017 ceasing to hold of ce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 requirements as to website availability of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting for the relevant financial year includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Members rights to ask questions Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of con dential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Inspection of documents None of the directors has a service contract with the Company.
Total number of shares and voting rights As at 20 February 2018, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 66,872,765 ordinary shares in issue with a total of 66,872,765 voting rights.
Website In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website: www.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 54 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 34pp-end.
