Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 119 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Corporate Governance Report Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for The Directors consider that the Annual preparing the Annual Report and the Report and Financial Statements, Financial Statements in accordance taken as a whole, are fair, balanced with applicable law and regulations.
and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders Company law requires the Directors to assess the Groups performance, to prepare financial statements for business model and strategy.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group Each of the Directors, as at the date financial statements in accordance of this report, confirms to the best with International Financial Reporting of their knowledge that: Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the Company The financial statements, prepared financial statements in accordance in accordance with the applicable with UK Accounting Standards and set of accounting standards, give applicable law.
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit In preparing those financial statements, of the Group.
the Directors are required to: The Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review of the Select suitable accounting policies development and performance of and then apply them consistently.
the business and the position of the Make judgements and estimates Group, together with a description that are reasonable and prudent.
of the principal risks and uncertainties State that the Group financial that it faces.
statements have complied with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, On behalf of the Board of Directors subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
State for the Company financial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any Charles Berry material departures being Chairman disclosed and explained.
28 February 2018 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial Jon Stanton statements comply with the 2006 Act Chief Executive Officer and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They 28 February 2018 are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
