The Weir Group PLC 210 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Shareholder Information Company Secretary & Shareholder communications Managing your shareholding Registered Office Online Communications online with Investor Centre Mr Christopher Morgan Shareholders are encouraged to visit Investor Centre is a free, secure online The Weir Group PLC the Companys corporate website service run by Computershare, giving you 1 West Regent Street www.
weir, which contains a convenient access to information on your Glasgow wealth of information about the Weir shareholdings.
The website includes information online and take advantage of all these about the markets in which we operate, features and more: Registered in Scotland.
our strategy and business performance, Company No.
recent news from the Group and product View share balances and market information.
The investor section is a key values for all of your  source of information for shareholders, managed holdings Computershare Investor Services PLC containing details on the share price, our Update dividend mandate bank The Pavilions financial results, shareholder meetings instructions and view dividend Bridgwater Road and dividends, as well as a Shareholders payment history Bristol, BS99 6ZZ FAQ section.
Register to receive company communications online Website: www.
co. uk E-Communications Cast your Proxy Vote online for We are encouraging our shareholders forthcoming General Meetings Telephone: 0370 707 1402 to receive their information by email and Update personal details, such as via our website.
Not only is this quick, it your address Shareholder enquiries relating to helps to reduce paper, printing and costs.
shareholding, dividend payments, Registration is quick and easy.
Just change of name or address, lost To register for e-communications, log on visit www.
co. uk with share certificates or dividend cheques, to www.
co. uk ecomms your Shareholder Reference Number transfer of shares etc.
Follow us After registering, you may be sent an activation code in the post, used to validate your account.
Once activated, you will have full access to Investor Centre services.
Annual and Interim Reports Our Annual Report is available online.
You can view or download the full Annual Report and Interim Report from our website at www.
Current and past Annual and Interim Reports are also available to view and download.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 211 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Ordinary shareholder analysis at 31 December 2017 By country 1 2 1 UK shareholders 93.87% 2 Overseas shareholders 6.13% By holding size No.
Further details are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2018 which is available to download from our website at www.
weir  agm Voting Information on how you can vote electronically on the resolutions which will be put forward at our 2018 AGM can be obtained through our Registrar by visiting www.
You will need details of the Control Number, your SRN and PIN which can be found on the Form of Proxy or email, if you have asked to be sent email communications.
The Weir Group PLC 212 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Shareholder Information continued Dividends 2017 final dividend The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 29.0 pence per share, for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Payment of this dividend is subject to approval at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Key dates relating to this dividend are given below.
Annual General Meeting 26 April 2018 Ex-dividend date 26 April 2018 Record date 27 April 2018 Final day for receipt of Scrip elections 23 May 2018 Payment date 4 June 2018 Dividend history pence per share 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Interim 8.8 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0 Final 33.2 29.0 29.0 29.0 29.0 Total 42.0 44.0 44.0 44.0 44.0 IMPORTANT Future Payment of Dividends Mandatory Direct Credit From 2019, the Company is simplifying the way in which it pays dividends to shareholders by only paying cash dividends directly into a shareholders nominated bank account.
This is known as Mandatory Direct Credit.
The Company will no longer be issuing dividend cheques.
Shareholders recorded on the register of members as receiving dividend payments by cheque will be contacted by Computershare.
Those shareholders will need to take the required action by selecting the appropriate option as set out in the Computershare notification.
Shareholders on the register of members who already have their dividends paid by any of the options set out below are not required to take any action unless they choose to withdraw from the Companys Scrip Dividend Scheme SCRIP.
Direct payment to your bank The best way to ensure that dividends are received as quickly as possible is to have your dividends paid directly to a UK bank or building society account.
This is more convenient and helps reduce the risk of cheques becoming lost or delayed in the post.
To switch to this method of payment you can register online or download a Dividend Mandate Form by selecting Downloadable Forms at www.
The form can also be accessed via the FAQ section on the Companys website at www.
Alternatively, you can contact Computershare, who will also be able to assist with any questions you may have.
An Annual Dividend Confirmation detailing all payments made throughout the tax year will then be sent to you once a year either electronically or to your registered address.
In 2018, the Dividend Confirmation will be dispatched with the November 2018 dividend payment and contain the payment information for dividends paid during the 2018 2019 tax year.
Global Payment Service If you live overseas, Computershare offers a Global Payment Service which is available in certain countries.
This may make it possible to receive dividends direct into your bank account in your local currency.
Please note that the fees applied for this service will be automatically deducted from the proceeds before it is paid to you.
For further details go to www.
co. uk then select the information tab followed by FAQs then select the Dividends and Payments tab and the Global Payment Service tab.
Scrip dividend scheme Shareholders may elect to participate in the Companys Scrip Dividend Scheme SCRIP.
The SCRIP provides shareholders with the option to receive new fully paid ordinary shares in place of their cash dividend.
Shareholders who participate in the SCRIP will be able to increase their shareholding in a simple, cost effective way without incurring dealing costs or stamp duty.
All UK shareholders, including CREST members, can join the SCRIP, although certain restrictions apply to overseas shareholders.
Holders of the Companys American Depository Receipts ADRs are not eligible to join the SCRIP.
The price for the SCRIP dividend will be announced on 3 May 2018.
The final date for receipt of SCRIP elections will be 23 May 2018.
The 2017 final dividend will be paid on 4 June 2018.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 213 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 American Depositary Receipt share on the basis of one new ordinary This is not a recommendation to buy, sell ADR programme share for every five ordinary shares held or hold shares in The Weir Group PLC.
The Company has a sponsored level 1 and in September 1994 at 252p per share Shareholders who are unsure of what ADR programme in the United States.
on the basis of one new ordinary share action to take should obtain independent Each ADR represents 2 ordinary shares for every four ordinary shares held.
Share values may go of 12.5 pence each, in the Company.
down as well as up which may result in The Companys ADR programme is Share dealing services a shareholder receiving less than he she administered by Citibank, who were Shareholders have the opportunity to originally invested.
appointed in February 2016. buy or sell The Weir Group PLC shares using a share dealing facility operated Shareholder warning alert ADR investor contact by our Registrar, Computershare.
You will Unsolicited investment advice Telephone: 1 781 575 4555 need to register for this service prior to and fraud Citibank representatives are available using it.
To access this service, go to Many companies have become aware from 8:30am to 6:00pm US Eastern www.
that their shareholders have received Standard Time EST Monday to Friday.
unsolicited phone calls or correspondence Email:citibank@shareholders-online.
com Internet share dealing commission is concerning investment matters.
Share 1% of the value of each sale or purchase scams are often run from boiler rooms In writing of shares, subject to a minimum charge where fraudsters cold-call investors Citibank Shareholder Services of 30.
In addition, stamp duty, currently offering them worthless, overpriced or P. O.
Box 43077 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
Providence, is no need to open a trading account Rhode Island 029403077 in order to deal.
Real time dealing is These callers can be very persistent and available during market hours 08:00 to extremely persuasive and their activities ADR broker contact 16:30 Monday to Friday excluding bank have resulted in considerable losses Telephone: 1 212 723 5435 holidays.
In addition, there is a convenient for some investors.
Whilst usually by 44 207 500 2030 facility to place your order outside of telephone, the high-pressure sales tactics E-mail: citiadr@citi.
Up to 90 day limit orders can also come by email, post, word of are available for sales.
To access the mouth or at a seminar.
Shareholders are Dividend tax allowance service, go to www.
advised to be very wary of any unsolicited Dividend tax credits were replaced in Shareholders should have their SRN advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, April 2016 by an annual 5,000 tax free available.
The SRN appears on share sell your shares at a premium or offers of allowance on dividend income across certificates and dividend documentation.
an individuals entire share portfolio.
Please note that, at present, this Above this amount, individuals will pay service is only available to shareholders If you receive any unsolicited tax on their dividend income at a rate in certain jurisdictions.
Please refer to investment advice: dependent on their income tax bracket the Computershare website for an and personal circumstances.
We will up-to-date list of these countries.
Make sure you get the correct name continue to provide registered shareholders of the person and organisation and with confirmation of the dividends paid Telephone share dealing commission take a note of any other details they and this should be included with any is 1% of the value of each sale or purchase provide, such as a telephone number other dividend income received when of shares, plus 35.
In addition, stamp or address.
calculating and reporting total dividend duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on Check that the caller is properly income received.
You can contact Computershare authorised by the Financial responsibility to include all dividend on 0370 703 0084.
Shareholders should Conduct Authority FCA by income when calculating any tax liability.
have their SRN ready when making the visiting www.
The SRN appears on share certificates Report any approach from such This provision is enshrined in the Finance and dividend documentation.
Detailed organisations to the FCA using Act 2016.
If you have any tax queries, terms and conditions are available at the share fraud reporting form at please contact a financial advisor.
co. uk or by contacting www.
Please note this service , where you United Kingdom capital gains tax is, at present, only available to shareholders can also find out about the latest For the purpose of capital gains tax, the resident in certain jurisdictions.
You can also market value of an ordinary share of The to the Computershare website for an call the Consumer Helpline on Weir Group PLC as at 31 March 1982 up-to-date list of these countries.
This market value has been If calls persist, hang up.
adjusted to take account of the subThese services are offered on an division of the share capital whereby each execution only basis and subject to Please note that if you deal with an ordinary share of 25p was sub-divided the applicable terms and conditions.
unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each on Computershare Investor Services PLC to receive payment under the Financial 28 June 1993.
Rights issues of ordinary is authorised and regulated by the Services Compensation Scheme.
shares took place in April 1987 at 157p Financial Conduct Authority.
per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every seven ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per
