Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Other shareholder information FINANCIAL DIARY SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS Trading statement 27 April 2018 Company Website Ex-dividend date 5 April 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual and Interim Reports, results announcements and presentations are available on the Investor Record date 6 April 2018 Relations section of our website at www.
co. uk Annual General Meeting 27 April 2018 The website also carries a range of information about the Group and its principal brands, products and services which can be Payment of final dividend 11 May 2018 accessed via the Our Businesses section.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM Annual Report The AGM will be held on 27 April 2018 at 12.30pm at The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 is published Northampton Rugby Football Club, on our website at http: www.
co. uk investorFranklins Gardens, relations and a hard copy has been posted to shareholders who Weedon Road, have requested it in paper copy format.
have been notified of its availability on the website, either in writing NN5 5BG.
The notice for the meeting is enclosed with this report.
A paper copy is available by writing to the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office Lodge Way House, Lodge Way, REGISTRARS Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG or you can email your For Information about shareholdings, dividends and to report request to cosec@travisperkins.
co. uk changes to your address, bank details or any other account Electronic Shareholder Communications information please contact the Companys registrars: The Company prefers that you receive your shareholder Link Asset Services communications electronically.
This is a much faster, The Registry,  and cost effective way to communicate 34 Beckenham Road, with you.
If you have received a hard copy of this report, or Beckenham, notification of its availability by post and would like to receive fully Kent.
electronic communication, please register your preference on the BR3 4TU shareholder portal at www.
co. uk Telephone: 44 0 371 664 0300 You can view and manage your shareholder account online via the shareholder portal at www.
com You will need to register to use this service and to do so you will require your unique investor code IVC, which can be found on your share certificate or dividend confirmation.
Dividends It is more secure to have your dividends paid directly into your bank account than by cheque.
If you do not already have your dividends paid directly into your account and would like to do so, you can do this on the shareholder portal or you can contact Link and they will send you the relevant form to complete.
Calls will be charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls from outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate: lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
166 Shareholder Information Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Shareholder Information SHAREHOLDER SERVICES SHARE FRAUD WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS The Companys registrars, Link, provide a number of other In recent years, share fraud has been increasing, with services that, as a shareholder, might be useful to you: shareholders receiving unsolicited correspondence concerning investment matters.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure Duplicate Share Register Accounts tactics to lure investors into scams, offering to sell shares that If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at be that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
Sometimes our register of members.
If that is not your intention you may these individuals imply that they represent Travis Perkins, but wish to consider merging the accounts into one single entry.
in fact they have no connection with the Company and have no Pleasecontact Link who will be pleased to help you.
authority to claim or imply that they are.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP If you think you have been approached by fraudsters, please tell the Financial Conduct Authority using the share fraud reporting This is a scheme which allows you to use your dividends to buy form at www.
uk scams where you can also find out more shares in Travis Perkins.
For any shareholders who wish to about investment scams.
re-invest dividend payments in the Company, a facility is provided by Link Market Services Trustees Limited in conjunction with the Companys Registrar.
Full details are available by calling from Link on 44 0 371 664 0381 Alternatively, you can sign up for this service on the shareholder portal at www.
com by clicking on Manage your account followed by Dividend payments and following the on screen instructions.
SHARE DEALING SERVICES Share dealing services are available from the Companys Registrar.
For on-line dealing - log on to www.
com For telephone dealing - call 44 0 371 664 0445 Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate: lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday - Friday.
These services are only available to private shareholders resident in the EEA, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man.
Further details including costs are available at www.
com Calls will be charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
167 Above: Colleagues Travis Perkins, Salthouse Road George Brown Keyline, Telford Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The paper and board used in the production of this Travis Perkins plc, publication are all FSC accredited.
Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, The printing process used in the production of this publication was carbon neutral and used vegetable Northampton.
01604 752424 Designed by Design Print & Digital part of Travis Perkins plc www.
