JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting Resolution 10 AGM of James Fisher and Sons plc will be held at the Abbey To re-elect Mr M J L Salter as a Director of the Company.
House Hotel, Abbey Road, Barrow-in-Furness, LA13 0PA on Thursday 3 May 2018 at 11.00am to consider and, if Resolution 11 thought fit, to pass Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 16 to 19 as special resolutions.
To elect Mr J R Atkinson as a Director of the Company.
Ordinary Resolutions Resolution 12 To elect Mr F H S Graham as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Accounts and the reports of the Resolution 13 Directors and the auditor thereon for the year ended To re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company to hold 31 December 2017. office until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
Resolution 2 Resolution 14 To approve the remuneration policy contained in the Annual To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the auditors report on remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2017 remuneration.
as set out on pages 42 to 45 inclusive in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Resolution 15 Resolution 3 That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section To approve the Annual statement by the chairman of 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the the Remuneration Committee and the Annual report on powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and remuneration other than the part containing the remuneration to grant rights to subscribe for, and convert any security into, policy for the year ended 31 December 2017 as set out on shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate nominal pages 40 and 41 and on pages 45 to 53 inclusive in the amount of 4,183,378 provided that this authority shall expire Annual Report and Accounts.
on the date of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, on 30 June 2019, save that the Company shall be entitled to Resolution 4 make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights 2017 of 19.30p per ordinary share.
to be granted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot shares and grant Rights pursuant to any Resolution 5 such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and, that all authorities previously granted to the Directors to To re-elect Mr N P Henry as a Director of the Company.
allot shares and grant Rights that remain unexercised at the commencement of this meeting be and are hereby revoked.
Resolution 6 To re-elect Mr S C Kilpatrick as a Director of the Company.
Special Resolutions Resolution 7 Resolution 16 To re-elect Mr M S Paul as a Director of the Company.
That subject to the passing of Resolution 15, the Directors be and are hereby given power to allot equity securities as Resolution 8 defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act of the Company for cash pursuant to the authority conferred To re-elect Ms A I Comiskey as a Director of the Company.
by Resolution 15 and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 1 of Resolution 9 To re-elect Mr D G Moorhouse as a Director of the Company.
111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED the Act did not apply to such allotment or sale provided that or might require equity securities to be allotted after such this power shall be limited to: expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an power conferred hereby had not expired.
offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date as the Resolution 18 Directors may determine and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity securities respectively The Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies and other persons are proportionate as nearly as may be Act 2006 the Act to make one or more market purchases practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act on the held or deemed to be held by them on any such record London Stock Exchange of up to a maximum aggregate date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as of 2,510,027 ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal the Company at a price per share exclusive of expenses with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or of not less than 25p and not more than an amount equal to practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas the higher of a 105% of the average of the middle market territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or quotations for such ordinary share as derived from the London stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented Stock Exchange Official List, for the five business days by depositary receipts or any other matter: and immediately preceding the day of purchase and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph of an ordinary share and the highest current independent a above to any person or persons of equity securities up bid for an ordinary share on the trading venue where the to an aggregate nominal amount of 627,507, purchase is carried out: unless previously renewed, revoked and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority or varied, such authority will expire at the close of the next conferred by Resolution 15 above, save that the Company AGM of the Company, or, if earlier, on 30 June 2019 save that shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the the Company may purchase ordinary shares at any later date expiry of such power which would or might require equity where such purchase is pursuant to any contract or contracts securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors made by the Company before the expiry of this authority.
shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such Resolution 19 offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That any general meeting other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Resolution 17 By order of the Board That subject to the passing of Resolution 15, the Directors Jim Marsh be and are hereby given power in addition to any authority Company Secretary granted under Resolution 16 to allot equity securities as 26 February 2018 defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act for cash under the authority given by Resolution 15 and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares Registered office: for cash as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA14 1HR allotment or sale, such authority to be: Registered in England number: 211475 a limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 627,507: and Notes b used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, 1.
Any member who has not elected to receive a printed if the authority is to be used within six months after the copy of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2017 may original transaction a transaction which the Directors obtain copies by writing to the Company Secretary, Fisher of the Company determine to be an acquisition or House, PO Box 4, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA14 other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the 1HR.
Members who wish to receive the printed Annual Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights Report and Accounts, free of charge, in future years most recently published by the Pre-Emption Group prior should write to the Companys Registrars, FREEPOST to the date of this Notice, and shall expire upon the expiry SAS 34 Beckenham Road, BR3 9ZA.
Please note that of the general authority conferred by Resolution 15 above, delivery using this service can take up to 5 business days.
save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would 112 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2.
Any member entitled to vote at the above meeting may contact the registered member by whom they were appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote nominated in respect of these arrangements.
on a show of hands or on a poll, instead of him.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies need not be a member of the Company but must attend by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment the meeting in order to represent a member.
If you service may do so by utilising the procedures described wish your proxy to speak on your behalf, you will need in the CREST Manual available via www.
to appoint someone other than the Chairman or other CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored Director as your proxy.
A proxy could be the Chairman, members, and those CREST members who have another Director of the Company or if you wish the proxy appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to to speak on your behalf another person who has agreed their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who to attend and represent a member.
Details of how to will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
appoint the Chairman or another person as a proxy using In order for a proxy appointment made by means of the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held EUI specifications and must contain the information by him.
Completion of the proxy form will not preclude required for such instructions, as described in the CREST a member from attending and voting in person, in which Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes case that members proxy appointment will automatically the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the be terminated.
Proxy forms, duly executed including instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in any authority under which it is executed or a copy of order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the authority certified notarially, should be returned to the issuers agent ID number RA10 by the latest time s Link Asset Services, 34 Beckenham Road, BR3 4TU.
for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice of Alternatively you may submit your proxy form online by Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken accessing the shareholder portal at to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied www.
com, logging in and selecting the to the message by the CREST Applications Host from proxy voting link.
If you have not previously registered which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message for electronic communications, you will first be asked by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
to register as a new user, for which you will require your The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy investor code which can be found on your proxy card, Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 share certificate or dividend tax voucher, family name a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. and postcode if resident in the UK.
A member of the Company which is a corporation proxy instruction must be received no later than 11.00am may authorise a person or persons to act as its on 1 May 2018.
If you are a CREST member, see note representative s at the AGM.
In accordance with the 4 below.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such also applies in relation to amended instructions, and any representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation attempt to amend a proxy appointment after the relevant the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid were an individual member of the Company, provided proxy appointments are received in respect of the same that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other have to produce evidence of their proper appointment or others.
when attending the general meeting.
The right to appoint a proxy cannot be exercised by Registrar if you need any further guidance on this.
persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy 6.
Copies of the Directors service contracts, the letters of information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, together 2006 Nominated Person : they can only be exercised by with a copy of the Companys Articles of Association will the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a be available for inspection at the Companys registered right under an agreement between him and the member office during normal business hours on any weekday by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy Saturdays, Sundays and English public holidays excepted for the meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If until the close of the AGM and are available for inspection a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does at the place of the AGM from 10.30am on the date of the not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such meeting until the close of the meeting.
an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 7.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the 12.
As soon as practicable following the AGM, the results of Companies Act 2006 the Act can require the Company the voting at the meeting and the number of votes cast for to publish a statement on its website setting out i any and against and the number of votes withheld in respect matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts of each resolution will be announced via a Regulatory including the auditors report and the conduct of the Information Service and also placed on the Companys audit that are to be laid before the meeting, or ii any website at www.
circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which Annual Accounts and Reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act, that the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditor no later than the time it is made available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
The Company must cause to be answered any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting which is put by a member attending the meeting, except where: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
A member may not use any electronic address provided by the Company in this document or any related documents including the proxy form for communication with the Company for any purpose other than as expressly stated in it.
Only persons entered on the register of members of the Company at close of business on 1 May 2018 or, if the meeting is adjourned, at close of business on the date which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
As at 26 February 2018 being the latest practical date before the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 50,200,541 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each, and 100,000 preference shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 50,300,541.
There are no shares in treasury.
114 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 meeting approves Resolution 4, the final dividend will be paid Explanatory Notes on 11 May 2018 to ordinary shareholders who are on the register at the close of business on 6 April 2018.
Resolution 1 Annual Report The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors of a public Resolutions 5 to 12 Re-election and election company to lay its Annual Report before the Company in of Directors general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask The Companys Articles of Association require that one third of questions on the contents.
The Annual Report comprises the Directors will retire each year and that each Director must the accounts, the auditors report, the Directors report, the stand for re-election at least every three years.
Charles Rice is Directors remuneration report and the Strategic report.
The standing down from the Board at the AGM and therefore will Company proposes, as an ordinary resolution, a resolution not be seeking re-election.
Subject to his re-election, Malcolm on its Annual Report in accordance with the UK Corporate Paul will replace Charles Rice as Chairman from the end of the Governance Code Code.
Justin Atkinson who joined the Company on 1 February 2018 as a Non-Executive Director will be proposed for election Resolution 2 Approval of the Directors for the first time at this years AGM, as will Fergus Graham who remuneration policy joined the Board on 1 March 2018 as an Executive Director.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company With respect to the other Directors, in accordance with the proposes an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors provision of the Code they will all retire from office and offer remuneration policy contained in the Annual report on themselves for re-election at the AGM.
The proposed policy is set out on pages 42 to Following performance reviews the Chairman and the Board 45 of the Annual Report.
The vote on Resolution 2 is a binding believe that each of the Directors standing for re-election vote and, if passed, will mean that the Company can only continue to perform effectively and with commitment to their make remuneration payments to a current or future director or role including commitment of time for Board and Committee a payment for loss of office to a past director if that payment is meetings and other duties.
In addition the Board believes made in accordance with the approved policy.
The Company that Justin Atkinson should be elected because he will bring is required to ensure that a vote on its remuneration policy experience of successfully managing a group on a similar takes place at least every three years, or earlier if any changes growth path to the Group.
The Board also considers that each to the policy are proposed.
As the Directors remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is independent in character policy was last approved at the 2015 AGM, it is required to be and judgement.
Each of Resolutions 5 to 12 shall be proposed approved at this years AGM.
Biographical details of each of our Directors appear on pages 26 and 27 of the Annual Report.
Resolution 3 Approval of the Annual statement by the chairman of the Resolutions 13 and 14 Re-appointment of Remuneration Committee and the Annual auditor auditors remuneration report on remuneration The Company is required to appoint an auditor at each The Company proposes an ordinary resolution to approve general meeting at which accounts are laid before the the Annual statement by the chairman of the Remuneration Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next such Committee and the Annual report on remuneration for the meeting.
These resolutions propose the re-appointment of financial year ended 31 December 2017 other than the KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor to hold office from the Directors remuneration policy covered by Resolution 2.
The conclusion of the AGM until the conclusion of the next general Annual statement and the Annual report on remuneration meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, are set out on pages 40 and 41 and on pages 45 to 53 of and authorises the Audit Committee to agree the auditors the Annual Report.
The vote on this Resolution 3 is advisory remuneration.
only and the Directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on its being passed.
The Companys auditor, Resolution 15 Authority to allot shares KPMG LLP, has audited those parts of the Directors remuneration report that are required to be audited.
Authority is given to the Directors to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, and convert Resolution 4 Declaration of final dividend any security into shares in the Company up to a total nominal amount of 4,183,378 representing approximately 33% of the A final dividend can only be paid after it has been approved nominal value of the Companys total issued ordinary share by the shareholders in general meeting and may not exceed capital as at 26 February 2018, being the latest practical date the amount recommended by the Board.
The Directors before publication of this Notice.
The authority will expire at recommend a final dividend of 19.30p per ordinary share in the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2019, or, if earlier, on respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
If the 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 30 June 2019 and replaces an authority granted on 4 May The Directors have no current intention of exercising this 2017 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
If this authority is used, the Company will publish details of the placing in its next Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority.
At 26 February 2018, the Company does not hold The authorities under Resolutions 16 and 17 will lapse at any treasury shares.
the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2019 or on 30 June 2019, whichever is earlier.
The maximum nominal Resolutions 16 and 17 Permission to allot value of equity securities which could be allotted if both a limited number of shares other than to authorities were used would be 1,255,014, which represents existing shareholders approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 26 February 2018.
Resolution 16, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to renew the authority conferred on the Directors at Resolution 18 Authority to purchase own last years AGM to issue equity securities of the Company shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Other than in This special resolution, gives the Company authority to connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer purchase in the market up to 2,510,027 of its ordinary where difficulties arise in offering shares to certain overseas shares of 25p each representing approximately 5% of the shareholders and in relation to fractional entitlements the Companys total issued ordinary share capital.
The minimum authority contained in this resolution will be limited to an and maximum prices at which such shares can be purchased aggregate nominal value of 627,507 which includes the sale is as stated in the Resolution.
The authority will expire at the on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares the Company holds conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2019, or on 30 June in treasury for cash, and which represents approximately 2019, whichever is earlier, and replaces a similar authority 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at granted on 4 May 2017 which expires at the conclusion of the 26 February 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to forthcoming AGM.
the publication of this Notice.
If any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority are In line with best practice, the Company has not issued not held by the Company as treasury shares then such shares more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non prewould be immediately cancelled in which event the number of emptive basis over the last three years and the Directors ordinary shares in issue would be reduced.
As at 26 February confirm their intention to follow the best practice set out 2018, being the latest practical date before publication of this in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles which Notice, there were options over ordinary shares in the capital provides that companies should not issue shares for cash of the Company representing 1.88% of the Companys total on a non pre-emptive basis representing more than 7.5% issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase the of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling threeCompanys ordinary shares was exercised in full and those year period other than in connection with an acquisition or shares were subsequently cancelled, these options would specified capital investment as described in the Pre-Emption represent 1.97% of the Companys total issued ordinary share Groups Statement of Principles without prior consultation capital.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise with shareholders.
The Directors have no present intention to this authority and in reaching their decision to purchase exercise this authority.
ordinary shares will take into account, amongst other things, the Companys cash resources and capital requirements, the Resolution 17 is in addition to Resolution 16 and is also effect of any purchase on earnings per share and whether it is a special resolution.
In line with the Pre-Emption Groups in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Statement of Principles, as updated in March 2015, Resolution 17 will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash Resolution 19 Authority to hold general or sell shares out of treasury up to a further nominal amount meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear of 627,507 representing approximately 5% of the Companys days notice issued ordinary share capital as at 26 February 2018, being The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 the latest practicable date before the publication of this Notice, for general meetings is 21 clear days unless shareholders without first having to offer them to existing shareholders in approve a shorter notice period, which cannot, however, be proportion to their existing shareholdings.
The authority under less than 14 clear days.
AGMs must always be held on at Resolution 17 will only be used to allot shares or sell shares least 21 clear days notice.
This special resolution renews an out of treasury in connection with an acquisition or specified authority given at last years AGM which enables the Company capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days Principles and which is announced contemporaneously with notice.
In order to preserve this ability, shareholders must have the allotment, or has taken place in the preceding six-month approved the calling of meetings on 14 clear days notice.
period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
116 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Resolution 19, which is proposed as a special resolution, seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for general meetings, but only where, taking into account the circumstances and noting the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors consider that the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is in the interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation The Directors consider that the proposed resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own holdings of shares in the Company.
117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
