Governance DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY AND COMPLIANCE STATEMENTS STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY PREPARATION OF THE CURRENT POSITION, PROSPECTS FOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND PRINCIPAL RISKS The Directors are responsible for the The Directors are responsible for Supported by the Audit and Risk maintenance and integrity of the preparing the Annual Report, the Committee, the Directors have completed Companys website.
Legislation in the Remuneration Report and the Financial a robust review and assessment of the United Kingdom governing the Statements in accordance with principal risks in the business making use preparation and dissemination of applicable law and regulations.
of the Enterprise Risk Framework which is financial statements may differ from Company law requires the Directors to now functioning in all areas of the legislation in other jurisdictions.
prepare financial statements for each Company.
The framework ensures that STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS financial year.
Under that law, the the relevant risks are identified and RESPONSIBILITIES Directors have prepared the Group and managed and that information is shared Each of the Directors whose names and Company Financial Statements in at an appropriate level.
Full details of functions are listed in the Directors accordance with International Financial these risks are provided in the Risks to profiles set out in the Governance Reporting Standards IFRSs as our Strategy pages of the Strategic section confirms that, to the best of his adopted by the European Union EU, report.
The Board subjected the or her knowledge: and related IFRS IC interpretations and Enterprise Risk Framework to a detailed with the provisions of the Companies Act review in May.
The Directors found it was ll the Group Financial Statements, which 2006 the Act applicable to companies an effective mechanism through which have been prepared in accordance reporting under IFRS.
the principal risks and the Companys with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give risk appetite and tolerances could be a true and fair view of the assets, THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE tested and challenged.
liabilities, financial position and profit FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of the Group: The Directors undertook a detailed THE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY review of the Financial Statements in FOR ACCOUNTING RECORDS ll the Company Financial statements, January and February 2018.
Following The Directors have examined the which have been prepared in this examination, the Board was satisfied accounting records kept in the business accordance with IFRSs as adopted by that the Financial Statements for 2017 and have determined that they are the EU, give a true and fair view of give a true and fair view of the state of sufficient to show and explain the the assets, liabilities and financial affairs of the Group and the Company Companys transactions and disclose position and profit of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for with reasonable accuracy at any time and that period.
Before approving the the financial position of the Company ll the Directors Report contained in the Financial Statements, the Board satisfied and the Group and enable them to Annual Report and Accounts includes itself that in preparing the statements: ensure that the financial statements and a fair review of the development and the Directors Remuneration report performance of the business and the ll suitable accounting policies had been comply with the requirements of the Act position of the Group, together with a selected and consistently applied: and, as regards the Group financial description of the principal risks and statements, Article 4 of the IAS ll the judgements and accounting uncertainties that it faces.
They are also responsible for estimates that have been made were safeguarding the assets of the Company reasonable, necessary and prudent: In accordance with Section 418 of the and Group and for taking reasonable and Act, the Directors report includes a steps for the prevention and detection of statement, in the case of each Director ll where applicable IFRSs, as adopted by fraud and other irregularities.
in office at the date the Directors report the EU, have been adopted they have is approved, that: been followed and that there were no THE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY material departures.
FOR THE SAFEKEEPING OF a so far as the Director is aware, ASSETS there is no relevant audit information The Directors consider that the Annual The Directors have examined the steps in as defined in section 418 3 of the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, place for ensuring the prevention and Act of which the Companys auditors is fair, balanced and understandable and detection of fraud and other are unaware: and provides the information necessary for irregularities.
The procedure is examined shareholders to assess the Companys and tested on a regular basis.
The Board b he she has taken all the steps that position and performance, business he she ought to have taken as a is satisfied it is understood and is model and strategy.
operated well, and accordingly that the Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit assets of the Company are safeguarded THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF and protected from fraud and other information and to establish that the GOING CONCERN Companys auditors are aware of irregularities.
The Financial Statements have been that information.
prepared on the going concern basis, the Directors having determined that the On behalf of the Board Company is likely to continue in business for at least 12 months from the date of this report.
CHARLOTTE JONES Chief Financial Officer 26 February 2018 96 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 98 Section 1: Results for the year 108 Section 2: Consolidated statement of cash flows 110 Section 3: Assets and liabilities 116 Section 4: Equity 118 Section 5: Other notes FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: GROUP 97
