112 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements When a subsidiary is acquired, the fair value of its identifiable assets 1.
General information and basis of preparation and liabilities are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Meggitt PLC is a public limited company listed on the London All fair value adjustments are recognised with effect from the date Stock Exchange, domiciled in the United Kingdom and of acquisition and consequently may result in the restatement of incorporated in England and Wales with the registered number previously reported financial results.
Its registered office is Atlantic House, Aviation Park acquired businesses are changed where necessary to be consistent West, Bournemouth International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, with those of the Group.
When a subsidiary is disposed, the difference between the fair value Meggitt PLC is the parent company of a Group whose principal of consideration received or receivable and the value at which the activities during the year were the design and manufacture of high net assets of the subsidiary were recognised, immediately prior to performance components and sub-systems for aerospace, defence disposal, is recognised in the income statement within net operating and other specialist markets, including energy, medical, industrial, costs.
Any contingent consideration receivable is measured at test and automotive.
fair value at the date of disposal in determining the gain or loss recognised.
Contingent consideration receivable is measured at fair The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been value at each subsequent balance sheet date, with any changes in prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting fair value recognised in the income statement within net operating Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the costs.
Changes in fair value of contingent consideration receivable Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under is excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as see note 10. modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative financial instruments at fair value.
When a foreign subsidiary is disposed, the cumulative exchange differences relating to the retranslation of the net investment in the foreign subsidiary are recognised in the income statement 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
This applies only to The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group in the exchange differences recognised in equity after 1 January 2004. preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out Exchange differences arising prior to 1 January 2004 remain in below.
These policies have been applied consistently to all periods equity on disposal as permitted by IFRS 1 First time Adoption of presented unless stated otherwise.
Basis of consolidation Transactions between, and balances with, subsidiary companies The Group financial statements consolidate the financial are eliminated together with unrealised gains on intra-group statements of the Company and all of its subsidiaries together with transactions.
Unrealised losses are eliminated to the extent the the Groups share of the results of its joint venture.
asset transferred is not impaired.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with the joint venture are eliminated to the extent of A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has control.
The the Groups interest in the arrangement.
Group has control over an entity where the Group is exposed to, or has the rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the Foreign currencies entity, and it has the power over the entity to affect those returns.
Functional and presentational currency The results of subsidiaries acquired are fully consolidated from The Group consolidated financial statements are presented in the date on which control transfers to the Group.
The results of pounds sterling.
Items included in the financial statements of each subsidiaries disposed are fully consolidated up to the date on which of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the functional control transfers from the Group.
currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement between the Group and one or more other parties, under which control is shared between Transactions and balances the parties and the Group and other parties have rights to the net Transactions in foreign currencies are recognised at exchange assets of the arrangement.
A joint venture is accounted for using rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets the equity method whereby the Groups share of profits and losses and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are reported at of the joint venture is recognised in the income statement within net exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange operating costs and its share of net assets and goodwill of the joint differences on retranslating monetary assets and liabilities are venture is recognised as an investment.
recognised in the income statement within net operating costs except where they relate to qualifying net investment hedges in The cost of an acquisition is the fair value of consideration provided, which case exchange differences are recognised in hedging and including the fair value of contingent consideration, measured translation reserves within other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at each subsequent balance sheet date, with Foreign subsidiaries changes in fair value recorded in the income statement within net The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated at average operating costs.
Identifiable assets and liabilities of an acquired exchange rates for the period.
Assets and liabilities of foreign business meeting the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are subsidiaries are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
The extent to balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising from the which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of net assets retranslation of the results and opening net assets of foreign acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Costs directly attributable to subsidiaries are recognised in hedging and translation reserves an acquisition are recognised in the income statement within net within other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value operating costs as incurred.
Changes in fair value of contingent adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign subsidiary consideration payable and costs of an acquisition are excluded from are treated as assets and liabilities of the subsidiary and are the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and retranslated at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 113 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Contract accounting revenue 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued In the majority of instances, the Group is able to reliably estimate Segment reporting the outcome of a contract at inception and accordingly recognises Operating segments are those segments for which results are revenue and cost of sales by reference to the stage of completion reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM of the contract.
Revenue is typically measured by applying to total to assess performance and make decisions about resources to be contract revenue, the proportion costs incurred for work performed allocated.
The CODM has been identified as the Board see page 60 in the period bear to total estimated contract costs.
Where it is not of the Corporate governance report.
The Group has determined possible to reliably estimate the outcome of a contract, revenue that its segments are Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, Meggitt is recognised equal to costs incurred, provided recovery of such Control Systems, Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Meggitt Sensing costs is probable.
If total contract costs are forecast to exceed total Systems and the Meggitt Equipment Group.
contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately in the income statement within cost of sales.
The principal profit measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
A segmental analysis of Revenue from services underlying operating profit is accordingly provided in the notes to Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion the consolidated financial statements.
For cost-plus fixed fee contracts, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred plus an appropriate Segmental information on assets is provided in the notes to the proportion of the fee agreed with the customer.
For other contracts, consolidated financial statements in respect of trading assets, the stage of completion is typically measured by reference to which are defined to exclude from total assets, amounts which contractual milestones achieved, number of aircraft flying hours the CODM does not review at a segmental level.
Excluded assets power by the hour contracts or number of aircraft landings cost comprise centrally managed trading assets, goodwill, other per brake landing contracts.
intangible assets excluding software assets, investments, derivative financial instruments, deferred tax assets, current tax Revenue from funded research and development recoverable, cash and cash equivalents and assets classified as Revenue is recognised according to the stage of completion of held for sale.
The stage of completion is typically measured by reference to contractual milestones achieved.
No segmental information on liabilities is provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, as no such measure is Exceptional operating items reviewed by the CODM.
Items which are significant by virtue of their size or nature, which are considered non-recurring and which are excluded from the Revenue recognition underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10 are receivable in respect of goods and services provided in the normal classified as exceptional operating items.
They include, for instance, course of business to external customers, net of trade discounts, costs directly attributable to the integration of an acquired business returns and sales related taxes.
and significant site consolidation and other restructuring costs.
Additionally in 2017, given its significance, the impairment loss Sale of goods arising from cancellation by the customer of the Dassault Falcon Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards 5X programme has been treated as an exceptional operating item.
of ownership have transferred to the customer, managerial Exceptional operating items are included within the appropriate involvement and control of the goods is not retained by the Group, consolidated income statement category but are highlighted the revenue and costs associated with the sale can be measured separately in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
reliably and the collection of related receivables is probable.
In the majority of instances these conditions are met when delivery to Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and the customer takes place.
In a minority of instances, bill and hold closure of businesses arrangements exist whereby revenue is recognised prior to delivery These items are excluded from the underlying profit measures used but only when the customer has accepted title to the goods, the by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance goods are separately identifiable and available for delivery on terms of the Group see note 10.
They include, for instance, gains or agreed with the customer and normal credit terms apply.
losses made on the disposal or closure of a business, adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration payable in respect of an acquired business or receivable in respect of a disposed business and costs directly attributable to the acquisition of a business.
Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses are included within the appropriate consolidated income statement category but are highlighted separately in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
114 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Other intangible assets 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued a Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination Intangible assets For acquisitions, the Group recognises intangible assets separately Goodwill from goodwill provided they are separable or arise from contractual Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over or other legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable assets acquired Intangible assets are initially recognised at fair value, which is and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
Goodwill is tested regarded as their cost.
Intangible assets are subsequently held at annually for impairment, and also whenever events or changes in cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is carried at cost less amortisation charged prior to Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated 1 January 2004 less accumulated impairment losses.
In the event useful economic lives of the assets.
The nature of intangible assets a subsidiary to which goodwill relates is disposed, its attributable recognised and their estimated useful lives are as follows: goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
Customer relationships Up to 20 years Technology Up to 20 years Research and development Trade names and trademarks Up to 15 years Research expenditure is recognised as an expense in the income Order backlogs Over period of backlog statement as incurred.
Development costs incurred on projects typically up to 3 years where the related expenditure is separately identifiable, measurable and management are satisfied as to the ultimate technical and Amortisation of intangible assets acquired as part of a business commercial viability of the project and that the asset will generate combination is excluded from the underlying profit measures used future economic benefit based on all relevant available information, by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance are recognised as an intangible asset.
Capitalised development of the Group see note 10. costs are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged over periods expected b Software and other intangible assets to benefit, typically up to 15 years, commencing with launch Software and purchased licences, trademarks and patents are of the product.
Development costs not meeting the criteria for recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment capitalisation are expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets, typically over periods Programme participation costs up to 10 years.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed Programme participation costs consist of incentives given to annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Original Equipment Manufacturers in connection with their selection of the Groups products for installation onto new aircraft where Property, plant and equipment the Group has obtained principal supplier status.
These incentives Property, plant and equipment is recognised at cost less comprise cash payments and or the supply of initial manufactured accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, except for land parts on a free of charge or deeply discounted basis.
Programme which is recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
participation costs are recognised as an intangible asset and Cost includes expenditure directly attributable to the acquisition of carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment the asset.
For manufactured parts supplied on a free of charge or deeply discounted basis, cost represents the cost of manufacture Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated transferred from inventory less the value of any revenue received useful economic lives of the assets as follows: or receivable.
Amortisation is charged over periods expected to Freehold buildings Up to 50 years benefit from receiving the status of principal supplier, through the Leasehold property Over period of lease sale of replacement parts, typically up to 15 years.
Plant and machinery 3 to 10 years Furnaces Up to 20 years Fixtures and fittings 3 to 10 years Motor vehicles 4 to 5 years Residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
When property, plant and equipment is disposed, the difference between sale proceeds, net of related costs, and the carrying value of the asset is recognised in the income statement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 115 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Impairment of non-current non-financial assets 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Assets are reviewed for impairment annually and also whenever Borrowing costs events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction or may not be recoverable.
To the extent carrying value exceeds production of qualifying assets, are capitalised as part of the cost recoverable amount, the difference is recognised as an expense of those assets until such time as the assets are substantially ready in the income statement.
The recoverable amount used for for their intended use.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily impairment testing is the higher of value in use and fair value less take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, costs of disposal.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are which would generally be at least 12 months.
All other borrowing generally tested individually or at a CGU level which represents the costs are recognised in the income statement within finance costs lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows as incurred.
which are largely independent of cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Where it is not possible to allocate goodwill on a Taxation non-arbitrary basis to individual CGUs, it is allocated to the group Current tax is based on taxable profit for the period, calculated of CGUs which represent the lowest level within the Group at which using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance goodwill is monitored by management.
At each balance sheet date, sheet date.
previously recognised impairment losses, other than any relating to goodwill, are reviewed and if no longer required reversed with a Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on corresponding credit to the income statement.
temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their corresponding book values as recognised in the Inventories Group consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax is provided Inventories are recognised at the lower of cost and net realisable on unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries, except where the value.
Cost represents materials, direct labour, other direct costs Group can control the remittance and it is probable that earnings and related production overheads, based on normal operating will not be remitted in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets capacity, and is determined using the first-in first-out FIFO are recognised only to the extent it is probable that taxable profits method.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, will be available against which deductible temporary differences less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates enacted or disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in the income When a subsidiary is acquired, finished goods are recognised at statement, other comprehensive income or directly in equity fair value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs of depending on where the item to which they relate has been disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort.
In 2017, given its significance, the tax credit recognised Work in progress is also recognised at fair value at acquisition, in the income statement arising from the reduction in the US federal which is typically estimated selling price less costs to complete, corporate tax rate has been excluded from the Groups underlying costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for work not profit for the year see note 10. yet completed.
When such inventory is subsequently disposed post acquisition, the fair value is charged to the income statement.
Provision is made for current tax liabilities, when the Group has The difference between the fair value of the inventory disposed a present obligation as a result of past events, it is probable an and its actual cost of manufacture is excluded from the underlying outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the and the amount can be reliably estimated.
The Group typically uses underlying performance of the Group see note 10. a weighted average of outcomes assessed as possible to determine the level of provision required, unless a single best estimate of Trade and other receivables the outcome is considered to be more appropriate.
Assessments Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are made at the level of an individual tax uncertainty, unless subsequently measured at amortised cost less any impairment uncertainties are considered to be related, in which case they are losses.
Provisions, which are not discounted given the short period over which they are expected to be utilised, are Where the Group recognises a provision, to the extent the included within current tax liabilities.
Any liability relating to interest outflows of economic benefits required to settle the obligation are on tax liabilities is included within finance costs.
recoverable from an insurer or other third party, an other receivable is recognised.
Other receivables are discounted to present value where the impact is significant, using a pre-tax rate.
The discount rate used is based on current market assessments of the time value of money, adjusted to reflect any risks specific to the receivable which have not been reflected in the undiscounted receivable.
The impact of the unwinding of discounting is recognised in the income statement within finance income.
116 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Provisions 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Provision is made for environmental liabilities, onerous contracts, Cash and cash equivalents product warranty claims and other liabilities when the Group has a Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits present obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than held at call with banks.
Bank overdrafts are disclosed as current not that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle liabilities, within bank and other borrowings, except where the the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions Group participates in offset arrangements with certain banks are discounted to present value where the impact is significant, whereby cash and overdraft amounts are offset against each other.
The discount rate used is based on current market assessments of the time value of money, adjusted to reflect Trade payables any risks specific to the obligation which have not been reflected Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and in the undiscounted provision.
The impact of the unwinding of subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Trade payables are not discounting is recognised in the income statement within finance interest bearing.
Leases Retirement benefit schemes Leases where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards For defined benefit schemes, pension costs and the costs of of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are providing other post-retirement benefits, principally healthcare, are capitalised at commencement of the lease at the lower of fair charged to the income statement in accordance with the advice of value of the leased asset and present value of the minimum lease qualified independent actuaries.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance Past service credits and costs and curtailment gains and losses are outstanding.
The corresponding lease obligations, net of finance recognised immediately in the income statement.
charges, are included in liabilities.
Assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Retirement benefit obligations represent, for each scheme, the difference between the fair value of the schemes assets and Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of the present value of the schemes defined benefit obligations ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating measured at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of any is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the income projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
benefit obligation is determined by discounting the defined benefit obligations using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds Borrowings denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being proceeds with terms to maturity comparable with the terms of the related received less directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Where the Group has a statutory or Borrowings are generally subsequently measured at amortised cost contractual minimum funding requirement to make contributions at each balance sheet date with any transaction costs amortised to a scheme in respect of past service and any such contributions to the income statement over the period of the borrowings using are not available to the Group once paid as a reduction in the effective interest method.
Certain borrowings however are future contributions or as a refund to which the Group has an designated as fair value through profit and loss at inception, where unconditional right either during the life of the scheme or when the Group has interest rate derivatives in place which have the the scheme liabilities are settled, an additional liability for such economic effect of converting fixed rate borrowings into floating amounts is recognised.
Such borrowings are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date with any movement in fair value recognised Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in the period in in the income statement within net operating costs.
Movements in which they arise in other comprehensive income.
fair value are excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of For defined contribution schemes, payments are recognised in the the Group see note 10. income statement when they fall due.
The Group has no further obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Any related interest accruals are included within borrowings.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 117 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Cash flow hedges 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Changes in fair value of the effective portion of derivative financial Share-based compensation instruments, that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, The Group operates a number of share-based compensation are initially recognised in other comprehensive income.
Changes schemes, which are principally equity-settled.
in fair value of any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement within net operating costs.
To the extent For equity-settled schemes, the fair value of an award is measured changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive at the date of grant and reflects any market-based vesting income, they are recycled to the income statement in the periods conditions.
At the date of grant, the Group estimates the number in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
The Group of awards expected to vest as a result of non market-based vesting currently applies cash flow hedge accounting to the hedging of conditions and the fair value of this estimated number of awards is floating interest rate risk on bank and other borrowings.
recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straightline basis over the period for which services are received.
At each If the hedging instrument is sold or no longer meets the criteria balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number for hedge accounting, the cumulative gain or loss previously of awards expected to vest as a result of non market-based vesting recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the conditions and adjusts the amount recognised cumulatively in the income statement within net operating costs.
income statement to reflect the revised estimate.
When awards are exercised and the Company issues new shares, the proceeds Net investment hedges received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are Changes in fair value of the effective portion of any hedge are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
recognised in other comprehensive income.
Changes in fair value of any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income Derivative financial instruments and hedging statement within net operating costs.
Cumulative gains and The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency transactional transferred to the income statement if the foreign subsidiary to which risk.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair they relate is disposed.
Any such gains or losses are excluded from value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and are the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and subsequently measured at fair value at each balance sheet date measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10. using values determined indirectly from quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability.
Derivatives not meeting the criteria for hedge accounting Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, The method by which any gain or loss arising from subsequent changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income measurement at fair value is recognised, depends on whether the statement within net operating costs.
Gains and losses arising instrument is designated as a hedging instrument and if so the from measuring these derivatives at fair value are excluded from nature of the item hedged.
The Group recognises an instrument the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and as a hedging instrument by documenting, at its inception, the relationship between the instrument and the hedged item and the measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10. objectives and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction.
To be designated as a hedging instrument, an instrument must Share capital also be assessed, at inception and on an ongoing basis, to be highly Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged attributable to the issue of new shares are deducted from the items.
To the extent the maturity of the derivative financial instrument is Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by more than 12 months from the balance sheet date, the fair value is an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan.
reported as a non-current asset or non-current liability.
All other Consideration paid for own shares, including any incremental derivative financial instruments are reported as current assets or directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from current liabilities.
Fair value hedges Dividends Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are Interim dividends are recognised as liabilities when they are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, are recognised in approved by the Board.
Final dividends are recognised as liabilities the income statement within net operating costs together with when they are approved by the shareholders.
changes in fair value of the hedged item.
Any difference between the movement in fair value of the derivative and the hedged item is excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
The Group currently applies fair value hedge accounting to the hedging of fixed interest rate risk on bank and other borrowings.
118 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Adoption of new and revised accounting standards During the year, no new accounting standards became effective which had a significant impact on the Group consolidated financial statements.
Recent accounting developments A number of new standards and amendments and revisions to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups future accounting periods.
They have not been early adopted in these consolidated financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements when they are adopted except as disclosed below: IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers This standard establishes principles for reporting the nature, amount and timing of revenue arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
The standard becomes effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Groups intention is to apply the full retrospective approach upon adoption of IFRS 15.
This approach requires all open contracts with customers presented in the 2018 consolidated financial statements to be transitioned under the new standard.
Comparative financial information for 2017 will be restated with a cumulative adjustment to equity at 1 January 2017.
The Group has performed a significant, detailed analysis in order to quantify the impact of IFRS 15.
The principal areas of the Groups existing accounting impacted include: Programme participation costs Free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts Amounts previously recognised as an intangible asset and amortised over their useful lives will now be expensed as incurred.
Programme participation costs Cash payments The treatment of cash programme payments will depend on the nature of the contractual relationship between the Group and the third party to whom the payment is made.
Where the payment is made to a third party under a revenue contract as defined by IFRS 15, or the award of future IFRS 15 revenue contracts on the programme from the same party is highly probable, payments will be recognised as a contract asset and amortised, as a deduction from revenue, over the periods expected to benefit from those contracts.
This situation will most frequently arise where payment is made to the same party to whom OE and or aftermarket parts are sold.
Other payments, will continue to be recognised as an intangible asset and amortised as a charge to cost of sales.
Revenue from sale of goods The timing of revenue recognised on the substantial majority of contracts is not significantly affected by IFRS 15 with revenue continuing to be recognised as goods are delivered to the customer, at the price agreed with the customer for those goods.
A minority of contracts require changes to the timing of recognition of revenue to reflect IFRS 15 guidance on areas such as the accounting for customer price changes, volume discounts, whether multiple deliveries and services provided to a customer should be accounted for individually or aggregated and, for certain military contracts, the requirement to recognise revenue over time as parts are manufactured.
Contract accounting revenue Certain contracts will no longer meet the criteria for revenue to be recognised as work is performed, but will instead only be recognised at a point in time, usually when goods are delivered to the customer.
Contracts which continue to qualify for revenue to be recognised over time will be accounted for as performance occurs, although the method by which performance is measured will, in some instances, change under IFRS 15.
Revenue from power by the hour and cost per brake landing type contracts Revenue will no longer be recognised by reference to the number of aircraft flying hours or aircraft landings but when maintenance events are carried out.
Revenue from other services No significant changes to the current method of accounting will arise.
Revenue from funded research and development contracts Revenue will no longer be recognised as contractually agreed milestones are achieved but when control passes to the customer, either over time as work is performed or at a point in time as performance obligations are satisfied.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 119 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued An assessment of the expected impact of IFRS 15 is shown below.
It represents a reasonable estimate of the expected impact on the reported results for the year ended 31 December 2017 and on the net assets at that date but is subject to revision during 2018 as the Group completes its analysis, particularly for those contracts on which revenue was recognised in the latter part of 2017 under current GAAP.
m Revenue: As reported 2,027.3 Expected impacts 30.5 Estimated revenue for the year ended 31 December 2017 Restated under IFRS 15 1,996.8 Underlying operating profit: As reported 388.4 Programme participation costs free of charge deeply discounted 22.9 Expected other impacts 9.8 Estimated underlying operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 Restated under IFRS 15 355.7 Relates to the expensing of amounts capitalised in 2017 and the reversal of the amortisation charge for the year.
The estimated impact on net assets at 31 December 2017 is a reduction of 234.2m from that reported under current GAAP, driven principally by the expensing of 285.4m free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts and the elimination of the associated deferred tax liability held in respect of such amounts.
IFRS 16, Leases This standard requires recognition on the Groups balance sheet of assets and liabilities relating to leases which are currently being accounted for as operating leases.
The standard becomes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 however, the Groups intention is to early adopt this standard in its accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2018.
The Group has performed an analysis to assess the impact of IFRS 16 and estimates it will recognise additional right of use assets, primarily in relation to property leases, of 90.0m on the balance sheet at 31 December 2017.
Additional lease liabilities of a similar amount will also be recognised, and the impact on net assets will not be significant.
The operating lease rental expense currently charged to operating profit in the income statement for 2017 will be replaced by an amortisation charge for the right of use assets recognised in operating profit and an interest charge on the lease liabilities recognised in finance costs.
The net impact on the income statement for 2017 is not expected to be significant.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups operations expose it to a number of financial risks including market risk principally foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These risks are managed by a centralised treasury department, in accordance with Board approved objectives, policies and authorities see also pages 37 to 38 of the Chief Financial Officers review.
Regular reports monitor exposures and assist in managing the associated risks.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is subject to foreign exchange risks on future commercial transactions and the retranslation of the results of, and net investments in, foreign subsidiaries.
The principal exposure arises with respect to the US dollar against the Pound sterling.
To mitigate risks associated with future commercial transactions, the Group policy is to hedge known and certain forecast transaction exposure based on historical experience and projections.
The Group hedges at least 70% of the next 12 months anticipated exposure and can hedge expected exposures up to five years.
Details of hedges in place are provided in note 32.
The Group does not hedge exposure arising from the retranslation of the results of foreign subsidiaries.
The Group uses borrowings denominated in the relevant currencies to partially hedge its net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk The Group has borrowings issued at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk, whereas borrowings issued at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to generally maintain at least 25% of its net debt at fixed rates.
The Group mitigates interest rate risks through interest rate derivatives which have the economic effect of converting fixed rate borrowings into floating rate borrowings and floating rate borrowings into fixed rate borrowings.
Details of hedges in place are provided in note 32. Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk with exposure spread across a large number of customers across the world.
In addition, many of the Groups principal customers are either government departments or large multinationals.
Note 25 details the Groups credit risk exposures in relation to its customers.
Policies are maintained to ensure the Group makes sales to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Letters of credit, or other appropriate instruments, are put in place to reduce credit risk where considered necessary.
The Group is also subject to credit risk on the counterparties to its other financial instruments which it controls through only dealing with highly rated counterparties and netting transactions on settlement wherever possible.
The credit quality of the Groups counterparties is set out in notes 26 and 32.
120 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk The Group maintains sufficient committed facilities to meet projected borrowing requirements based on cash flow forecasts.
Additional headroom is maintained to protect against the variability of cash flows and to accommodate small bolt-on acquisitions.
Key ratios are monitored to ensure continued compliance with covenants contained in the Groups principal credit agreements.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows: 2017 Less than 1-2 years 2-5 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m m Trade and other payables 435.3 1.8 0.2 3.5 440.8 Bank and other borrowings 61.7 551.3 444.4 1,057.4 Interest payments on borrowings 31.5 30.5 66.0 39.4 167.4 Obligations under finance leases see note 29 1.1 1.2 3.6 10.8 16.7 Derivative financial instruments: Inflows 7.3 6.0 6.4 19.7 Total 522.3 27.5 614.7 498.1 1,662.6 2016 Less than 1-2 years 2-5 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m m Trade and other payables 453.1 1.2 1.8 2.0 458.1 Bank and other borrowings 162.0 0.2 569.0 586.9 1,318.1 Interest payments on borrowings 41.8 33.3 86.0 62.4 223.5 Obligations under finance leases see note 29 1.2 1.7 3.4 13.1 19.4 Derivative financial instruments: Inflows 11.6 7.1 14.1 1.3 34.1 Total 646.5 29.3 646.1 663.1 1,985.0 Excludes social security and other taxes of 10.2m 2016: 10.9m see note 27.
Assumes no change in interest rates from those prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Sensitivity analysis The Groups principal exposure in relation to market risks are to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and Pound sterling and to changes in US interest rates.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups results to changes in these key variables at the balance sheet date.
The analysis covers only financial assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date and is made on the basis of the hedge designations in place on those dates and assuming no hedge ineffectiveness.
2017 2016 Income Equity Income Equity statement statement m m m m USD Sterling exchange rate - 10% 39.6 94.9 49.0 123.0 US yield curve - 1% 17.8 0.3 14.2 3.3 The impact on equity from movements in the exchange rate comprises 93.8m 2016: 124.8m in respect of US dollar net debt, and 1.1m 2016: offset by 1.8m in respect of other financial assets and liabilities.
However, as all US dollar net debt is designated as a net investment hedge, this element of the impact is entirely offset by the retranslation of foreign subsidiaries.
The impact of a 1% movement in the US yield curve includes the effect on the Groups foreign currency forward contracts and other financial assets and liabilities.
Capital risk management The Groups objective when managing its capital structure is to minimise the cost of capital whilst maintaining adequate capital to protect against volatility in earnings and net assets.
The strategy is designed to maximise shareholder return over the long-term.
The Groups posttax weighted average cost of capital at 31 December 2017 is approximately 6.2% 2016: 6.2% and its capital structure is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Net debt see note 42 964.8 1,179.1 Total equity 2,556.4 2,456.4 Debt equity % 37.7% 48.0% The Board believes that in maintaining an efficient balance sheet, a net debt:EBITDA ratio of between 1.5x and 2.5x is appropriate, whilst retaining the flexibility to move outside the range if appropriate.
Further details on the Groups strategy for delivering net debt:EBITDA in this range can be found on page 37 and 38 of the Chief Financial Officers review, which includes details on how the Group has complied with the two principal financial covenant requirements contained in its committed credit facilities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 121 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements In applying the Groups accounting policies set out in note 2, the Group is required to make certain estimates and judgements concerning the future.
These estimates and judgements are regularly reviewed and revised as necessary.
The estimates and judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts included in these consolidated financial statements are described below.
Further consideration of these critical estimates and judgements can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 67.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions Impairment testing of goodwill Each year the Group carries out impairment tests of goodwill which require estimates to be made of the value in use of its CGUs or groups of CGUs.
These value in use calculations are dependent on estimates of future cash flows, long-term growth rates and appropriate discount rates to be applied to future cash flows.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the carrying value of goodwill to these estimates are provided in note 18.
Cancellation of Dassault Falcon 5X programme On 13 December 2017, Dassault Aviation Dassault announced the cancellation of its Falcon 5X programme and the launch of a new Falcon programme featuring the same cross section, but powered by Pratt & Whitney Canada engines rather than the Silvercrest engine selected for the Falcon 5X.
Dassault forecast the new aircraft will enter into service in 2022 and indicate they expect to re-use a maximum of work undertaken to date on the Falcon 5X and to work with Meggitt on the successor programme.
Prior to cancellation, the most recent impairment testing performed by the Group, using third party fleet forecast information, had not identified any requirement for an impairment.
At the date of cancellation, the Group had assets of 59.5m on the balance sheet related to the Falcon 5X and Silvercrest engine principally development costs incurred by Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems.
The cancellation has required the Group to perform an additional impairment test to reassess the estimated recoverable value of these assets.
In making this estimate, the Group has taken into consideration the contractual position with the customer, the considerable uncertainty surrounding the successor programme design and the extent to which this new design will impact the braking system and require significant rework, for instance from increases in the maximum take-off weight.
The Group has also considered the lack of reliable fleet forecasts for the new aircraft, forecast delays in entry into service of the new aircraft compared to the Falcon 5X and the extent to which the cancellation significantly reduces forecast demand for the Silvercrest engine.
The Group has concluded that the level of uncertainty in these areas is so significant that it is not possible to reliably estimate the extent to which any of the costs previously held on the balance sheet will be recoverable and accordingly has recognised a full impairment of these assets in 2017 see note 11.
Given cancellation occurred late in 2017, it is possible that over the course of 2018 there will be progress made to resolve some of the areas of uncertainty referred to above.
Depending on the outcome of these uncertainties, it is therefore reasonably foreseeable that an element of the impairment loss recognised in 2017 may be reversed in 2018.
The Group has considered whether a contingent asset should be disclosed however, until these uncertainties are resolved, it is not possible to quantify the extent of any reversal in order to ascribe a value to any such asset.
Retirement benefit obligations The liability recognised in respect of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on a number of estimates including those relating to mortality, inflation, salary increases and the rate at which liabilities are discounted.
External actuarial advice is taken with regard to the most appropriate assumptions to use.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the retirement benefit obligations to these estimates are provided in note 35.
Environmental provisions The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at certain sites for which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under US law see note 33 for further details.
In determining the provision to be recognised, advice is received by the Group from its environmental consultants and legal advisors to assist in the estimate of the level and timing of remediation costs, including the period for which operations and monitoring activities will be required to be carried out.
These estimates are revised regularly as remediation activities progress and further information is obtained on the extent of activities to be performed by the Group.
In the last five years, both annual reductions and annual increases in costs estimates have been experienced.
If the cost estimates on which the provision at 31 December 2017 is based were to change by 15%, the largest observed overall annual movement seen in this five year period, the provision recognised would need to change by approximately 15.0m.
During the last five years, no significant changes to the estimated period for which operations and maintenance activities will be required have been necessary.
However, as the period for which groundwater testing has been performed increases, the results of that testing provide a more reliable estimate of the extent to which such activities will continue to be required in the future.
It is reasonably foreseeable that, depending on groundwater testing results in 2018, the periods for which operations and maintenance will be required could increase by up to five years.
Were an increase of five years to be required, the provision recognised would need to increase by approximately 8.0m.
The Group has extensive insurance arrangements in place to mitigate the ongoing impact of historical environmental events on the Group see note 33 for further details.
These insurance policies however, have monetary caps and in some cases are term policies, whereby costs are only recoverable if incurred by specified dates.
The estimates of the extent and timing of remediation costs, used to determine the provision, are also used in determining the level of receivable to recognise.
If remediation cost estimates were to change by 15%, the receivable recognised would need to change by approximately 4.0m reflecting the impact of the insurance policy caps in place.
If additionally, the estimated period for which operations and maintenance is required were to increase by five years, the receivable recognised would need to increase by 1.7m.
Whilst the timing of remediation is based on advice from third party environmental consultants, it is possible that delays could occur with site excavation activities.
However, progress on remediation activities during 2017 has been significant on those sites where term insurance policies are in place and accordingly the Group no longer considers that any reasonably foreseeable future delays will have a significant impact on the insurance receivable recognised.
122 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Income taxes In determining the Groups tax provision, it is necessary to consider transactions in a small number of key tax jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Groups tax provision at 31 December 2017 is 37.4m 2016: 43.4m and reflects a number of areas of judgement where the amount of tax payable is either currently under audit by the tax authorities or relates to a period which has yet to be audited.
These areas include the deductibility of interest on certain borrowings used to finance acquisitions made by the Group and the price at which goods and services are transferred between Group companies.
The nature of the items, for which a provision is held, is such that the final outcome could vary from the amounts held once a final tax determination is made, although currently none of these exposures is considered individually material.
Based on the Groups recent experience of revisions to previous tax estimates as more information has become available, and assuming no significant changes in legislation from those already announced, it currently expects the outcome across all open items to range from a potential increase of 7.0m in the provision to a potential reduction of 8.0m.
To the extent the estimated final outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax balances held in the period the determination is made.
Critical accounting judgements Level at which impairment testing of goodwill is performed Goodwill is required to be allocated to CGUs or groups of CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
In the Groups judgement, with the exception of businesses within its Equipment Group segment and the advance composite businesses acquired in late 2015, it is appropriate to allocate goodwill to the group of CGUs represented by its operating segments.
In making this judgement, the Group considers that the extent of consolidation of activities within each segment other than in the Meggitt Equipment Group is such that allocating goodwill to individual CGUs within that segment would require management to perform significant arbitrary allocations.
The allocation of goodwill at a segment level is consistent with the level at which it is monitored by management.
The cash inflows of the two advanced composites businesses are not considered independent of one another, and continue to be treated as a single CGU.
Although integration of the activities of the CGU with the rest of the businesses within its operating segment is progressing well, it is still possible to reliably allocate goodwill to the CGU and it continues to be monitored by management at this level.
Accordingly impairment testing in the year has been performed at the CGU level.
Due to the nature of CGUs within the Meggitt Equipment Group, which principally operate independently of one another, goodwill can be reliably allocated to each CGU within the segment for testing.
Capitalisation of development costs The Group is required to make judgements as to when development costs meet the criteria to be recognised as intangible assets.
The majority of capitalised development costs relate to technology developed for aerospace programmes.
In such cases, costs are typically not capitalised until a contract to develop the technology is awarded by a customer as, prior to this date, it is generally not possible to reliably estimate the point at which research activities conclude and development activities commence.
Absent a contract, the Group also does not believe there is generally sufficient certainty over the future economic benefits that will be generated from the technology, to allow capitalisation of those costs.
Post contract award, the Group will capitalise development costs provided it expects to retain the intellectual property in the technology throughout substantially all of the life of the aircraft or engine and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
In making a judgement as to whether economic benefits will arise, the Group will make estimates of aircraft or engine volumes taking into account the extent to which the Group has a sole-source position, aftermarket revenues which are dependent on aircraft utilisation, fleet lives and operator service routines, costs of manufacture and costs to complete the development activity.
During 2017, the Group recognised 61.3m of development costs as an intangible asset see note 19.
Capitalisation of programme participation costs The Group is required to make judgements as to when programme participation costs meet the criteria to be recognised as intangible assets.
Approximately 85% of capitalised programme participation costs relate to free of charge or deeply discounted manufactured parts FOC, with the balance relating to cash programme payments.
All amounts relate to aerospace programmes.
FOC costs are typically incurred just prior to individual aircraft entering service and only where the Group is satisfied it is probable the costs will be recovered through incremental aftermarket revenues generated over the life of the part, will amounts be capitalised.
In making this judgement, the Group makes estimates of aftermarket revenues which are dependent on aircraft utilisation, fleet lives and operator service routines.
The capitalisation of cash payments is subject to similar judgements to those described for development costs above.
During 2017, the Group recognised 60.3m of programme participation costs as an intangible asset see note 19.
Revenue The Groups revenue is analysed as follows: 2017 2016 m m Sale of goods 1,861.3 1,798.8 Contract accounting revenue 29.1 59.8 Revenue from services Power by the hour Cost per brake landing 39.4 39.0 Revenue from services Other 54.2 56.0 Revenue from funded research and development 43.3 38.8 Total 2,027.3 1,992.4 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 123 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 6.
Segmental analysis Analysis by operating segment The Group manages its businesses under the key segments of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, Meggitt Control Systems, Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Meggitt Sensing Systems and the Meggitt Equipment Group.
Details of the Groups divisions can be found on pages 25 to 29 of the Strategic report.
The segmental analysis for the prior year has been restated to reflect the closure of the Groups Meggitt Control Systems operations in Corona, California and transfer of certain of its activities to an existing Meggitt Equipment operation in Irvine California.
It has also been restated to reflect the transfer of responsibility for certain aftermarket operations from Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems and Meggitt Sensing Systems to Meggitt Control Systems.
Year ended 31 December 2017 The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
A detailed reconciliation of operating profit to underlying operating profit is provided in note 10.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 393.2 527.6 339.2 539.5 275.7 2,075.2 Inter-segment revenue 6.5 1.2 1.9 24.7 13.6 47.9 Revenue from external customers 386.7 526.4 337.3 514.8 262.1 2,027.3 Underlying operating profit see note 10 147.7 123.7 24.0 71.4 21.6 388.4 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 84.2 Operating profit see note 10 304.2 Finance income see note 12 1.4 Finance costs see note 13 43.2 Net finance costs 41.8 Profit before tax 262.4 Tax credit see note 14 87.6 Profit for the year 350.0 Exceptional operating items 56.7 4.1 4.5 2.9 2.0 70.2 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 92.7 21.2 23.1 21.2 8.9 167.1 Impairment gain loss see notes 19 and 21 1.5 1.7 2.0 0.7 2.9 Depreciation see note 21 7.5 7.3 9.5 11.3 5.3 40.9 Central costs are allocated using a variety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between the costs and the segments.
Bases include headcount, payroll costs, gross assets and revenue.
Central exceptional items of 4.4m were not included in segmental exceptional operating items reviewed by the CODM.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 73.6m has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
Excludes amounts charged to exceptional operating items of 55.9m see note 11.
The Groups largest customer accounts for 7.7% of revenue 156.6m.
Revenue from this customer arises across all segments.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets Development costs net of customer funding see note 19 27.8 3.9 0.6 23.5 1.9 57.7 Programme participation costs see note 19 47.6 6.3 0.2 6.2 60.3 Other purchased intangible assets 0.1 0.9 1.0 0.9 0.7 3.6 Property, plant and equipment 10.4 8.7 26.2 10.7 5.5 61.5 Total 85.9 19.8 28.0 41.3 8.1 183.1 Relate to those non-current assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
124 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued At 31 December 2017 Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 759.1 Meggitt Control Systems 352.6 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 220.6 Meggitt Sensing Systems 457.0 Meggitt Equipment Group 177.5 Total segmental trading assets 1,966.8 Centrally managed trading assets 131.0 Goodwill see note 18 1,947.0 Other intangible assets 592.0 Investments see note 22 13.6 Derivative financial instruments non-current see note 32 28.5 Deferred tax assets see note 34 11.5 Derivative financial instruments current see note 32 3.6 Current tax recoverable 4.3 Cash and cash equivalents see note 26 118.5 Assets classified as held for sale see note 23 9.7 Total assets 4,826.5 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers and other third parties in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
Year ended 31 December 2016 Restated The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 391.7 487.0 331.2 541.2 284.2 2,035.3 Inter-segment revenue 5.7 0.9 1.5 22.0 12.8 42.9 Revenue from external customers 386.0 486.1 329.7 519.2 271.4 1,992.4 Underlying operating profit see note 10 140.3 119.2 39.5 71.3 9.4 379.7 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 146.0 Operating profit see note 10 233.7 Finance income see note 12 2.0 Finance costs see note 13 40.2 Net finance costs 38.2 Profit before tax 195.5 Tax charge see note 14 24.3 Profit for the year 171.2 Exceptional operating items see note 11 3.3 0.2 7.0 2.7 2.3 15.5 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 87.8 19.2 23.6 20.8 10.7 162.1 Impairment loss see note 19 1.5 1.5 3.3 3.3 Depreciation see note 21 7.6 7.7 7.9 11.6 6.5 41.3 Central costs are allocated using a variety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between the costs and the segments.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 63.5m was charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 125 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 6.
Segmental analysis continued The Groups largest customer accounts for 6.6% of revenue 132.4m.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets Development costs net of customer funding see note 19 34.0 2.0 0.7 27.3 5.6 69.6 Programme participation costs see note 19 49.0 6.1 0.2 2.6 57.9 Other purchased intangible assets 1.3 0.3 0.9 1.1 0.5 4.1 Property, plant and equipment 7.7 11.4 14.8 14.6 4.8 53.3 Total 92.0 19.8 16.6 45.6 10.9 184.9 Relate to those non-current assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
At 31 December 2016 Restated Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 824.7 Meggitt Control Systems 372.1 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 230.0 Meggitt Sensing Systems 463.2 Meggitt Equipment Group 178.6 Total segmental trading assets 2,068.6 Centrally managed trading assets 176.0 Goodwill see note 18 2,095.7 Other intangible assets 738.3 Investments see note 22 14.8 Derivative financial instruments non-current see note 32 21.8 Deferred tax assets see note 34 15.9 Derivative financial instruments current see note 32 4.2 Current tax recoverable 4.4 Cash and cash equivalents see note 26 173.8 Total assets 5,313.5 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers and other third parties in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
Analysis by geography 2017 2016 m m Revenue UK 197.1 201.8 Rest of Europe 410.4 422.2 United States of America 1,142.3 1,081.7 Rest of World 277.5 286.7 Total 2,027.3 1,992.4 Revenue is based on the location of the customer.
2017 2016 m m Non-current assets UK 705.9 700.8 Rest of Europe 201.7 211.2 United States of America 2,837.4 3,194.1 Rest of World 11.4 11.1 Total 3,756.4 4,117.2 Segmental non-current assets are based on the location of the assets.
They exclude the investment in the Groups joint venture, trade and other receivables, derivative financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
126 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Auditors remuneration Payable to  LLP and its associates: 2017 2016 m m For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements in respect of the current year 1.2 1.2 For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements in respect of the prior year 0.2 For the audit of the accounts of any subsidiary of the Company in respect of the current year 0.7 0.7 Total 1.9 2.1 Non-audit fees payable to  LLP are 0.1m 2016: Nil.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2017 2016 m m Raw materials and consumables used 569.1 588.5 Change in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 2.4 24.0 Employee costs see note 9 724.4 708.2 Research and development costs 92.4 85.4 Amortisation of capitalised development costs see note 19 22.1 14.0 Amortisation of programme participation costs see note 19 36.8 33.4 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations see note 10 93.5 98.6 Amortisation of software and other intangible assets see note 20 14.7 16.1 Impairment loss on capitalised development costs see note 19 0.9 3.3 Depreciation see note 21 40.9 41.3 Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment see note 21 2.0 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.8 1.4 Loss on disposal of software and other intangible assets 0.3 Exceptional operating items see note 11 74.6 15.5 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses see note 10 25.3 39.1 Financial instruments see note 10 58.6 66.4 Net foreign exchange gains 7.1 5.3 Operating lease rentals 19.9 16.9 Share of profit after tax of joint venture see note 22 0.6 1.2 Dividend income from joint venture see note 22 0.5 Other operating income 5.4 2.3 Total research and development expenditure in the year is 153.7m 2016: 157.8m of which 36.1m 2016: 31.7m is charged to cost of sales, 56.3m 2016: 53.7m is charged to net operating costs and 61.3m 2016: 72.4m is capitalised as development costs see note 19.
Employee information 2017 2016 m m Employee costs including executive directors: Wages and salaries 574.8 554.3 Social security costs 102.9 100.7 Retirement benefit costs see note 35 38.7 45.2 Share-based payment expense see note 37 8.0 8.0 Total 724.4 708.2 2017 2016 Restated Number Number Average monthly number of persons employed including executive directors: Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 1,169 1,223 Meggitt Control Systems 1,695 1,734 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 2,632 2,547 Meggitt Sensing Systems 2,927 3,099 Meggitt Equipment Group 1,521 1,767 Corporate including shared services 457 411 Total persons employed 10,401 10,781 Others persons providing similar services 673 698 Total 11,074 11,479 Restated to reflect the changes in divisional structure as described in note 6 and to disclose separately persons who are not employees, but provide similar services.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 127 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 10.
Reconciliations between profit and underlying profit Underlying profit is used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying trading performance of the Group.
It excludes certain items as described below.
Delivery of the Groups strategy includes investment in acquisitions that enhance its technology portfolio and the restructuring of its cost base to deliver operational improvements.
The exclusion of significant items arising from M&A activity and business restructuring is designed by the Board to align short-term operational decisions with this longer-term strategy.
Accordingly amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses, amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations, disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations, business restructuring and site consolidation costs are excluded from underlying profit measures.
Due to the significance of the impairment loss arising from cancellation of the Dassault Falcon 5X programme and of the tax credit arising from the reduction in the US rate of federal corporate tax, these amounts have been excluded from underlying profit measures for 2017.
To ensure appropriate and timely commercial decisions are made as to when and how to mitigate the Groups foreign currency and interest rate exposures, gains and losses arising from the marking to market of financial instruments that are not hedge accounted are also excluded from underlying profit measures.
The Board considers net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations to be a non-trading item and accordingly excludes it from underlying profit measures.
Items excluded from underlying profit measures are treated consistently with the way performance is measured under the Groups short term and long term incentive plans and covenant requirements defined in the Groups committed credit facilities.
2017 2016 Note m m Operating profit 304.2 233.7 Exceptional operating items see note 11 74.6 15.5 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses a 25.3 39.1 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations b 93.5 98.6 Disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations c 4.6 Financial instruments d 58.6 66.4 Adjustments to operating profit 84.2 146.0 Underlying operating profit 388.4 379.7 Profit before tax 262.4 195.5 Adjustments to operating profit per above 84.2 146.0 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 35 11.3 10.6 Adjustments to profit before tax 95.5 156.6 Underlying profit before tax 357.9 352.1 Profit for the year 350.0 171.2 Adjustments to profit before tax per above 95.5 156.6 Tax effect of adjustments to profit before tax 49.8 58.4 Impact of reduction in the US rate of federal corporate tax see note 14 122.6 Adjustments to profit for the year 76.9 98.2 Underlying profit for the year 273.1 269.4 Of the adjustments to operating profit, 10.0m 2016: 3.6m relating to exceptional operating items and Nil 2016: 4.6m relating to the disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations has been charged to cost of sales, with the balance of 74.2m 2016: 137.8m included within net operating costs.
The Group separately presents amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses.
These include gains or losses made on the disposal or closure of a business, adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration payable in respect of an acquired business or receivable in respect of a disposed business and costs directly attributable to the acquisition and disposal of businesses.
2017 2016 m m Gain on disposal of businesses see note 44 40.3 40.7 Remeasurement of fair value of contingent consideration receivable relating to previously disposed businesses 0.3 Impairment of assets classified as held for sale see note 23 14.2 Costs related to the disposal of businesses 0.6 Costs related to the acquisition of businesses 0.2 1.3 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses 25.3 39.1 128 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Reconciliations between profit and underlying profit continued b.
The Group excludes from its underlying profit figures the amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
2017 2016 m m Amortisation of other intangible assets see note 20 108.2 114.7 Less amortisation of software and other intangible assets see note 20 14.7 16.1 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 93.5 98.6 c. IFRS 3 requires finished goods acquired in a business combination to be recognised at fair value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort.
Work in progress acquired in a business combination is recognised at fair value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for work still to be carried out.
The fair value of acquired inventory is thus significantly higher than the same items built post acquisition, the value of which includes no profit element.
The difference between the fair value of the inventory consumed and its cost is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures.
d. Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided that the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not merited.
The Groups underlying profit figures exclude amounts which would not have been recognised if hedge accounting had been applied.
Where interest rate derivatives qualify to be hedge accounted, any difference between the movement in fair value of the derivatives and in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings is excluded from underlying profit.
Where cross currency derivatives and treasury lock derivatives do not qualify to be hedge accounted, movements in fair value of the derivatives are excluded from underlying profit.
2017 2016 m m Movement in fair value of foreign currency forward contracts 73.8 48.0 Impact of retranslating net foreign currency assets and liabilities at spot rate 0.5 2.3 Movement in fair value of interest rate derivatives 8.1 3.8 Movement in fair value of fixed rate borrowings 6.8 0.8 Movement in fair value of cross currency derivatives 13.9 2.9 Movement in fair value of treasury lock derivative 0.5 8.6 Financial instruments gain loss 58.6 66.4 11.
Exceptional operating items Income statement Cash expenditure 2017 2016 2017 2016 Note m m m m Impairment loss arising from cancellation of Dassault Falcon 5X programme a 59.5 Site consolidations b 7.9 7.0 8.5 4.7 Integration of acquired businesses c 4.5 6.6 4.5 6.6 Business restructuring costs 2.7 5.7 0.8 6.2 Raw material supply issue 3.8 0.8 Total 74.6 15.5 13.8 18.3 a.
On 13 December 2017, Dassault Aviation announced the cancellation of its Falcon 5X programme.
The cancellation has resulted in a cost of 59.5m being recognised in the year, comprising an impairment loss of 54.4m in respect of capitalised development costs, an impairment loss of 1.5m in respect of programme participation costs and 3.6m in respect of the reduction of inventory to net realisable value see note 4. b.
In 2017, this relates principally to initial costs incurred in respect of the move to a new facility being constructed at Ansty Park in the West Midlands which will enable the Group to consolidate a range of manufacturing, engineering and support operations into a single centre of excellence.
In addition, it includes costs relating to the closure of the Groups control systems operations in Corona, California and transfer of its activities to two of the Groups other existing operations in California.
c. This relates to costs incurred in respect of the ongoing integration of the Advanced Composites and EDAC businesses acquired in November and December 2015 respectively and of Elite Aerospace acquired in March 2017.
The tax credit in respect of exceptional operating items is 25.9m 2016: 4.9m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 129 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 12.
Finance income 2017 2016 m m Interest on bank deposits 0.1 0.1 Unwinding of interest on other receivables see note 33 1.2 1.8 Other finance income 0.1 0.1 Finance income 1.4 2.0 13.
Finance costs 2017 2016 m m Interest on bank borrowings 2.2 7.0 Interest on senior notes 30.0 21.8 Interest on obligations under finance leases 1.2 1.1 Unwinding of discount on provisions see note 33 2.0 2.5 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 35 11.3 10.6 Amortisation of debt issue costs 0.9 1.2 Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets see note 19 4.4 4.0 Finance costs 43.2 40.2 14.
Tax 2017 2016 m m Current tax current year 27.5 26.2 Current tax adjustment in respect of prior years 4.2 1.6 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 7.5 1.7 Deferred tax impact of reduction in the US rate of federal corporate tax see note 10 122.6 Deferred tax effects of changes in other statutory tax rates 2.7 1.2 Deferred tax adjustment in respect of prior years 1.5 4.0 Tax credit charge 87.6 24.3 On 22 December 2017, the US government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act TCJA.
The TCJA makes substantial changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Among those changes is a significant reduction in the generally applicable US federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, with effect from 1 January 2018.
The Groups deferred tax balances relating to its US operations have been remeasured to reflect this rate reduction.
The impact of the rate reduction is a credit to the income statement of 122.6m, a charge to other comprehensive income of 11.7m in respect of retirement benefit obligations, a charge recognised directly in equity of 0.3m in respect of share-based payments and a corresponding reduction in deferred tax liabilities of 110.6m.
The Finance No 2 Act 2015, included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax in the UK from 20% to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 and to 18% with effect from 1 April 2020.
The Finance Act 2016, included legislation to further reduce the main rate of corporation tax in the UK to 17% from 1 April 2020.
As these changes were substantively enacted in prior years, they have had no significant impact on the tax charge for the current year.
Reconciliation of tax credit charge A reconciliation based on the weighted average tax rate applicable to the profits of the Groups consolidated businesses is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax at weighted average tax rate of 20.2% 2016: 27.0% 53.0 52.8 Effects of: Impact of reduction in the US rate of federal corporate tax see note 10 122.6 Changes in other statutory tax rates 2.7 1.2 Tax effect of share-based payments 1.1 0.8 Non taxable gain on disposal of businesses 0.4 7.9 Tax concessions 13.5 16.8 Tax credits and incentives 4.2 4.4 Unused amounts reversed Additional provisions in respect of historical tax uncertainties 4.1 3.1 Other permanent differences 3.1 1.9 Current tax adjustment in respect of prior years 4.2 1.6 Deferred tax adjustment in respect of prior years 1.5 4.0 Tax credit charge 87.6 24.3 Calculated as the weighted average tax rate applicable to profits of the Groups businesses in their respective countries in th e year.
It does not therefore reflect any changes in tax rates that have been substantively enacted, but are not applicable until future periods.
The sensitivity of the tax charge to changes in the tax rate is such that a one percentage point increase, or reduction, in the tax rate would cause the total taxation charge for 2017 to increase, or reduce respectively, by approximately 14.1m of which 11.5m arises from the impact of the change in tax rate on net deferred tax liabilities.
130 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Tax continued The tax reconciliation for 2017 includes 13.5m in respect of tax concessions in the UK and Switzerland which allow income to be taxed at beneficial rates, 4.2m in respect of tax credits and incentives in the UK and US for items such as research & development expenditure and unused amounts reversed of 4.1m in respect of various historical tax issues in the Group see note 4.
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 2017 2016 Before Tax After Before Tax After tax charge tax tax charge tax credit credit m m m m m m Current tax currency translation movements 161.6 2.8 164.4 310.9 3.5 307.4 Deferred tax currency translation movements 1.2 0.2 1.0 Deferred tax cash flow hedge movements 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 66.6 27.1 39.5 120.7 20.1 100.6 Other comprehensive expense income 95.2 29.9 125.1 191.2 16.5 207.7 Current tax 2.8 3.5 Deferred tax 27.1 20.0 Total 29.9 16.5 Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity 2017 2016 m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payment expense 0.3 0.2 Deferred tax charge credit relating to share-based payment expense 0.2 0.4 Total 0.1 0.6 15.
Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per ordinary share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
The weighted average number of shares excludes treasury shares and any shares bought by the Group and held during the year by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust see note 38.
The weighted average number of treasury shares excluded is Nil shares 2016: 0.2m shares and the weighted average number of own shares excluded is 2.4m shares 2016: 1.5m shares.
The calculation of diluted EPS adjusts the weighted average number of shares to reflect the assumption that all potentially dilutive ordinary shares convert.
For the Group, this means assuming all share awards in issue are exercised.
2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Profit Shares EPS Profit Shares EPS m Number m Pence m Number m Pence Basic EPS 350.0 774.2 45.2 171.2 774.7 22.1 Potential effect of dilutive ordinary shares 15.0 0.9 11.3 0.3 Diluted EPS 350.0 789.2 44.3 171.2 786.0 21.8 Profit for the year attributable to equity owners of the Company.
Underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares used in the calculation of basic EPS.
It is reconciled to basic EPS below: 2017 2016 Pence Pence Basic EPS 45.2 22.1 Adjust for effects of: Exceptional operating items 6.3 1.4 Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses 3.1 5.1 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 7.8 8.2 Disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations 0.4 Financial instruments 6.1 6.8 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 1.0 1.0 Impact of reduction in the US rate of federal corporate tax 15.8 Underlying basic EPS 35.3 34.8 Diluted underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS.
Diluted underlying EPS for the year is 34.6 pence 2016: 34.3 pence.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 131 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 16.
Dividends 2017 2016 m m In respect of earlier years 75.8 In respect of 2016: Interim of 4.80p per share 37.2 Final of 10.30p per share 79.6 In respect of 2017: Interim of 5.05p per share 39.0 Dividends paid in cash 118.6 113.0 A final dividend in respect of 2017 of 10.80p per share 2016: 10.30p, amounting to an estimated total final dividend of 83.9m 2016: 79.6m is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2018.
This dividend is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements as it has not been approved by the shareholders at the balance sheet date.
Related party transactions During the year, the Group made sales to the joint venture of 3.7m 2016: 3.4m and purchases from the joint venture of 0.4m 2016: 0.7m.
Amounts due from and to the joint venture at the balance sheet date are not significant.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
The remuneration of key management personnel of the Group, which is defined for 2017 as members of the Board and the Group Leadership Team, is set out below: 2017 2016 m m Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 11.7 11.3 Retirement benefit expense 0.2 0.3 Share-based payment expense 2.3 2.7 Total 14.2 14.3 Full details of all elements in the remuneration package of each director, together with directors share interests and share awards, are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 72 to 93 which forms part of these consolidated financial statements.
Goodwill 2017 2016 m m Cost at 1 January 2,095.7 1,815.5 Exchange rate adjustments 140.9 282.8 Business acquired see note 43 12.7 Businesses disposed see note 44 20.5 2.6 Cost at 31 December 1,947.0 2,095.7 No impairment charge is required in the year 2016: Nil and the cumulative impairment charge recognised to date is Nil 2016: Nil.
An analysis of goodwill by CGU or group of CGUs is shown below: 2017 2016 m m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS 766.5 830.7 Meggitt Control Systems MCS 464.5 486.1 Meggitt Polymers & Composites MPC Excluding EDAC & Advanced Composites 130.4 138.2 EDAC & Advanced Composites 226.7 241.7 Meggitt Sensing Systems MSS 234.6 264.8 Meggitt Training Systems MTS 77.1 84.2 Other 47.2 50.0 Total 1,947.0 2,095.7 Restated to reflect the changes in divisional structure as described in note 6.
132 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Goodwill continued For each CGU or group of CGUs, the Group has determined its recoverable amount from value in use calculations.
The value in use calculations are based on cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent budgets and plans for the next five years, as approved by management in December 2017.
Cash flows for periods beyond five years are extrapolated using estimated growth rates.
The resultant cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate appropriate to the relevant CGU or group of CGUs.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are as follows: Sales volumes over the five years covered by managements detailed plans These are based on management estimates for growth in civil aerospace OE, civil aerospace aftermarket, military and energy markets, and reflect the position each business has on individual aerospace and other programmes.
They are derived from industry forecasts for deliveries of large jets, regional aircraft and business jets: air traffic growth: military spending by the US DoD and other major governments: and oil prices.
The exposure of MABS, MCS, MPC and MSS to these markets, is set out in the Strategic report on pages 24 to 29.
MTS operates entirely within the military market.
The Groups medium term expectations for growth in each of these markets, is set out in the Strategic report on pages 22 to 24.
Selling prices and production cost changes over the five years covered by managements detailed plans These are based on contractual agreements with customers and suppliers: managements past experience and expectations of future market changes: and the continued maturity of the Meggitt Production System.
Growth rates used for periods beyond those covered by managements detailed budgets and plans Growth rates are derived from managements estimates which take into account the long-term nature of the industry in which each CGU or group of CGUs operates: external industry forecasts of long-term growth in the aerospace and defence sectors: the extent to which a CGU or group of CGUs has sole-source positions on platforms where it is able to share in a continuing stream of highly profitable aftermarket revenues: the maturity of the platforms it supplies: and the technological content of its products.
For the purpose of impairment testing, a conservative approach has been used and where the derived rate is higher than the long-term GDP growth rates for the principal countries in which the CGU or group of CGUs operates UK: 2.0% 2016: 2.1%, US: 2.3% 2016: 2.3%, the latter has been used.
Discount rates applied to future cash flows The Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC is used as the foundation for determining the discount rates to be applied.
The WACC is then adjusted to reflect risks specific to the CGU or group of CGUs not already reflected in its future cash flows.
The discount rates used for Other CGUs range from 9.1% to 12.0% 2016: 8.7% to 12.0%.
A sensitivity analysis is carried out at each level at which impairment testing is performed to determine the extent to which assumptions would need to change for the calculated recoverable amount from value in use, to fall below its carrying value of goodwill.
Management has concluded that no reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions used in the impairment model would result in a significant impairment charge being recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
The least headroom in percentage terms are in MABS, MTS and EDAC & Advanced Composites.
To require an impairment in the Group consolidated financial statements, one of the following would be required: MABS MTS EDAC & Advanced Composites Reduction in estimates of cash flows more than 36.6% 34.7% 44.5% Long-term growth rates a rate of decline more than 3.8% 7.0% 5.4% Discount rate applied to future cash flows 14.1% 17.4% 15.1% Headroom 1,026.5m 65.5m 317.3m Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 133 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 19.
Development costs and programme participation costs Development Programme costs participation costs m m At 1 January 2016 Cost 506.9 479.7 Accumulated amortisation 98.5 212.1 Net book amount 408.4 267.6 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 408.4 267.6 Exchange rate adjustments 68.8 41.4 Additions Internal development costs 72.4 Free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts 53.5 Cash payments 4.4 Funding from customers 2.8 Interest capitalised 4.0 Impairment loss 3.3 Amortisation 14.0 33.4 Net book amount 533.5 333.5 At 31 December 2016 Cost 657.1 609.1 Accumulated amortisation 123.6 275.6 Net book amount 533.5 333.5 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book amount 533.5 333.5 Exchange rate adjustments 35.9 23.4 Additions Internal development costs 61.3 Free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts 56.5 Cash payments 3.8 Funding from customers 3.6 Interest capitalised 4.4 Impairment loss 55.3 1.5 Amortisation 22.1 36.8 Net book amount 482.3 332.1 At 31 December 2017 Cost 669.5 627.7 Accumulated amortisation 187.2 295.6 Net book amount 482.3 332.1 Charged to net operating costs in respect of development costs and to cost of sales in respect of programme participation costs.
Of the 2017 impairment loss, 54.4m in respect of development costs and 1.5m in respect of programme participation costs have been charged to exceptional operating items following cancellation of the Dassault Falcon 5X programme see note 11.
The net book amount of development costs includes 205.1m 2016: 246.3m in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 14.7 years 2016: 14.6 years.
The net book amount of programme participation costs comprises 285.4m 2016: 283.4m in respect of free of charge deeply discounted manufactured parts and 46.7m 2016: 50.1m in respect of cash programme payments.
The net book amount of programme participation costs includes 294.3m 2016: 303.5m in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 8.6 years 2016: 9.2 years.
The programme with the largest capitalised balance is the Bombardier CSeries with a net book amount of 112.5m 2016: 108.0m, comprising development costs of 80.4m 2016: 85.5m and programme participation costs of 32.1m 2016: 22.5m.
Fleet volumes would need to fall to approximately 350 a reduction of 65% from management estimates, which are based on public forecasts from industry experts, without any mitigation actions taken by the Group, before any impairment would need to be recognised.
Interest has been capitalised using the average rate payable on the Groups floating rate borrowings of 2.0% 2016: 1.5%.
Tax relief claimed on interest capitalised in the year is 0.8m 2016: 0.8m.
134 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
The net book amount of customer relationships includes 251.2m 2016: 317.0m in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, 124.6m 2016: 147.1m in respect of Meggitt Polymers & Composites, 54.6m 2016: 57.4m in respect of Meggitt Control Systems and 39.0m 2016: 54.4m in respect of Meggitt Sensing Systems, which have estimated weighted average remaining lives of 6.0 years 2016: 7.0 years, 14.0 years 2016: 11.9 years, 7.0 years 2016: 8.0 years and 8.2 years 2016: 8.2 years respectively.
The net book amount of technology includes 50.9m 2016: 62.7m in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems and 39.3m 2016: 48.0m in respect of Meggitt Polymers & Composites which have estimated weighted average remaining lives of 6.2 years 2016: 7.0 years and 9.0 years 2016: 8.4 years respectively.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 135 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 21.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant, Total buildings equipment and vehicles m m m At 1 January 2016 Cost 197.4 466.3 663.7 Accumulated depreciation 66.8 308.1 374.9 Net book amount 130.6 158.2 288.8 Year ended 31 December 2016 Opening net book amount 130.6 158.2 288.8 Exchange rate adjustments 14.2 23.2 37.4 Businesses disposed 0.6 1.3 1.9 Additions 8.3 47.9 56.2 Disposals 1.3 1.0 2.3 Depreciation 7.9 33.4 41.3 Net book amount 143.3 193.6 336.9 At 31 December 2016 Cost 224.5 559.0 783.5 Accumulated depreciation 81.2 365.4 446.6 Net book amount 143.3 193.6 336.9 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book amount 143.3 193.6 336.9 Exchange rate adjustments 6.1 10.9 17.0 Business acquired see note 43 0.2 0.2 Businesses disposed see note 44 1.9 5.8 7.7 Additions 17.0 44.7 61.7 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale see note 23 1.3 4.3 5.6 Disposals 0.6 2.1 2.7 Impairment loss 2.0 2.0 Depreciation 8.7 32.2 40.9 Net book amount 141.7 181.2 322.9 At 31 December 2017 Cost 223.1 518.2 741.3 Accumulated depreciation 81.4 337.0 418.4 Net book amount 141.7 181.2 322.9 Charged to cost of sales.
The Groups obligations under finance leases see note 29 are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets, which have a carrying amount of 4.1m included within land and buildings 2016: 4.9m.
Investments The Groups investment in its joint venture, Parkway-HS, LLC is accounted for using the equity method and is stated as follows: 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 14.8 11.4 Exchange rate adjustments 1.3 2.2 Share of profit after tax 0.6 1.2 Dividends received 0.5 At 31 December 13.6 14.8 Summarised financial information for joint venture The information reflects amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint venture adjusted to reflect the Groups accounting policies and not the Groups share of those amounts unless otherwise stated.
136 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Investments continued Summarised statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 m m Revenue 16.5 20.8 Operating profit 1.1 1.8 Finance costs 0.1 0.1 Profit before tax 1.0 1.7 Tax 0.1 0.1 Profit after tax 0.9 1.6 Total comprehensive expense income from continuing operations 0.3 2.1 Summarised balance sheet At 31 December 2017 2017 2016 m m Property, plant and equipment 1.4 1.7 Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 0.1 Other current assets 5.9 6.3 Total current assets 6.6 6.4 Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 1.7 0.9 Other current liabilities 2.0 2.6 Total current liabilities 3.7 3.5 Net assets 4.3 4.6 Reconciliation of summarised financial information At 31 December 2017 2017 2016 m m Net assets at 1 January 4.6 2.5 Total comprehensive expense income 0.3 2.1 Net assets at 31 December 4.3 4.6 Groups interest in joint venture at 70% 3.0 3.2 Goodwill 10.6 11.6 Groups investment at 31 December 13.6 14.8 There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint venture.
Assets classified as held for sale The disposal of Linear Motion LLC for a consideration of USD 2.5m was agreed on 14 November 2017 subject to certain regulatory clearances being obtained.
The related assets have been classified as a disposal group held for sale and are presented separately at the balance sheet date together with directly associated liabilities.
An impairment loss of 14.2m see note 10 has been recognised against the carrying value of assets classified as held for sale to reduce them to their recoverable value.
Linear Motion LLC is reported within the Meggitt Equipment Group.
2017 Carrying Allocated Exchange At 31 value before impairment rate December classification loss adjustments as held for sale m m m m Other intangible assets see note 20 1.2 1.2 Property, plant and equipment see note 21 5.6 5.6 Inventories 12.6 7.4 0.1 5.1 Trade and other receivables 4.7 0.1 4.6 Assets classified as held for sale 24.1 14.2 0.2 9.7 Trade and other payables 4.7 0.1 4.6 Deferred tax liabilities see note 34 3.3 0.1 3.2 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 8.0 0.2 7.8 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 137 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 24.
Inventories 2017 2016 m m Contract costs incurred 43.7 40.3 Less progress billings 4.0 1.3 Net contract costs 39.7 39.0 Raw materials and bought-in components 133.3 170.3 Manufacturing work in progress 160.5 185.4 Finished goods and goods for resale 70.6 73.8 Total 404.1 468.5 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales is 1,176.4m 2016: 1,169.8m.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes 7.3m 2016: 5.0m in respect of write-downs of inventory to net realisable value of which 3.6m has been recognised as an exceptional operating item see note 11.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense has been reduced by 2.5m 2016: 4.3m in respect of the reversal of write-downs of inventory to net realisable value made in previous years.
Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 m m Trade receivables 320.1 334.1 Amounts recoverable on contracts 47.5 40.6 Prepayments and accrued income 18.1 21.6 Other receivables 90.6 96.6 Total 476.3 492.9 Less non-current portion: Other receivables 39.2 58.4 Non-current portion 39.2 58.4 Current portion 437.1 434.5 Other receivables includes 64.1m 2016: 77.4m in respect of amounts recoverable from insurers and other third parties principally relating to businesses sold by Whittaker Corporation prior to its acquisition by the Group of which 30.1m 2016: 21.7m is shown as current see note 33.
Trade receivables are stated after a provision for impairment of 4.5m 2016: 6.1m.
Other balances within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The provision for impairment against trade receivables is based on a specific risk assessment taking into account past default experience and is analysed as follows: 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 6.1 6.1 Exchange rate adjustments 0.4 0.7 Businesses disposed 0.2 Credit to income statement net operating costs 1.0 0.7 At 31 December 4.5 6.1 At 31 December 2017, trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts of 67.5m 2016: 57.1m are past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade and other receivables is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Up to 3 months overdue 55.2 49.2 Over 3 months overdue 12.3 7.9 Total 67.5 57.1 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the fair value of each class of receivable reported above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2017 2016 m m Sterling 69.3 71.7 US dollar 362.8 380.6 Euro 27.7 30.8 Other 16.5 9.8 Total 476.3 492.9 138 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and on hand 118.5 142.8 Short-term bank deposits 31.0 Total 118.5 173.8 Cash and cash equivalents are subject to interest at floating rates.
The credit quality of the financial institutions where cash and cash equivalents is held are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Moodys rating: Aaa 3.2 0.2 Aa 44.0 51.1 A 71.3 65.8 Baa 56.7 Total 118.5 173.8 27.
Trade and other payables current 2017 2016 m m Payments received on account 30.1 27.2 Trade payables 154.9 172.9 Social security and other taxes 10.2 10.9 Accrued expenses 83.9 81.9 Other payables 166.4 171.1 Total 445.5 464.0 28.
Trade and other payables non-current 2017 2016 m m Contingent consideration relating to acquired businesses 4.5 3.8 Other payables 1.0 1.2 Total 5.5 5.0 29.
Obligations under finance leases Minimum Present value lease payments of minimum lease payments 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: In one year or less 1.1 1.2 0.1 0.1 In more than one year but not more than five years 4.8 5.1 0.5 0.3 In more than five years 10.8 13.1 5.5 6.2 total 16.7 19.4 6.1 6.6 Less: future finance charges 10.6 12.8 Present value of lease obligations 6.1 6.6 Less non-current portion 6.0 6.5 Current portion 0.1 0.1 Obligations under finance leases are US dollar denominated.
The weighted average period to maturity is 13.0 years 2016: 14.0 years and the weighted average interest rate is 18.6% 2016: 18.6%.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 139 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 30.
Bank and other borrowings 2017 2016 m m Current Bank loans 62.1 0.3 Other loans 9.3 175.4 Total current 71.4 175.7 Non-current Bank loans 254.1 344.6 Other loans 751.7 826.0 Total non-current 1,005.8 1,170.6 Total 1,077.2 1,346.3 Analysis of bank and other borrowings repayable: In one year or less 71.4 175.7 In more than one year but not more than five years 562.4 577.0 In more than five years 443.4 593.6 Total 1,077.2 1,346.3 Analysis of bank and other borrowings: Drawn under committed facilities 995.7 1,317.2 Less unamortised debt issue costs 2.3 3.2 Fair value adjustment to fixed rate borrowings 12.4 19.2 Drawn under uncommitted facilities 61.7 0.8 Interest accruals 9.7 12.3 Total 1,077.2 1,346.3 Debt issue costs are amortised over the period of the facility to which they relate.
The Group has no secured borrowings.
The notes were in four tranches as follows: USD 200.0m carried an interest rate of 4.62% and were repaid in 2017: USD 125.0m carry an interest rate of 5.02% and are due for repayment in 2020: USD 150.0m carry an interest rate of 5.17% and are also due for repayment in 2020: and USD 125.0m carry an interest rate of 5.12% and are due for repayment in 2022.
The Group issued USD 600.0m of loan notes to private placement investors in 2016.
The notes are in two tranches as follows: USD 300.0m carry an interest rate of 3.31% and are due for repayment in 2023: and USD 300.0m carry an interest rate of 3.60% and are due for repayment in 2026.
In 2014, the Group secured a five-year USD 900.0m syndicated revolving credit facility which matures in 2021, following a one-year extension agreed during 2015 and a further one-year extension agreed during 2016.
During the year, the Group reduced the facility to USD 750.0m.
At 31 December 2017, the amounts drawn under the facility are 255.0m 2016: 346.0m represented by borrowings denominated in US dollars.
Borrowings under the facility are subject to interest at floating rates which are linked to LIBOR.
In 2016, the Group executed a commitment offer letter from Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation for the provision of a three-year 75.0m committed bilateral facility to commence between 1 September 2017 and 15 October 2017.
Prior to the facility commencing, the Group cancelled the commitment.
140 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Bank and other borrowings continued Committed facilities expire as follows: 2017 2016 Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn Total m m m m m m In one year or less 161.9 161.9 In more than one year but not more than five years 551.3 300.5 851.8 568.6 382.2 950.8 In more than five years 444.4 444.4 586.7 586.7 Total 995.7 300.5 1,296.2 1,317.2 382.2 1,699.4 The Group also has various uncommitted facilities with its relationship banks.
The fair value of bank and other borrowings is as follows: 2017 2016 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m Current 71.4 71.4 175.7 177.2 Non-current 1,005.8 1,001.9 1,170.6 1,160.2 Total 1,077.2 1,073.3 1,346.3 1,337.4 After taking account of financial derivatives that alter the interest basis of the financial liabilities entered into by the Group, the interest rate exposure on bank and other borrowings is: At 31 December 2017: Fixed rate borrowings Floating Fixed NonTotal Weighted Weighted interest average average bearing interest period rate for which rate is fixed m m m m % Years US dollar 162.5 645.4 807.9 Swiss franc 152.1 152.1 Euro 57.8 57.8 Sterling 61.7 61.7 Gross bank and other borrowings 224.2 855.3 1,079.5 2.7 4.2 Less unamortised debt issue costs 0.6 1.7 2.3 Bank and other borrowings 223.6 853.6 1,077.2 At 31 December 2016: Fixed rate borrowings Floating Fixed NonTotal Weighted Weighted interest average average bearing interest period rate for which rate is fixed m m m m % Years US dollar 346.9 787.0 1,133.9 Swiss franc 159.3 159.3 Euro 55.5 0.8 56.3 Gross bank and other borrowings 346.9 1,001.8 0.8 1,349.5 2.8 4.7 Less unamortised debt issue costs 1.2 2.0 3.2 Bank and other borrowings 345.7 999.8 0.8 1,346.3 The weighted average interest rate reflects the relative impact of interest rates based on the principal amounts and the duration of borrowings.
Hedges of net investments in foreign subsidiaries The Groups bank and other borrowings of 1,077.2m are designated as hedges of net investments in the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
The foreign exchange gain of 96.8m 2016: loss of 195.4m on retranslation of these borrowings is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 141 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 31.
Financial instruments At 31 December 2017: Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Non-current: Trade and other receivables see note 25 39.2 39.2 39.2 Derivative financial instruments see note 32 16.3 12.2 28.5 28.5 Current: Trade and other receivables 419.0 419.0 419.0 Derivative financial instruments see note 32 3.2 0.4 3.6 3.6 Cash and cash equivalents see note 26 118.5 118.5 118.5 Financial assets 19.5 12.6 576.7 608.8 608.8 Current: Trade and other payables 435.3 435.3 435.3 Derivative financial instruments see note 32 17.3 17.3 17.3 Obligations under finance leases see note 29 0.1 0.1 0.1 Bank and other borrowings see note 30 71.4 71.4 71.4 Non-current: Trade and other payables see note 28 5.5 5.5 5.5 Derivative financial instruments see note 32 14.6 14.6 14.6 Obligations under finance leases see note 29 6.0 6.0 6.0 Bank and other borrowings see note 30 235.2 770.6 1,005.8 1,001.9 Financial liabilities 267.1 1,288.9 1,556.0 1,552.1 Total 247.6 12.6 576.7 1,288.9 947.2 943.3 At 31 December 2016: Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Non-current: Trade and other receivables see note 25 58.4 58.4 58.4 Derivative financial instruments see note 32 2.3 19.5 21.8 21.8 Current: Trade and other receivables 412.9 412.9 412.9 Derivative financial instruments see note 32 2.3 1.9 4.2 4.2 Cash and cash equivalents see note 26 173.8 173.8 173.8 Financial assets 4.6 21.4 645.1 671.1 671.1 Current: Trade and other payables 453.1 453.1 453.1 Derivative financial instruments see note 32 31.2 31.2 31.2 Obligations under finance leases see note 29 0.1 0.1 0.1 Bank and other borrowings see note 30 83.3 92.4 175.7 177.2 Non-current: Trade and other payables see note 28 5.0 5.0 5.0 Derivative financial instruments see note 32 45.7 45.7 45.7 Obligations under finance leases see note 29 6.5 6.5 6.5 Bank and other borrowings see note 30 261.0 909.6 1,170.6 1,160.2 Financial liabilities 421.2 1,466.7 1,887.9 1,879.0 Total 416.6 21.4 645.1 1,466.7 1,216.8 1,207.9 Excludes prepayments and accrued income of 18.1m 2016: 21.6m see note 25.
Excludes social security and other taxes of 10.2m 2016: 10.9m see note 27.
142 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Financial instruments continued Fair value measurement and hierarchy For trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables, obligations under finance leases and the current element of floating rate bank and other borrowings, fair values approximate to book values due to the short maturity periods of these financial instruments.
For trade and other receivables, allowances are made within their book value for credit risk.
Derivative financial instruments measured at fair value, are classified as level 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, as they have been determined using significant inputs based on observable market data.
The fair values of interest rate derivatives have been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date and contractual interest rates.
The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts have been derived from forward exchange rates observable at the balance sheet date and contractual forward rates.
The fair values of cross currency derivatives have been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date, forward exchange rates observable at the balance sheet date and contractual interest and forward rates.
The non-current portion of bank and other borrowings measured at fair value, is classified as level 3 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, as it has been determined using significant inputs which are a mixture of those based on observable market data interest rate risk and those not based on observable market data credit risk.
The fair value attributable to interest rate risk has been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date and contractual interest rates, with the credit risk margin kept constant.
The fair value attributable to credit risk has been derived from quotes from lenders for borrowings of similar amounts and maturity periods.
The same methods of valuation have been used to derive the fair value of the current and non-current element of bank and other borrowings which are held at amortised cost, but for which fair values are provided in the table above.
There are no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy in the year.
Financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit and loss Cumulative unrealised changes in fair value of the current and non-current portions of bank and other borrowings arising from changes in credit risk are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Fair value at 1 January 1.0 3.3 Loss recognised in net operating costs 2.1 2.3 Fair value at 31 December 1.1 1.0 The difference between fair value and contractual amount at maturity of the current and non-current portion of bank and other borrowings is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Fair value 235.2 344.3 Difference between fair value and contractual amount at maturity 13.0 20.6 Contractual amount payable at maturity 222.2 323.7 Financial liabilities classified as level 3 in the hierarchy Changes in fair value are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Bank and other borrowings at fair value through profit and loss: At 1 January 344.3 290.8 Exchange rate adjustments 25.3 52.3 Settled upon maturity 76.1 Gain loss recognised in net operating costs see note 10 6.8 0.8 Gain loss recognised in net finance costs 0.9 0.4 At 31 December 235.2 344.3 The largest movement in credit spread seen in a six month period since inception of the borrowings is 70 basis points.
A 70 basis point movement in the credit spread used as an input in determining fair value at 31 December 2017, would impact net operating costs by approximately 5.0m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 143 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 32.
Derivative financial instruments At 31 December 2017: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swap cash flow hedge 118.5 0.4 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 222.2 12.2 Cross currency swaps not hedge accounted 241.0 12.0 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 326.1 331.3 19.5 19.9 Total 666.8 572.3 32.1 31.9 Less non-current portion: Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 222.2 12.2 Cross currency swaps not hedge accounted 57.8 6.1 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 233.8 184.1 16.3 8.5 Non-current portion 456.0 241.9 28.5 14.6 Current portion 210.8 330.4 3.6 17.3 At 31 December 2016: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swap cash flow hedge 129.5 0.5 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 323.7 20.9 Cross currency swaps not hedge accounted 214.7 1.9 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 88.4 687.2 2.7 76.9 Total 756.3 687.2 26.0 76.9 Less non-current portion: Interest rate swap cash flow hedge 129.5 0.5 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 242.8 19.0 Cross currency swaps not hedge accounted 159.2 0.4 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 69.5 456.0 1.9 45.7 Non-current portion 601.0 456.0 21.8 45.7 Current portion 155.3 231.2 4.2 31.2 Credit quality of derivative financial assets The credit quality of derivative financial assets is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Moodys rating: Aa 11.9 4.9 A 20.2 21.1 Total 32.1 26.0 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the fair value of the derivative financial instruments.
Interest rate swaps The total notional principal amount of outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2017 is 340.7m 2016: 453.2m, of which 118.5m will expire in 2018, 129.6m will expire in 2020 and 92.6m will expire in 2022.
The contracts are all denominated in US dollars.
Of the notional principal amount outstanding, 118.5m 2016: 129.5m has the economic effect of converting floating rate US dollar borrowings into fixed rate US dollar borrowings and 222.2m 2016: 323.7m has the economic effect of converting fixed rate US dollar borrowings into floating rate US dollar borrowings.
To the extent they continue to meet the criteria for hedge accounting, the floating rate to fixed rate swap contract is accounted for as a cash flow hedge and the fixed rate to floating rate swap contracts as fair value hedges.
Cross currency swaps The cross currency swaps have been used to synthetically convert US dollar denominated floating borrowings into Swiss franc and Euro denominated fixed borrowings to commercially hedge against Swiss franc and Euro denominated assets of foreign subsidiaries.
The cross currency swaps do not qualify to be hedge accounted.
144 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Derivative financial instruments continued Foreign currency forward contracts Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided that the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not merited.
Foreign currency forward contracts are analysed as follows: 2017 2017 2016 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value: US dollar Sterling forward sales 14.2 17.6 1.5 60.5 Forward sales denominated in other currencies 5.3 2.3 1.2 16.4 Total 19.5 19.9 2.7 76.9 33.
Provisions Provisions Environmental receivables Environmental Onerous Warranty Other Total contracts costs a a b c d m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 121.7 38.1 17.8 7.8 185.4 77.4 Exchange rate adjustments 9.9 1.6 1.0 0.2 12.7 5.4 Business acquired see note 43 0.1 0.1 Businesses disposed see note 44 0.3 0.3 Additional provision in year 9.9 2.9 9.0 4.3 26.1 9.8 Unused amounts reversed 9.9 1.3 2.7 13.9 Charge credit to net finance costs see notes 13 and 12 respectively 2.0 2.0 1.2 Utilised 23.8 9.3 5.3 1.6 40.0 18.9 At 31 December 2017 99.9 20.3 18.9 7.6 146.7 64.1 2017 2016 m m Current 64.2 53.6 Non-current 82.5 131.8 At 31 December 2017 146.7 185.4 Amounts in respect of environmental and other provisions have been recognised in net operating costs.
Amounts in respect of one rous contracts and warranty costs have been recognised in cost of sales.
Provision has been made for known exposures arising from environmental remediation at a number of sites see note 4.
The Groups operations and facilities are subject to laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and hazardous substances into the ground, air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials and other environmental matters.
Failure to comply with its obligations potentially exposes the Group to serious consequences, including fines, other sanctions and limitations on operations.
The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of current and former sites for which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under US law.
Provision has been made for the expected costs arising from these activities based on information currently available.
Provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next fifteen years and are discounted, where appropriate, using an appropriate discount rate.
A receivable has been established to the extent these costs are recoverable under the Groups environmental insurance policies or from other parties.
Movements in the receivable are shown in the table above see also note 25. b.
Provision has been made for estimated losses under certain trading contracts.
Provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next five years and are not discounted given the short period over which they will be utilised.
c. Provision has been made for product warranty claims.
Provisions ar e expected to be utilised over the next three years and are not discounted given the short period over which they will be utilised.
d. A number of asbestos related claims have been made against subsi diary companies of the Group.
To date, the amount connected with such claims in any year has not been material and many claims are covered fully or partly by existing insurance and indemnities.
There is a provision, included within other provisions, for certain claims which cannot be recovered from insurers.
Provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next ten years and are discounted, where appropriate, using a discount rate appropriate to each provision.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 145 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 34.
Deferred tax Movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, are as follows: Assets Liabilities Net Retirement Other Total Accelerated Intangible Total benefit deferred tax assets deferred obligations tax assets depreciation tax liabilities m m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 78.2 90.1 168.3 29.1 417.7 446.8 278.5 Exchange rate adjustments 12.2 14.1 26.3 4.5 74.1 78.6 52.3 Reclassifications 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Businesses disposed 0.2 0.2 0.2 Credit to income statement see note 14 2.8 6.4 3.6 1.6 1.7 0.1 3.5 Credit to other comprehensive income see note 14 20.1 0.1 20.2 0.2 0.2 20.0 Credit to equity see note 14 0.4 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2016 107.7 110.9 218.6 32.0 493.3 525.3 306.7 Exchange rate adjustments 4.7 6.6 11.3 2.3 32.1 34.4 23.1 Reclassifications 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.1 0.6 Business acquired see note 43 3.2 3.2 3.2 Businesses disposed see note 44 0.9 0.9 0.4 1.8 2.2 1.3 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale see note 23 3.3 3.3 3.3 Credit to income statement Impact of reduction in US federal corporate tax rate see note 14 6.9 26.3 33.2 8.7 147.1 155.8 122.6 Charge to income statement Other see note 14 5.9 24.4 30.3 2.3 24.7 27.0 3.3 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 27.1 27.1 27.1 Charge to equity see note 14 0.2 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2017 63.1 56.4 119.5 18.8 290.9 309.7 190.2 Includes balances arising from temporary differences in relation to provisions, accruals, share-based payments, finance costs and derivative financial instruments.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same tax authority.
The balances after allowing for such offsets are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Deferred tax assets 11.5 15.9 Deferred tax liabilities 201.7 322.6 Net balance at 31 December 190.2 306.7 Deferred tax liabilities all fall due after more than one year.
Deferred tax assets are analysed as follows: 2017 2016 m m To be recovered within one year 0.3 1.4 To be recovered after more than one year 11.2 14.5 Total 11.5 15.9 The Group has unrecognised tax losses of 24.3m 2016: 24.3m for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
No asset has been recognised in respect of these losses, as it is not regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets not recognised, would be recoverable in the event they reverse and suitable taxable profits are available.
There are no unremitted earnings in foreign subsidiaries that would give rise to a tax liability in the event of those subsidiaries remitting their earnings.
146 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Retirement benefit obligations Pension schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The nature of each scheme which has a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements is as follows: In the UK, the Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme which is closed to new members but open to future accrual for existing members: In the US, the Group operates five defined benefit schemes, all of which are closed to new members.
With two exceptions, these schemes are open to future accrual for existing members.
The schemes are a mixture of funded and unfunded schemes: and In Switzerland, the Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme which is open to new members and to future accrual.
The UK and US schemes provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The benefits provided depend on a members length of service.
For the majority of schemes, the benefits are also dependent on salary at retirement or average salary over employment in the final years leading up to retirement.
In the US, one scheme provides a fixed benefit for each year of service.
The Swiss scheme has many of the characteristics of a defined contribution scheme but provides for certain minimum benefits to be guaranteed to members.
For all funded schemes, benefit payments are made from funds administered by third parties unrelated to the Group.
The assets of such schemes are held in trust funds, or their equivalent, separate from the Groups finances.
The UK scheme is a registered scheme and subject to the statutory scheme-specific funding requirements outlined in UK legislation, including the payment of levies to the Pension Protection Fund.
It is established under trust and the responsibility for its governance lies with the trustees who also agree funding arrangements with the Group.
The funded US schemes are tax-qualified pension schemes regulated by the Pension Protection Act 2006 and are insured by the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation up to certain limits.
They are established under, and governed by, the US Employee Retirement Income Security Act 1974.
Meggitt is a named fiduciary with the authority to manage the operation of the US schemes.
The Swiss scheme is a tax qualified pension plan subject to the Swiss Federal Law on Occupational Retirement, Survivors and Disability Pension Plans which constitutes a legal framework setting out the minimum requirements for occupational pension plans.
Responsibility for its governance lies with a foundation, which is similar in nature to a UK trustee board.
For all unfunded schemes, benefit payments are made by the Group as obligations fall due.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes under which the Group has no further obligations once contributions have been paid.
Healthcare schemes The Group has two principal other post-retirement benefit schemes providing medical and life assurance benefits to certain employees, and former employees, of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Corporation and Meggitt Rockmart, Inc.
These schemes are unfunded and closed to new members.
Amounts recognised in the income statement 2017 2016 m m Total charge in respect of defined contribution pension schemes 29.2 30.2 Defined benefit pension schemes: Service cost 15.9 15.3 Past service credit 7.1 Curtailment gain 1.2 Administrative expenses borne directly by schemes 4.2 3.6 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 9.4 8.6 Total charge in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 22.4 26.3 Healthcare schemes: Service cost 0.7 0.9 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 1.9 2.0 Total charge in respect of healthcare schemes 2.6 2.9 Total charge 54.2 59.4 Of the total charge, 38.7m 2016: 45.2m is included in employee costs see note 9, of which 26.4m 2016: 26.7m has been recognised in cost of sales and 12.3m 2016: 18.5m in net operating costs.
Of the remaining charge, 4.2m 2016: 3.6m has been recognised in net operating costs in respect of scheme administration expenses and 11.3m 2016: 10.6m is recognised in finance costs see note 13.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 147 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 35.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Amounts recognised on the balance sheet 2017 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Present value of liabilities 814.5 439.1 49.8 1,303.4 Fair value of assets 673.6 321.7 995.3 Retirement benefit obligations 140.9 117.4 49.8 308.1 2016 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Present value of liabilities 829.1 483.6 54.5 1,367.2 Fair value of assets 619.5 333.0 952.5 Retirement benefit obligations 209.6 150.6 54.5 414.7 Of the total deficit of 308.1m 2016: 414.7m, 64.9m 2016: 70.7m is in respect of unfunded schemes.
Changes in the present value of retirement benefit obligations 2017 2016 Liabilities Assets Total Liabilities Assets Total m m m m m m At 1 January 1,367.2 952.5 414.7 1,078.6 794.1 284.5 Exchange rate adjustments 40.0 25.1 14.9 83.4 51.9 31.5 Service cost 16.6 16.6 16.2 16.2 Past service credit 7.1 7.1 Curtailment gain 1.2 1.2 Interest expense income see note 13 36.8 25.5 11.3 40.3 29.7 10.6 Contributions Group 50.1 50.1 51.2 51.2 Contributions Members 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 Benefits paid 52.1 52.1 46.4 46.4 Settlements 11.4 11.4 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations: Experience gain 5.9 5.9 11.7 11.7 Gain from change in demographic assumptions 17.9 17.9 12.2 12.2 Loss from change in financial assumptions 14.0 14.0 217.0 217.0 Return on schemes assets excluding amounts included in finance costs 56.8 56.8 72.4 72.4 Total remeasurement gain loss 9.8 56.8 66.6 193.1 72.4 120.7 Administrative expenses borne directly by schemes 4.2 4.2 3.6 3.6 At 31 December 1,303.4 995.3 308.1 1,367.2 952.5 414.7 148 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
The schemes have no investments in any assets of the Group.
Financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities 2017 2016 UK Overseas Overseas UK Overseas Overseas pension pension healthcare pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes scheme schemes schemes Discount rate 2.55% 3.55% 3.55% 2.65% 3.95% 3.95% Inflation rate 3.20% N A N A 3.30% N A N A Increases to deferred benefits during deferment 2.20% N A N A 2.30% N A N A Increases to pensions in payment 3.00% N A N A 3.20% N A N A Salary increases 4.20% 4.43% N A 4.30% 4.51% N A Provided in respect of the most significant overseas schemes.
To the extent not overridden by specific scheme rules.
In determining the fair value of scheme liabilities, the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality tables adjusted to reflect the characteristics of the scheme populations.
The Groups mortality assumptions in the UK are based on recent mortality investigations of Self Administered Pension Schemes adjusted to reflect the profile of the membership of the scheme, which include the results of an analysis of members used to support the 2015 triennial UK actuarial valuation.
Allowance has been made for rates of mortality to continue to fall at the rate of 1.25% per annum.
In the US, mortality assumptions are based on the RPH-2014 headcount weighted table, for schemes where benefits are not salarylinked, and the RP-2014 table for other schemes, with both tables projecting rates of mortality to fall using the 2017 Social Security Administrations Intermediate-Cost Projections scale.
2017 2016 UK Overseas UK Overseas scheme schemes scheme schemes Years Years Years Years Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 male 22.8-24.4 21.5-22.1 23.1-24.9 21.5-22.1 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 female 25.3-27.0 23.5-23.7 26.0-27.8 23.4-23.7 Member age 65 current life expectancy male 21.6-23.1 20.2-20.8 21.7-23.2 20.2-20.8 Member age 65 current life expectancy female 23.9-25.5 22.3-22.6 24.1-25.8 22.3-22.6 Provided in respect of the most significant overseas schemes.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 149 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 35.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Details on the sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in assumptions are provided below: The impact of a 50 basis point reduction in discount rate would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2017 to increase by approximately 123.0m.
The impact of a 10 basis point increase in inflation and salary inflation rates would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2017 to increase by approximately 17.0m.
The impact of assuming every scheme member were to live for an additional year would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2017 to increase by approximately 43.0m.
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in a single assumption while keeping all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method of calculating the defined benefit obligation has been used as when calculating the retirement benefit obligations recognised on the balance sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis are consistent with the previous year.
No change has been considered necessary to any sensitivity levels, given recent past experience.
Risks The Group is exposed to a number of risks arising from operating its defined benefit pension and healthcare schemes, the most significant of which are detailed below.
The Group has not changed the process used to manage defined benefit scheme risks during the year unless otherwise stated.
Asset volatility In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
To the extent the actual return on schemes assets is below this yield, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated by funded schemes investing in matching corporate bonds, such that changes in asset values are offset by similar changes in the value of scheme liabilities.
However, the Group also invests in other asset types such as equities, property, hedge funds, commodities and derivatives where movements in asset values may be uncorrelated to movements in the yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The Group believes that, due to the long-term nature of its scheme liabilities, it is appropriate to invest in assets which are expected to outperform corporate bonds over this timeframe.
Scheme assets are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
Both the UK and US schemes have purchased equity derivatives which enable the schemes to benefit from equity-like returns, subject to certain caps, whilst providing an element of protection against falls in equity markets.
These derivatives cover approximately 34% of the total equities held by the schemes and have an average remaining life of 2.3 years at 31 December 2017.
The Group actively monitors how the duration and expected yield of scheme assets match the expected cash outflows arising from its pension obligations.
For each UK and US funded scheme, there is a glide-path in place which provides, to the extent the funding position improves, for asset volatility to be reduced by increased investment in long-term index linked securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due.
Interest risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
If these yields fall, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated through the funded schemes investing in matching assets as described above.
The Group currently does not use derivatives to mitigate this risk.
Inflation risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, estimates are made as to the levels of salary inflation, increases in inflation that will apply to deferred benefits during deferment and pensions in payment, and healthcare cost inflation.
To the extent actual inflation exceeds these estimates, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
Salary inflation risk is partly mitigated in both the UK and US schemes by linking benefits in respect of future service to average salaries over a period of employment rather than final salary at retirement.
Benefits in respect of certain periods of past service are still linked to final salary at retirement.
In the UK, inflation risk in respect of deferred benefits and pensions in payment is mitigated by caps on the levels of inflation under the scheme rules.
In the US and Switzerland, the schemes provide for no inflation to be applied to benefits in deferment or retirement.
Exposure to inflation on US healthcare costs has been mitigated by freezing Group contributions to medical costs at 2011 cost levels.
Longevity risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, assumptions are made as to the life expectancy of members during employment and in retirement.
To the extent life expectancy exceeds these estimates, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is more significant in the UK plan, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
During 2017, a lump sum offer was made to certain former employees of the US funded schemes and 11.4m was paid to settle those liabilities.
Additionally, the Swiss scheme agreed changes to the rates at which benefits are payable.
These two changes, which reduce the Groups exposure to longevity risk in those schemes, resulted in a past service credit of 7.1m.
150 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Other information In the UK, the 2015 triennial actuarial valuation was completed during 2016.
At the date of the valuation, the deficit was measured for funding purposes at 249.4m.
The buy-out valuation at the same date, which assumed the Group were to transfer responsibility of the scheme to an insurance company, was measured at 544.1m.
The Group has no current plans to make such a transfer.
The Group agreed with the trustees, following this valuation, to make annual deficit reduction payments commencing in 2016 with the aim of eliminating the deficit by 2024.
Under this agreement, deficit payments in 2018 will be 29.1m and will increase by approximately 5% per annum until 2024.
The present value of future deficit payments agreed as part of the 2015 actuarial valuation exceeds the scheme accounting deficit at 31 December 2017 by approximately 53.0m however, such amounts would be recoverable by the Group under the scheme rules once the last member has died and accordingly no additional minimum funding liability arises.
In the US, deficit reduction payments are driven by regulations and provide for deficits to be eliminated over periods up to 15 years.
Absent any changes in legislation, deficit payments in 2018 are expected to be 8.2m and to then increase over the following four years to an estimated 14.0m by 2022.
Thereafter, annual payments are expected to remain relatively stable for the remainder of the recovery period.
The present values of deficit payments due under legislation do not exceed the schemes deficits at 31 December 2017 and accordingly no additional minimum funding liability arises.
The Swiss scheme has a surplus on a funding basis of approximately 19.0m.
Estimated total Group contributions expected to be paid to the schemes during 2018 are 55.6m.
The weighted average duration of the UK schemes defined benefit obligation is 19.7 years.
The weighted average duration of the overseas schemes defined benefit obligations is 12.2 years.
Share capital Issued share capital Ordinary Nominal Net shares of value consideration 5p each Number m m m Allotted and fully paid: At 1 January 2016 775.5 38.8 Issued on exercise of Sharesave awards 0.2 At 31 December 2016 775.7 38.8 Issued on exercise of Sharesave awards 0.7 At 31 December 2017 776.4 38.8 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 151 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 37.
Share-based payment The Group operates a number of share schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The total expense recognised in the income statement in respect of such schemes is 8.0m 2016: 8.0m see note 9.
The nature of each scheme which has a significant impact on the expense recognised is set out below.
Meggitt Long Term Incentive Plan 2014: Equity-settled Under the Meggitt Long Term Incentive Plan 2014, an annual award of shares may be made to certain senior executives.
The number of shares, if any, that an executive ultimately receives, depends on three performance conditions: An earnings per share EPS measure 33% of the award : A return on trading assets ROTA measure 33% of the award : and A strategic goals measure 33% of the award.
Each of the conditions is measured over a three-year performance period.
An expense of 5.8m 2016: 5.4m is recognised in the year.
An employee is generally entitled to a payment at the end of the vesting period, equivalent to dividends that would have been paid during the vesting period, on any shares that vest.
The fair value of the award made in 2017 has been estimated at the market price of the share on the date of grant, which was 442.10 pence 2016: 401.84 pence.
Movements in the number of outstanding shares that may potentially be released to employees are as follows: 2017 2016 Number of Number of shares shares under award under award outstanding outstanding m m At 1 January 13.7 8.0 Awarded 6.1 6.0 Exercised 0.5 Lapsed 4.1 0.3 At 31 December 15.2 13.7 At 31 December 2017, 0.2m of the shares under award are eligible for release.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan: Equity-settled Under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, an award of shares may be made to certain senior executives.
The number of shares, if any, that an executive ultimately receives, depends on the executive remaining in service for a specified period of time.
There are no other significant performance conditions.
An expense of 0.7m 2016: 1.8m is recognised in the year.
The fair value of the awards made in 2017 has been estimated at the market price of the share on the date of grant.
The average price at the date of grant was 480.00 pence 2016: 350.00 pence.
Movements in the number of outstanding shares that may potentially be released to employees are as follows: 2017 2016 Number of Number of shares shares under award under award outstanding outstanding m m At 1 January 0.7 0.5 Awarded 0.1 0.3 Exercised 0.5 0.1 At 31 December 0.3 0.7 At 31 December 2017, none of the shares under award are eligible for release.
Own shares Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the trust formed to acquire shares to be used to satisfy share options and awards under the employee share schemes as described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 72 to 93.
At 31 December 2017, the trust holds 4.2m ordinary shares 2016: 1.4m ordinary shares of which 3.8m are unallocated 2016: 1.3m, being retained by the trust for future use.
The balance is held for employees in a vested share account to satisfy particular awards which have fully vested.
All shares, whether or not allocated, are held for the benefit of employees.
The shares held at 31 December 2017 were purchased during 2015 and 2017 at a cost of 19.8m.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2017 is 20.1m 2016: 6.5m representing 0.54% of the issued share capital of the Company 2016: 0.18%.
152 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 39.
Contractual commitments Capital commitments 2017 2016 m m Contracted for but not incurred: Intangible assets 2.8 1.3 Property, plant and equipment 18.8 13.5 Total 21.6 14.8 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various factories, warehouses and offices under non-cancellable operating leases.
These leases have various lease periods, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
None of these terms represent unusual arrangements or create material onerous or beneficial rights or obligations.
Additionally the Group leases various items of plant and machinery under both cancellable and non-cancellable operating leases.
Expenditure on operating leases is charged to the income statement as incurred and is disclosed in note 8.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2017 2016 m m In one year or less 17.0 17.4 In more than one year but not more than five years 52.1 54.4 In more than five years 33.4 55.8 Total 102.5 127.6 Other financial commitments The Group enters into long-term arrangements with aircraft and original equipment manufacturers to design, develop and supply products to them for the life of the aircraft.
This represents a significant long-term financial commitment for the Group and requires the consideration of a number of uncertainties including the feasibility of the product and the ultimate commercial viability over a period which can extend over 40 years.
The directors are satisfied that, at this time, there are no significant contingent liabilities arising from these commitments.
Based on latest OE delivery forecasts from external agencies, the future estimated expenditure under contractual commitments to incur development costs and programme participation costs at 31 December 2017, which under the Groups current accounting polices would be expected to be recognised as intangible assets when incurred, are shown below.
Amounts are stated prior to the impact the adoption of IFRS 15 is expected to have on the future accounting for certain programme participation costs see note 2.
2017 2017 2016 2016 Development Programme Development Programme costs participation costs participation costs costs m m m m In one year or less 56.5 48.4 51.8 43.5 In more than one year but not more than five years 22.8 241.5 17.4 220.2 In more than five years 9.9 932.3 3.4 1,051.0 Total 89.2 1,222.2 72.6 1,314.7 40.
Contingent liabilities The Company has given guarantees in respect of credit facilities for certain of its subsidiaries, some property leases, other leasing arrangements and the performance by some current and former subsidiaries of certain contracts.
Also, there are similar guarantees given by certain other Group companies.
The directors do not believe that the effect of giving these guarantees will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings, actions and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 153 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 41.
Cash inflow from operations 2017 2016 m m Profit for the year 350.0 171.2 Adjustments for: Finance income see note 12 1.4 2.0 Finance costs see note 13 43.2 40.2 Tax see note 14 87.6 24.3 Depreciation see note 21 40.9 41.3 Amortisation see notes 19 and 20 167.1 162.1 Impairment loss see notes 19 and 21 58.8 3.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.8 1.4 Loss on disposal of software and other intangible assets 0.3 Gain on disposal of businesses see note 10 40.3 40.7 Impairment of assets classified as held for sale see note 10 14.2 Remeasurement of fair value of contingent consideration receivable see note 10 0.3 Financial instruments see note 10 58.6 66.4 Share of profit after tax of joint venture see note 22 0.6 1.2 Dividend income from joint venture see note 22 0.5 Retirement benefit obligation deficit payments 33.5 35.0 Share-based payment expense see note 37 8.0 8.0 Changes in working capital: Inventories 16.3 12.5 Trade and other receivables 22.7 31.3 Trade and other payables 8.4 11.3 Provisions 27.8 31.5 Cash inflow from operations 436.0 375.6 The Board uses free cash flow to monitor and measure the underlying trading cash performance of the Group.
It is reconciled to cash from operating activities below: 2017 2016 m m Cash inflow from operating activities 377.2 321.8 Add back cash outflow from business acquisition and disposal expenses 3.9 1.9 Capitalised development costs net of funding 57.7 69.6 Capitalised programme participation costs 59.0 57.5 Purchase of intangible assets 18.3 14.7 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 62.0 51.7 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.9 0.9 Free cash inflow 186.0 131.1 42.
Movements in net debt 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 1,179.1 1,051.2 Cash inflow from operating activities 377.2 321.8 Cash outflow from investing activities 130.8 130.9 Dividends paid to Companys shareholders see note 16 118.6 113.0 Purchase of own shares for employee share schemes 19.0 Net cash generated 108.8 77.9 Debt acquired with business see note 43 0.6 Debt disposed with businesses see note 44 0.8 Exchange rate adjustments 96.8 195.4 Other non-cash movements 8.5 10.4 At 31 December 964.8 1,179.1 154 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 42.
Movements in net debt continued Cash and cash Bank and Bank and Obligations Obligations Net debt equivalents other other under finance under finance borrowings: borrowings: leases: leases: Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 173.8 175.7 1,170.6 0.1 6.5 1,179.1 Exchange rate adjustments 4.8 12.7 88.4 0.5 96.8 Business acquired see note 43 0.5 0.6 0.1 Businesses disposed see note 44 3.2 0.1 0.7 2.4 Cash flows 47.8 88.1 71.2 111.5 Other non-cash movements 4.0 4.5 8.5 At 31 December 2017 118.5 71.4 1,005.8 0.1 6.0 964.8 Cash flows relating to bank and other borrowings are disclosed in the cash flow statement as proceeds from borrowings of 64.9m and repayments of borrowings of 224.2m.
43. Business combinations On 28 March 2017, the Group acquired 100% of the equity in Elite Aerospace, Inc. Elite for a consideration of USD 24.9m settled in cash.
Elite is a provider of maintenance, repair and overhaul services for thermal management components.
The acquisition increases the repair capabilities at the Groups Miami hub and further enhances the foundations from which the Group will accelerate aftermarket growth over the medium term.
Elite is reported within Meggitt Control Systems.
The provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities of Elite reflect changes made as necessary to align the accounting policies of the acquired business with those of the Group and to recognise intangible assets separately from goodwill.
Goodwill is attributable to the profitability of the acquired business and expected future synergies arising following acquisition.
The total amount of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition that is deductible for tax purposes is 17.8m.
The fair value of acquired net assets and consideration has been recognised as follows: Total m Goodwill see note 18 12.7 Other intangible assets see note 20 8.6 Property, plant and equipment see note 21 0.2 Inventories 1.4 Trade and other receivables current 1.7 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 Trade and other payables current 1.3 Bank and other borrowings current 0.6 Provisions - current see note 33 0.1 Deferred tax liabilities see note 34 3.2 Net assets 19.9 Net cash outflow in respect of the acquisition is as follows: 2017 m Cash consideration 19.9 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 0.5 Total 19.4 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 155 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 44. Business disposals On 16 June 2017, the Group collectively disposed of 100% of the equity in Piezotech LLC, Meggitt Maryland Inc, Piher Sensors & Controls SA and Piher International GmbH for a consideration of USD 108.7m.
The businesses operated as standalone entities providing a range of sensor and control technologies to customers in the industrial and automotive sectors where synergies with the rest of the Group were limited.
The businesses were not a major line of business or geographical area of operation of the Group.
Piezotech LLC and Meggitt Maryland Inc, were reported within Meggitt Sensing Systems and Piher Sensors & Controls SA and Piher International GmbH within the Meggitt Equipment Group.
The net assets of businesses disposed at the date of disposal is as follows: Total m Goodwill see note 18 20.5 Other intangible assets see note 20 12.7 Property, plant and equipment see note 21 7.7 Inventories 8.7 Trade and other receivables current 9.2 Cash and cash equivalents 3.2 Trade and other payables current 8.1 Current tax liabilities 0.1 Bank and other borrowings current 0.1 Provisions current see note 33 0.3 Deferred tax liabilities see note 34 1.3 Bank and other borrowings non-current 0.7 Net assets 51.4 Currency translation gain transferred from equity 8.6 Business disposal expenses 3.0 Working capital adjustment payable 0.5 Gain on disposal 39.1 Total consideration received in cash 85.4 Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Total consideration received in cash 85.4 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 3.2 Businesses disposed 82.2 Less: business disposal expenses paid 1.7 Total cash inflow 80.5 Total consideration received in respect of disposed businesses is as follows: Total m In respect of businesses disposed of in the year 82.2 In respect of a business disposed of in prior years 1.5 Total 83.7 The total gain recognised in respect of disposed businesses is as follows: Total m In respect of businesses disposed of in the year 39.1 In respect of a business disposed of in prior years 1.2 Total 40.3 45.
Events after the balance sheet date On 12 January 2018, the Group disposed of 100% of the equity in Aviation Mobility, LLC for an initial consideration of USD 14.5m which is subject to a customary adjustment for the working capital in the business at the date of disposal.
The net assets of Aviation Mobility, LLC which is part of Meggitt Control Systems, are not significant and accordingly the Group has not reclassified the assets as held for sale at 31 December 2017.
156 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 46.
Related undertakings In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings at 31 December 2017 is disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, undertakings listed below are registered at Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, Bournemouth International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, BH23 6EW, United Kingdom, and have a single class of ordinary share with 100% of the equity owned by the Group.
No subsidiary undertakings have been excluded from the consolidation.
4 Meggitt Erlanger, LLC USA Subsidiaries directly owned Subsidiaries indirectly owned 1400 Jamike Avenue, Erlanger, Kentucky 41018 2 Avica Limited ABL Systems USA Meggitt France SAS France 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 Dunlop Aerospace Limited 8 Chemin fide lEtang, BP 15, F-16730 FLEAC Aero-Tech Composites fide Mexico, S. fide R. L. Integrated Target Services Limited 3 Meggitt Hurn Limited fide C. V. Mexico KDG Holdings Limited Carretera a Zacatecas 5570-1, Parque Industrial Amistad Meggitt Korea Limited Sur, Saltillo, CA 250701 6 Meggitt Pamphill Limited Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. USA Aircraft Braking Systems Europe Limited 12838 Saticoy Street, North Hollywood, California 91605 Meggitt Wimborne Limited Aircraft Braking Systems Services Limited 6 Meggitt Orange County, Inc. USA Meggitt Engineering Limited 4 14600 Myford Road, Irvine, California 92606 Alston Properties LLC USA Meggitt International Holdings Limited 6 14600 Myford Road, Irvine, California 92606 Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. USA Meggitt Pension Trust Limited 669 Goodyear Street, Rockmart, Georgia 30153 Artus SAS France 6 37 Chemin du Champ des Martyrs, BP 20009, 49241 Negretti & Zambra Limited Meggitt San Diego, Inc. USA Avrill Cedex 10540 Heater Court, San Diego, California 92121 Negretti Limited Atlantic House Pension Trustee Limited Meggitt Sensorex SAS France 1 Phoenix Travel Dorset Limited 4 196 Rue Louis Rustin, BP 63108, F-74166 Archamps Cedex Aviation Mobility, LLC USA The Microsystems Group Limited 8041 Arrowridge Boulevard, Suite A, Charlotte, North Meggitt Shapwick Limited Carolina 28273 6 Meggitt Simi Valley, Inc. USA 5 BAJ Coatings Limited 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Bells Engineering Limited Meggitt Tarrant Limited 8 Bestobell Aviation Products Limited Meggitt Troy, Inc. USA 3 Industrial Drive, Troy, Indiana 47588 Bestobell Engineering Products Limited Meggitt UK Limited Bestobell Insulation Limited 8 Meggitt Vietnam Co. Limited Vietnam Bestobell Meterflow Limited #7-9, Road 16A, Industrial Zone 2 of Bienhoa, Bienhoa, Bestobell Mobrey Limited Dong Nai Province Bestobell Service Co Limited Meggitt Xiamen Sensors & Controls Co 9 Limited China Bestobell Sparling Limited No.
230 South 5 Gaoqi Road, Xiamen Area of China Fujian Cavehurst Finance Ireland Unlimited Pilot Free Trade Zone 361006 Company Ireland Meggitt A S Denmark Gorse Valley, Tipperkevin, Ballymore Eustace, Co Kildare Porthusvej 4, 3490 Kvistgaard Cavehurst Limited 10 Meggitt Acquisition Erlanger, Inc. USA 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Chempix Limited Meggitt Acquisition France SAS France Dunlop Aerospace Group Limited 37 Chemin du Champ des Martyrs, BP 20009, 49241 Dunlop Aerospace Holdings Limited Avrill Cedex Dunlop Aerospace Overseas Investments Meggitt Acquisition Limited Limited Meggitt Advanced Composites Limited Dunlop Aerospace Overseas Limited Meggitt Aerospace Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Dunlop Holdings Limited Singapore 1A Seletar Aerospace Link, Singapore 797552 Dunlop Limited Meggitt Aerospace Holdings Limited Elite Aerospace, Inc. USA 3151 Executive Way, Miramar, Florida 33025 Meggitt Aerospace Limited Endevco U. K. Limited Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Corporation 6 USA Endevco Vertriebs GmbH Germany 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 Kaiserleistrae 51, 63067 Offenbach Main 6 Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Kentucky Erlanger Acquisition Corporation USA 6 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Corporation USA 190 Corporate Drive, Danville, Kentucky 40422 Europeenne fide Conception dEtudes Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Queretaro, S. Technologiques SAS France 3 8 Chemin fide lEtang, BP 15, F-16730 FLEAC fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico Carretera Estatal 200 , KM 22 Evershed & Vignoles Limited 547 Interior A, Parque Aeroespacial, Queretaro, CP 76278 Fotomechanix Limited Meggitt Asia Pacific Pte Ltd Singapore 4 1A Seletar Aerospace Link, Singapore 797552 GB Aero Engine LLC USA 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Meggitt Brasil Solucoes fide Engenharia Ltda.
9 7 Heatric Limited Brazil Avenida Joo Cabral fide Mello Neto, No.
850, Suites 815 King Tool International Limited and 816, Barra da Tijuca, CEP 22.775-057, City and State 4 of Rio fide Janeiro Linear Motion LLC USA 628 N. Hamilton Street, Saginaw, Michigan 48602 6 Meggitt Defense Systems, Inc. USA 6 9801 Muirlands Boulevard, Irvine, California 92618 Meggitt Baltimore Inc. USA 3310 Carlins Park Drive, Baltimore, Maryland 21215 Meggitt Filtration & Transfer Limited Meggitt Canford Limited Meggitt Finance Beta Meggitt Colehill Limited Meggitt Finance Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 157 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 6 Meggitt Finance S. a. r. l Luxembourg Securaplane Technologies, Inc. USA Equity accounted investments 20 Rue des Peupliers, L-2328 12350 N. Vistoso Park Road, Oro Valley, Arizona 85755 15 Parkway-HS, LLC USA Meggitt GmbH Germany Serck Aviation Limited 1400 Jamike Avenue, Erlanger, Kaiserleistrae 51, 63067 Offenbach Main Kentucky 41018 Target Technology Petrel Limited 6 Meggitt GP Inc. USA Parkway-Hamilton Sundstrand Mexico S. Techniques et Fabrications Electroniques 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93065 16 fide R. L. fide C. V. Mexico SAS France Carretera 54 a Zacatecas SN, Colonia Las Teresitas, Meggitt Holdings France SNC France Zone Actisud, 18 rue Jean Perrin, 31100 Toulouse Saltillo, Coahuila, CP 25084 37 Chemin du Champ des Martyrs, BP 20009, 49241 The Rotameter Manufacturing Co Limited Avrill Cedex 6 Tri-scan Limited Meggitt Holdings USA Inc. USA 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93065 14 Valley Association Corporation USA Private company limited by 11 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 Meggitt India Pvt Limited India guarantee without share capital 901, Brigade Road, No.
HMT Main Road, HMT Vibro-Meter Limited Township, North Bangalore 560022 Meggitt Pension Plan Trustees Limited Vibro-Meter S. a. r. l Switzerland Meggitt International Limited Rte fide Moncor 4, PO Box 1616, CH-1701 Fribourg Meggitt Investments Limited Wallaby Grip NSW Pty Limited in 6 Meggitt-Oregon, Inc. USA liquidation Australia Registered charity 2010 Lafayette Avenue, McMinnville, Oregon 97128 Bradley Tonks, PKF Sydney, Level 8, 1 OConnell Street, Sydney, New South Wales 2000 Evershed & Ayrton Fund Meggitt Properties PLC Wallaby Grip Australia Pty Limited in 4 Meggitt Queretaro LLC USA liquidation Australia 1204 Massillon Road, Akron, Ohio 44306 Bradley Tonks, PKF Sydney, Level 8, 1 OConnell Street, 12 Meggitt SA Switzerland Sydney, New South Wales 2000 Rte fide Moncor 4, PO Box 1616, CH-1701 Fribourg Wallaby Grip B.
A. E. Pty Limited in 6 Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. USA liquidation Australia 1785 Voyager Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Bradley Tonks, PKF Sydney, Level 8, 1 OConnell Street, Sydney, New South Wales 2000 Meggitt Training Systems Quebec Inc. 6 Canada Wallaby Grip Industries Australia Pty Limited 6140 Henri Bourassa West, Montreal, Quebec, H4R3A6 in liquidation Australia Bradley Tonks, PKF Sydney, Level 8, 1 OConnell Street, Meggitt Training Systems Australia Pty Limited Sydney, New South Wales 2000 Australia Unit 2, 48 Conrad Place, Lavington, New South Wales 2641 Wallaby Grip Limited Meggitt Training Systems Europe BV The Whittaker Aerospace Netherlands 6 Whittaker Corporation USA Ringweistraat 7, 4181CL Waardenburg 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 6 Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. USA 6 Whittaker Development Co. USA 296 Brogdon Road, Suwanee, Georgia 30024 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Meggitt Training Systems Limited 6 Whittaker Ordnance, Inc. USA 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Meggitt Training Systems Pte Limited 6 Singapore Whittaker Technical Products, Inc. USA 1A Seletar Aerospace Link, Singapore 797552 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 4 Meggitt-USA Holdings LLC USA Zambra Legal Pty Limited Australia 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Suite 2, Level 11, 60 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, New South Wales 2000 6 Meggitt-USA Services, Inc. USA 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 6 Meggitt-USA, Inc. USA 1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 Notes 1 Ownership held as ordinary B shares 50%.
Metal Maps Limited 2 Ownership held as ordinary shares 50%.
Micro Metallic Limited 3 Ownership held as quota interest 100%.
Microponent Development Limited 4 Ownership held as membership interest 100%.
Microponents Plates Limited 5 Ownership held as deferred shares 55.55% Microponents Limited and ordinary shares 44.45%.
13 Miller Insulation & Engineering Limited 6 Ownership held as common stock 100%.
6 7 Ownership held as ordinary A shares 60% Nasco Aircraft Brake, Inc. USA and ordinary B shares 40%.
13300 Estrella Avenue, Gardena, California 90248 8 Ownership held as owners capital.
4 OECO, LLC USA 9 Ownership held as registered capital 100%.
4607 SE International Way, Milwaukie, Oregon 97222 10 Ownership held as class A shares 67.5%, 6 Pacific Scientific Company USA class B shares 12.5% and class C shares 1785 Voyager Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 20%.
6 Park Chemical Company USA 11 Ownership held as equity shares 100%.
1955 N. Surveyor Avenue, Simi Valley, California 93063 12 Ownership held as bearer shares 100%.
Piher International Limited 13 Registered at 125 West Regent Street, 6 Glasgow, Lanarkshire, G2 2SA, Scotland.
Precision Engine Controls Corporation USA 11661 Sorrento Valley Road, San Diego, California 92121 14 Ownership held as ordinary shares 33.33%.
15 Joint venture with Hamilton Sundstrand Precision Micro Limited Corporation ownership held as membership interest 70%.
16 Subsidiary of Parkway-HS, LLC ownership held as quota interest 99.97%.
