Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements development, performance and position are set out in the Overview and Strategic in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Report sections of the Annual Report on pages 253.
In particular, the current economic conditions continue to pose a number of risks and uncertainties for Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each the Group and these are set out in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 46. financial year.
The Directors have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The Financial Risk Management objectives and policies of the Group and the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
exposure of the Group to capital risk, credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk are discussed on pages 4950.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements entity capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs through the Groups unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of the cash resources and available credit facilities.
Committed term funding at 31 affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss for that year.
December 2017 was 2,638 million which is committed until October 2019 or beyond 2016: 1,903 million, described further in the Financial Review on In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: pages 3641. select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, which show that present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides the Group has sufficient financial resources.
On the basis of this review, and after relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational make judgements and estimates that are reasonable existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 5455 on the Group and the Companys financial position and financial performance of this Annual Report confirms that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: state whether the Group and the Company financial statements have been the Group and the Company financial statements, which have been prepared prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group taken as a whole: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue the report of the Directors contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review in business of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and in preparing the financial statements.
they consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are shareholders to assess the Group and the Companys performance, business sufficient to show and explain the Group and the Companys transactions and model and strategy.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial By Order of the Board statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006, other applicable laws and regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Lisa Condron and other irregularities.
Group Company Secretary 2 March 2018 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 99 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc Opinion are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the In our opinion: fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our London Stock Exchange Group plcs the Company, the Group consolidated audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit statement for the year then ended We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the have anything material to add or draw attention to: European Union EU the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 46 to 53 that describe the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the directors confirmation set out on pages 44 and 98 in the Annual Report the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group performance, solvency or liquidity financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation the directors statement set out on page 99 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of We have audited the financial statements of London Stock Exchange Group plc accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material which comprise: uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at Group Parent company least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements Consolidated balance sheet as at Balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the 31 December 2017 Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent Consolidated income statement for Cash flow statement for the year with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the year then ended then ended Consolidated statement of Statement of changes in equity for the directors explanation set out on page pages 44 and 98 in the Annual Report comprehensive income for the the year then ended as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they year then ended have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their Consolidated cash flow statement Related Notes 1 to 35 to the financial statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will for the year then ended statements, including a summary of be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the significant accounting policies period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention Consolidated statement of changes to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
in equity for the year then ended Related Notes 1 to 35 to the financial statements, including a summary of Overview of our audit approach significant accounting policies Risk that goodwill and purchased intangible assets Key audit matters may be impaired Risk of fraud in recognition of revenue in secondary capital The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is markets trading, revenue share for clearing arrangements, applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company and information services revenue accruals financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Risk that the acquisition of businesses was accounted Companies Act 2006. for incorrectly Risk that theimplementation of the Oracle finance system could lead to errors in data integrity, Basis for opinion accounting or financial reporting We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing We performed an audit of the complete financial Audit scope UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are information of 7 components and audit procedures further described in the Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial on specific balances for a further 18 components.
Statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and parent The components where we performed full and specific audit procedures accounted for approximately 94% of company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit the Groups revenue, pre-tax profit, adjusted pre-tax profit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils measure used to calculate materiality, and total assets.
FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have Overall Group materiality is 30.0 million which Materiality fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
represents 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit from continuing operations calculated by including the impact of the amortisation of purchased intangible We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate assets, but excluding other non-underlying items to provide a basis for our opinion.
as disclosed in Note 7 of the financial statements.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we 100 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Independent Auditors Report Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Risk that goodwill and purchased We confirmed our understanding of the impairment assessment No material issues were identified when intangible assets may be impaired process and evaluated the design effectiveness of key controls, executing the audit procedures over the risk concluding that a substantive audit approach should be adopted.
that goodwill and purchased intangible assets Balance of 4.2 billion, prior year may be impaired.
comparative 3.9 billion For 7 material cash generating units CGU, we examined the cash flow forecasts which support managements impairment assessment and We concluded that the WACC discount rates, The Group holds significant intangible tested compliance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of LTGR, customer retention rates and cash flow assets on its balance sheet, including Assets.
We assessed the reasonableness of those forecasts and the forecasts used by management in the goodwill, customer relationships, evidence supporting the underlying assumptions, by comparing to impairment assessment are within a reasonable brands, software licenses, and Board-approved budgets, considering prior periods budget accuracy, range as at 31 December 2017. intellectual property.
comparing the expected growth rates to relevant market expectations, and considering recent market developments including changes in We did not identify any additional factors that We have determined this to be a key tax rates.
would lead to a revision of the amortisation audit matter due to the quantum periods applied for purchased intangible assets.
of the intangible assets as at 31 In respect of purchased intangible assets, we tested managements December 2017, the involvement of assessment as to whether indicators of impairment exist as at the We concluded that the carrying value of goodwill significant judgement by management balance sheet date, by reference to factors specific to each class of and purchased intangible assets is materially on the valuation of the intangible assets.
Examples included customer retention rates within specific correct as at 31 December 2017. assets, and the risk of misstatement business lines and the current returns made on intellectual property.
either due to fraud or error.
We tested the weighted-average cost of capital WACC discount rates On an annual basis, management are assigned to each of the CGUs, as well as the long-term growth rates required to perform an impairment LTGR, with reference to our understanding of the business, assessment for goodwill, and to comparisons to other similar companies and broader market assess for indicators of impairment considerations.
in respect of other intangible assets.
Where indicators of impairment of The WACC discount rates and LTGR applied within each impairment other intangible assets are identified, model were critically assessed by EY valuation specialists, including a full impairment assessment is comparison to economic and industry forecasts where appropriate.
These assessments We considered evidence available to support the WACC discount rates involve significant management and LTGR used, and assessed consistency with findings from other judgement in the application of areas of the audit.
Together with EY valuation specialists, we assessed specific inputs in As a consequence, there is a greater the determination of the WACC discount rates, including the risk-free risk of misstatement in these rate, equity beta and market size premium, along with gearing and balances, either by fraud or error, cost of debt.
We benchmarked the inputs against observed risk rates including through the potential in the markets where the Group operates.
override of controls by management.
We also performed sensitivity analysis on the cash flow forecasts and Refer to the Report of the Audit key inputs including WACC discount rates, LTGR and customer Committee page 68 : Accounting retention rates to the impairment model, to understand the impact policies page 117 : and Notes 3 that reasonably possible changes to key assumptions would have on and 14 of the Financial Statements the overall carrying value of the goodwill and purchased intangible pages 125 and 134 to 135 assets at the balance sheet date.
The risk has neither increased nor We performed recalculation of the amortisation of purchased decreased in the current year.
intangible assets, and assessed that the amortisation policy had been appropriately applied.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the remaining amortisation period by comparing managements forecasts against historic data.
We also tested the reasonableness of the translation of non-Sterling balances into the Groups presentation currency.
In addition to the above procedures, we performed overall analytical procedures and journal entry testing in order to identify and test the risk of misstatement arising from management override of controls.
We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in 5 components, which covered 99.8% of the risk amount.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 101 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Risk of fraud in recognition No material issues were identified from the We confirmed our understanding of the secondary capital markets of revenue in secondary capital execution of our audit procedures over the risk trading, revenue share clearing arrangements and information markets trading, revenue share of fraud in recognition of revenue in secondary services revenue accruals processes.
On the secondary capital for clearing arrangements, capital markets trading, revenue share for markets trading process, we performed testing of the operating and information services clearing arrangements, and information services effectiveness of key controls in 1 full scope component and revenue accruals revenue accruals.
concluded that a substantive audit approach should be adopted in other components that are in scope.
We tested the operating Balance of 0.5 billion, prior year We concluded that the revenue recognised related effectiveness of key controls in revenue share clearing arrangement comparative 0.5 billion to secondary capital markets trading, revenue process.
We adopted a substantive audit approach in relation share for clearing arrangements, and information to the information services revenue accruals process.
Compensation tied to the performance services revenue accruals for the year ended of the entity may create an incentive 31 December 2017 is materially correct.
We considered whether the Groups revenue recognition policy is for management to manipulate results.
appropriate and in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
We performed testing on a sample basis to gain assurance that the We have determined this to be a key selected contracts were accounted for in accordance with the policy.
audit matter having identified 3 revenue streams with heightened We performed overall analytical procedures and journal entry testing risk of misstatement: in order to identify and test the risk of misstatement arising from management override of controls.
Secondary capital markets revenue for certain business lines involves We performed substantive and transactional testing, including the multiple pricing structures based assessment of debit balances, and unusual items and trends.
on product types, customer activity and volumes.
This complexity leads We also performed cut-off testing to gain assurance that revenue to a heightened risk that revenue was recognised in the correct period.
We selected transactions on may not be recognised appropriately, a sample basis before and after the year end to test the either as a result of fraud, or error.
Contracts relating to revenue sharing in respect of clearing arrangements, Secondary capital markets trading between the Groups central We increased our standard sample size for transactional testing by counterparty CCPs and third party at least 1.5 times according to our statistical sampling methodology, participants, in some cases, involve to respond to the risk of fraud.
We agreed a random selection of complex calculations to determine transactions back to supporting audit evidence, such as invoices and the appropriate level of revenue to cash receipts.
Where appropriate, we also recalculated the fee charged recognise within the Group.
and checked back to the pricing policy and relevant tariff schedule.
Information services revenue accruals can require estimation, We reconciled trading platform data to the general ledger and tested for instance based on prior billings material topside adjustments.
We also used analytical tools to identify outliers in high volumes of transactional data for focused follow-up testing.
This analysis As a consequence, there is a greater included comparing the fee per transaction to volume notional risk of misstatement in these traded and investigating any particularly high values which were balances, either by fraud or error, outliers to the overall population.
including through the potential override of controls by management.
Revenue share for clearing arrangements Refer to the Report of the Audit We tested revenue sharing calculations for all material business lines Committee page 68 : Accounting on a sample basis and checked for consistency with the underlying policies page 116 : and Note 4 contracts.
of the Financial Statements pages 125 to 127 We also used analytical tools in the analysis of the related revenue streams.
This included analysing monthly trading volumes and their The risk has neither increased nor correlation with monthly revenue recognised: any anomalies decreased in the current year.
Information services revenue accruals We selected a sample of revenue accruals using a lower testing threshold when compared to our standard transaction testing approach.
For the selected samples, we obtained supporting evidence, including customer input consent, for accrued amounts.
For revenue based on assets under management AUM, we tested the calculations on a sample basis and checked back to the supporting agreements.
We also validated the AUM used in the calculations to an independent third party source.
For Q4 accruals, we tested the appropriateness of using Q3 information for purposes of the year end accruals, and performed corroborative testing.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 8 components, which covered 99.3% of the risk amount.
102 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Independent Auditors Report Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Riskthat theacquisition We confirmed our understanding of the business acquisition process No material issues were identified from the of businesses was accounted and assessed the design effectiveness of key controls, concluding execution of our audit procedures over the for incorrectly that a substantive audit approach should be adopted.
risk that theacquisition of businesses was accounted for incorrectly.
Net assets acquired 355 million We inspected the final signed sale and purchase agreements SAPA and agreed the purchase consideration to the SAPA and We concluded that the accounting and the The Group undertook 2 significant the cash payments to the bank statements.
related disclosures of the acquisition of Mergent acquisitions in the current year: Inc. and The Yield Book and Citi Fixed Income We assessed the accounting of the business combinations for Indices are materially correct.
Mergent Inc. : and compliance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The Yield Book and Citi Fixed Income Indices.
We tested the book values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed, performing substantive audit procedures on material balances as at the acquisition date.
The acquired entities were consolidated into the Groups results Management engaged a third-party firm to perform the intangible from the date of acquisition.
assets fair value calculations and associated purchase price allocation.
We assessed the competency of the firm and, together We have determined this to be a with EY technical and valuation specialists, examined and challenged key audit matter due to the size of key inputs into the intangible assets fair value calculations and the acquisitions and the judgement purchase price allocations, including the deal model, deal value, involved in determining the fair the discount rates used, performance forecasts and the remaining value of the assets acquired and useful lives of the intangible assets identified.
Together with EY valuation specialists, we assessed the There is a risk of error in: appropriateness of the amounts recognised in respect of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, such as brands and customer The appropriate accounting for relationships, benchmarking to similar market participants.
the acquisitions, including the significant judgement involved Together with EY valuation and tax specialists, we assessed whether in the determination of goodwill the changes in the US tax law that occurred as part of the Tax Cuts and purchased intangible assets: and Jobs Act of 2017 had an impact on the valuation of amounts The completeness and accuracy of recognised as goodwill and purchased intangible assets as at the disclosures relating specifically to acquisition date.
the transactions, but also in respect of the impact of new business lines We assessed the appropriateness of tax-related components from on pre-existing disclosures: and the acquisitions, specifically over the opening balance sheet and The conversion of the financial purchase price allocations.
performance of the components from United States Generally We tested the presentation and disclosures in the financial statements.
Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP to IFRS as adopted by the EU.
We performed full scope audit procedures on the 2 material acquisitions completed in the year which covered 100% of the risk.
Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee page 68 : Accounting policies page 115 : and Note 30 of the Financial Statements pages 152 to 153 This is a new risk this year.
Our audit approach and assessment of key areas of audit focus changes in response to circumstances affecting the Group.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 103 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Risk that the implementation of We confirmed our understanding of the implementation of the Our testing identified exceptions in respect of the Oracle finance system could Oracle finance system, including confirming our understanding certain IT general controls: these exceptions have lead to errors in data integrity, of the relevant processes pre and post Oracle implementation.
been mitigated by testing relevant compensating accounting or financial reporting controls which were concluded as effective and by We assessed the following areas of the migration project: performing additional substantive audit procedures.
We have determined this to be a key As a result, we concluded that we are able to place audit matter as the implementation Governance verification of approvals at different stages of the reliance on the Oracle finance system.
of a new finance system could lead to project and meeting minute reviews: errors in data integrity, accounting or Data conversion evaluation of data migration and conversion We concluded that there were no material errors financial reporting.
procedures, and verification of approvals for data migration: in the financial statements as a result of the Migration procedures inspection of documentation for data implementation of the Oracle finance system The general ledger for LCH Group migration procedures, evaluation of migration plan and in respect of LCH Group excluding LCH S. A. excluding LCH S. A. was migrated execution against the plan: and LSEG US Holdco Inc. to Oracle in January 2017, whilst the System interface inspection of documentation around the general ledger for LSEG US Holdco Inc. process flows and understanding the data flows into Oracle: and was migrated in May 2017.
Access review inspection of documentation confirming initial load of users and testing of IT general controls over Refer to the Report of the Audit user administration processes.
We performed audit procedures over the migrated data in the The risk has neither increased nor new system to the data in the previous general ledgers, including: decreased in the current year.
Reconciliation of FY2017 opening balances to the audited FY2016 closing balances: Substantive testing of the data which was migrated into the new general ledger, including reconciliation of transactions listings from the new system with those from the previous general ledgers: and Testing of manual adjustments related to migration of the data including those related to duplication of data and its manual reversal.
We inspected the chart of accounts and validated the mapping from the legacy ledgers, to Oracle, as well as from Oracle to the Group consolidation tool.
We performed audit procedures in 2 full scope components that implemented the Oracle system during 2017.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to the risk that the divestment of the Russell Investment Management business was accounted for incorrectly.
This matter is not relevant in the current year as the divestment occurred in 2016.
104 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Independent Auditors Report An overview of the scope of our audit The remaining 63 components together represent less than 6% of the Groups Tailoring the scope revenue, pre-tax profit, adjusted pre-tax profit and total assets.
For these Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review and of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations, to respond to the Group.
Taken together, these enable us to form an opinion on the Group any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
We take into account the size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed environment, and other factors, such as recent Internal Audit findings, when by our audit teams.
assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
Pre-tax profit In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, 3% and to make sure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 88 reporting components of the Group, we 27% selected 25 components covering entities headquartered within the United Kingdom, United States of America, Italy, France and Sri Lanka, which represent Full the principal business units within the Group.
Specic Of the 25 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial Out of Scope information of 7 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 18 components specific 70% scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within each component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements, either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Adjusted pre-tax profit 6% Scope Procedures performed by Number of components Full Primary team 4 22% Full Component teams 3 Specific Primary team 17 Full Specific Component team 1 Total 25 Specic Out of Scope Details of the 4 components which were audited by component teams are set 72% out below: Component Headquartered location Scope Auditor London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy S. p. A. Italy Full EY Revenue 1 LSEG US Holdco Inc. United States of America Full EY 1% 6% LCH S. A. France Full EY and BDO Millennium Information Technologies Private Limited Sri Lanka Specific EY Full 1.
Some specific accounts within LSEG US Holdco Inc. were audited by the EY primary audit team Specic The components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 99% Out of Scope 2016: 99% of the Groups revenue, 97% 2016: 98% of the Groups pre-tax profit, 94% 2016: 99% of the Groups adjusted pre-tax profit measure used to calculate materiality, and 100% 2016: 100% of the Groups total assets.
93% For the current year, the full scope components contributed 93% 2016: 92% Total assets of the Groups revenue, 70% 2016: 92% of the Groups pre-tax profit, 72% 2016: 0% 89% of the Groups adjusted pre-tax profit measure used to calculate materiality, and 100% 2016: 99% of the Groups total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 6% 2016: 7% of the Groups revenue, 27% 2016: 6% of the Groups pre-tax profit, 22% 2016: 10% of the Groups Full adjusted pre-tax profit measure used to calculate materiality, and less than 1% Specic 2016: 1% of the Groups total assets.
The audit scope of these components may Out of Scope not have included testing of all significant accounts of the components but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
100% The percentages were calculated based on absolute values.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 105 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued Changes from the prior year Materiality In the prior year, we identified 7 full scope components.
As a result of the The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the divestment of the Russell Investment Management business in the prior year, aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of we separately scoped in LSEG US Holdco Inc. Index and LSEG US Holdco Inc. the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining Investment Management as 2 full scope components.
Clearnet the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
Group Limited was scoped in as 1 full scope component in the prior year: in the current year, we separated this into 2 full scope components: LCH Limited, We determined overall materiality for the Group to be 30.0 million 2016: 23.3 which was audited by the EY primary team, and LCH S. A. which was jointly million, which is 5% 2016: 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit from continuing audited by EY Paris and BDO Paris.
operations calculated by including the impact of the amortisation of purchased intangible assets, but excluding other non-underlying items as disclosed in Note 7 All other full scope components remained consistent.
Specific scope components of the financial statements.
have been re-assessed as the contribution of these smaller parts of the business to the Group financial statements varies each year.
We determined overall materiality for the parent company to be 5.6 million 2016: 4.8 million, which is based on the allocated performance materiality for Involvement with component teams purposes of the Group audit.
The allocated performance materiality is based on In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type the relative scale and risk of the parent company to the Group as a whole, and our of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the assessment of the risk of misstatement at the parent company.
primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms or other firms operating under our instruction.
We consider the basis of our materiality to be one of the important considerations for shareholders of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Of the 7 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 4 of Group.
It is linked to the key earnings measures discussed when the Group these directly by the primary audit team.
For the 3 full scope and 1 specific presents the financial results.
In addition to non-underlying items, the Group also scope components, where the work was performed by component auditors, we excludes amortisation of purchased intangibles to present adjusted operating determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that profit: this amount is not excluded from our materiality calculation.
sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
Our overall materiality threshold provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of been designed to make sure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits the principal further audit procedures.
Our evaluation of materiality requires professional locations of the Group.
judgement and necessarily takes into account qualitative as well as quantitative considerations implicit in the definition.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Senior Starting basis 564 million Statutory Auditor and or other senior members of the primary audit team to the following locations: Profit before tax from continuing operations Number Component Location Scope of visits London Stock Exchange Adjustments 33 million Group Holdings Italy S. p. A. Milan, Italy Full 2 Non-underlying items, mostly costs related to the LSEG US Holdco Inc. New York, acquisition of Mergent Inc. and The Yield Book and Citi United States of America Full 1 Fixed Income Indices, and the ongoing restructuring LCH S. A. Paris, France Full 2 of LCH and integration of the acquired businesses Millennium Information Technologies Private Limited Colombo, Sri Lanka Specific 1 Adjusted 597 million basis These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and Adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations, but any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with local management.
In including amortisation of purchased intangible assets addition, we participated in planning and closing meetings and reviewed selected key audit working papers.
The primary audit team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit and were Materiality Materiality of 30 million 5% of materiality basis responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and made adjustments based on the final financial performance of the Group.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
106 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Independent Auditors Report Performance materiality Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our was 50% 2016: 50% of our overall materiality, namely 15.0 million 2016: 11.7 knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage which is the If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, lowest in the range due to misstatements which were identified in the prior year we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the audit.
Our approach is designed to have a reasonable probability of ensuring that financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
the total of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed our If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material overall materiality of 30.0 million 2016: 23.3 million for the Group financial misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude as a whole, and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 99 the statement given In the current year, the performance materiality allocated to components was by the directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements as follows: taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Allocated performance information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, Component materiality business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge London Stock Exchange Group plc 2.8m obtained in the audit: or London Stock Exchange plc 7.7m Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 65 to 69 the section describing LCH Limited 6.3m the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters LCH S. A.
4.2m communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy S. p. A.
7.0m LSEG US Holdco, Inc. 5.6m Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set FTSE International Limited 6.3m out on pages 56, 62 to 63 and 95 the parts of the directors statement which All specific scope components 2.8m are required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2, do not properly disclose a Reporting threshold departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code An amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly trivial.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited We agreed with the Audit Committee that we report to them all uncorrected audit has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. differences in excess of 1.0 million 2016: 0.5 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This is In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: less than the threshold of 5% of overall materiality that we would typically use.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative with the financial statements: and considerations in forming our opinion.
the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report Matters on which we are required to report by exception set out on pages 2 to 99 including the Strategic Report including Highlights, In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent Chairmans statement, Chief Executives statement, What we do our business company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not model, Overview of Group activities, Market trends and our response, Strategy in identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
action, Segmental review, Our wider responsibility, Financial review, Risk management oversight, and Principal risks and uncertainties, Governance We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to information and disclosures including Board of Directors, Corporate Governance, which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Complying with the provisions of the Code, Report of the Nomination Committee, Report of the Audit Committee, Report of Risk Committee, Directors Remuneration adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or Report, Directors Report and Statement of Directors responsibilities, other than returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are by us: or responsible for the other information.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 107 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by considering the controls records and returns: or that the Group has established to address risks identified by the Group, or that otherwise seek to prevent, deter or detect fraud.
We also considered certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or performance and incentive plan targets and their potential to influence we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of investors.
Based on this understanding, we designed our audit procedures to identify Responsibilities of directors non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out above.
Our procedures involved inquiries of senior management, legal counsel, on page 99, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial the compliance officer and internal audit, review of significant correspondence statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for with regulatory bodies and minutes of meetings of the Board and Board such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the committees, and focused testing, as referred to in the Key Audit Matters preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, section above.
whether due to fraud or error.
The Group operates in the exchange and CCP industries which are regulated In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing environments.
As such, the Senior Statutory Auditor reviewed the experience the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going appropriate competence and capabilities, which included the use of experts concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the where appropriate.
Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic The FCA has regulatory oversight over London Stock Exchange plc and certain alternative but to do so.
other entities within the Group.
The Bank of England BOE supervises CCPs in the UK and therefore regulates LCH Limited.
In addition, local regulatory bodies in Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements France and Italy regulate other subsidiaries of the Group, including: LCH S. A. which Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial is regulated by LAutorit fide Contrle Prudentiel et fide Rsolution ACPR and US statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC : and Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Cassa or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable Di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CC&G and Monte Titoli S. p. A. which are all assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit regulated by Commissione Nazionale per la Societ e la Borsa and Banca dItalia.
conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be statements is located on the FRCs website at https: www.
uk expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these .
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable We were appointed by the Company on 12 June 2014 to audit the financial of detecting irregularities, including fraud statements for the 9 months period ended 31 December 2014 and subsequent The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient previous renewals and reappointments is 4 years, covering the 9 months appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement period ended 31 December 2014 to the year ended 31 December 2017. due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
of the Group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements.
We determined that the most significant are the UK Companies Act 2006, UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, The Financial Conduct Authoritys David Canning-Jones Senior Statutory Auditor FCA Listing Rules, other relevant FCA rules and regulations, and tax legislation for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor governed by HM Revenue and Customs.
London We understood how the Group complies with these legal and regulatory 2 March 2018 frameworks by making enquiries of senior management, including the Group 1.
T he maintenance and integrity of the London Stock Exchange Group plc website is the responsibility General Counsel, the Chief Risk Officer, the Head of Compliance and the Group of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters Head of Internal Audit.
We also reviewed significant correspondence between and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Group and regulatory bodies, reviewed minutes of the Board, Risk the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Committee and Executive Committee, and gained an understanding of the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions Groups approach to governance, demonstrated by the Boards approval of the Groups governance framework and the Boards review of the Groups risk management framework and internal control processes.
108 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017
