Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and accounting policies Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations The Groups consolidated and the Companys financial statements are prepared and are presented as a single amount as profit or loss after tax from discontinued in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS operations in the income statement.
Comparatives are also re-presented to Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European reclassify disposed businesses or held for sale businesses which meet the criteria Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to for discontinued operations.
Investments in subsidiary companies shares, loans and other contributions are The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial recognised at cost.
These are reviewed for impairment when events indicate the statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to carrying amount may not be recoverable and are accounted for in the Companys all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
financial statements at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as The Company is a public company, incorporated and domiciled in England modified by the revaluation of assets and liabilities held at fair value and on the and Wales.
The address of its registered office is 10 Paternoster Square, basis of the Groups accounting policies.
The Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated income Recent accounting developments statement.
This enables the Group to aid the readers understanding of its results The following amendments were endorsed by the EU during the year and have by presenting profit for the year before any non-underlying items.
Nonbeen adopted in these financial statements: underlying items include amortisation of purchased intangible assets and other Amendment to IAS 7, Statement of cash flows on changes in liabilities arising income or expenses not considered to drive the operating results of the Group.
from financing activities This is the profit measure used to calculate adjusted earnings per share.
Profit before non-underlying items is reconciled to profit before taxation on the face Amendment to IAS 12, Income taxes on recognition of deferred tax assets for of the income statement.
unrealised losses The Group consolidated income statement includes an additional performance The adoption of these standards did not have a material impact on the results measure for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Earnings before interest, tax, of the Group: however additional disclosure in relation to cash flows arising from depreciation and amortisation EBITDA is included on the face of the income financing activities is now provided in Note 28. statement to further assist users in understanding the financial performance of the Group.
The results for the year ended 31 December 2016 have been The following standards and interpretations were issued by the IASB and IFRIC, re-presented accordingly.
There is no impact on the previously reported profit for but have not been adopted either because they were not endorsed by the EU at the year as a result of this change.
Additionally, the Group consolidated financial 31 December 2017 or they are not yet mandatory and the Group has chosen not statements have changed its reporting from 1 decimal place to whole numbers.
The Group plans to adopt these standards and interpretations when they become effective.
The impact on the Groups financial statements of the Consolidation future standards, amendments and interpretations is still under review, and where The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the appropriate, a description of the impact of certain standards and amendments is Company and its subsidiary companies with all inter-company balances and provided below: transactions eliminated, together with the Groups attributable share of the results International accounting standards and interpretations Effective date of associates.
The results of subsidiary companies sold or acquired in the period Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based payment on classification are included in the income statement up to, or from, the date that control passes.
and measurement of share-based payment transactions 1 January 2018 Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns Amendment to IFRS 4, Insurance contracts regarding the from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns implementation of IFRS 9, Financial instruments 1 January 2018 through its power over the investee.
Amendments to IAS 40, Transfers of Investment Property 1 January 2018 IFRIC 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 1 January 2018 As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys income statement has not been included in these financial statements.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments on classification and measurement and amendments regarding general hedge accounting 1 January 2018 The acquisition of subsidiary companies is accounted for using the acquisition IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2018 method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair IFRS 16, Leases 1 January 2019 values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, IFRIC 23, Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Upon completion of the Groups fair value exercise, comparatives are revised up to 12 months after the acquisition date, for the final fair value IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers introduces new accounting adjustments.
Further details are provided in Note 30.
Adjustments to fair values principles for revenue recognition for all types of sales of goods or services.
It is include those made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
effective for the year ending 31 December 2018 and as a result the Group will adopt IFRS 15 in both the interim and annual 2018 financial statements.
IFRS 15 The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests provides a single, principles-based 5 step model to be applied to all sales through the economic entity model.
Transactions with non-controlling interests contracts, based on the transfer of control of goods and services to customers, are recognised in equity.
Where the non-controlling interest has an option to and replaces the separate models for goods, services and construction contracts dispose of their holding to the Group, then the amounts potentially due are currently included in IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IAS 18 Revenue.
recognised at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Based on the Groups assessment, the key areas of judgement expected on initial A disposal group qualifies as a discontinued operation if it is a component of an adoption of IFRS 15 are in relation to the timing of revenue recognition for services entity that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and: provided.
The Group continues to assess the impact the new standard will have on the Groups future financially reported position and performance.
a. represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective for the year ending 31 December 2018 b. is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of and will simplify the classification of financial assets for measurement purposes.
business or geographic area of operations: or The implementation of IFRS 9 will not have a significant impact on the results of the Group.
c. is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 115 IFRS 16 Leases is effective for the year ending 31 December 2019 and will require Revenue share expenses presented within cost of sales relate to arrangements all leases to be recognised on the balance sheet.
Currently, IAS 17 Leases only with customers where the revenue share payment is not limited to the amount requires leases categorised as finance leases to be recognised on the balance of revenues receivable from the specific customer.
sheet, with leases categorised as operating leases not recognised.
In broad terms, the impact will be to recognise a lease liability and corresponding asset for the Non-underlying items operating lease commitments set out in Note 31.
Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and are not considered to be incurred in the normal course of business are classified as Accounting policies non-underlying items on the face of the income statement within their relevant Income Statement category.
The separate reporting of these items together with amortisation of Revenue purchased intangible assets helps give an indication of the Groups sustainable Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable performance.
Non-underlying items are disclosed in Note 7. and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, value added tax and other sales related taxes.
Pension costs The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
Revenue is recognised in the period when the service or supply is provided.
The For the defined benefit schemes the service cost, representing benefits accruing sources of revenue are: to employees, is included as an operating expense.
The interest cost and expected return on plan assets is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined a.
Maintenance contracts, membership and other fees revenue is recognised benefit liability or asset at the start of each annual reporting period.
Actuarial on a straight-line basis over the period to which the fee relates: gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, changes in actuarial b.
Admission fees revenue is recognised at the time of admission to trading: assumptions or differences between actual and expected returns on assets are recognised at each period end net of tax in the statement of comprehensive c. Clearing fee income and rebates, together with other fee income and net income.
The net asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet comprises the settlement fees, are recognised on a transaction by transaction basis, or in difference between the present value of pension obligations and the fair value of cases where there is a fixed annual fee, monthly in arrears, in accordance scheme assets.
For defined contribution schemes, the expense is charged to the with the Groups fee scales: income statement as incurred.
d. Royalties revenue is recognised at the date at which they are earned or measurable with certainty: Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of equity settled share-based compensation plans e. IT products where there is no significant service obligation the revenue is for employees.
The charge to the income statement is determined by the fair recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the software or hardware by the value of the options granted or shares awarded at the date of grant and recognised customer, in other circumstances revenue is recognised on provision of over the relevant vesting period.
contracted services: f. IT solutions where software is sold requiring significant modification, Foreign currencies integration or customisation, the consideration is allocated between the The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the different elements on a fair value basis.
Revenue is recognised using a Companys presentation and functional currency.
Foreign currency transactions percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is determined by are converted into the functional currency using the rate ruling at the date of the reference to the costs incurred to date as a proportion of the total estimated transaction.
Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from the settlement of costs or the services performed to date as a percentage of total services to be such transactions and from the translation at year-end rates of monetary assets performed: and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities g. Software and Licence fees revenue is recognised when the performance held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of their fair value under the contract has occurred and the revenue has been earned: and gain or loss.
Exceptions to this are where the non-monetary items form part h. Other all other revenue is recognised in the month in which the service is of the net investment in a foreign operation or are designated as hedges of a provided.
The Borsa Italiana Group defers some of the income received from net investment, or as cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially cash trading and FTSE MIB futures trading and clearing.
This deferral results in recognised in equity.
revenues being recognised at the average price of transactions forecast for the full year, as pricing levels reduce during the year when incremental volume The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional targets are achieved.
currency different from the presentation currency are converted into the presentation currency as follows: Net treasury income a. assets and liabilities including goodwill, purchased intangible assets and fair Income recognised through the CCP clearing business includes net treasury value adjustments are converted at the closing balance sheet rate: income earned on margin and default funds, held as part of the risk management process, and is shown separately from the Group revenues.
Net treasury income is b. income and expenses are translated and recorded in the income statement the result of interest earned on cash assets lodged with the clearing house, less at the rate prevailing at the date of the transaction: and interest paid to the members on their initial margin and default fund c. all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component contributions.
Net treasury income is shown separately on the face of the income of equity.
statement to distinguish this income stream from revenues arising from the Groups other activities and provides the reader with a greater understanding of On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net the operating activities of the Group.
Where negative interest rates apply, the investment in foreign operations, and of borrowing and other currency Group recognises interest paid on cash assets as a net treasury expense and instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders interest received on clearing members margin as net treasury income.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement Cost of sales as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Cost of sales comprises data and licence fees, data feed costs, expenses incurred in respect of revenue share arrangements and costs incurred in the MillenniumIT Finance income and expense business that are directly attributable to the construction and delivery of Finance income and expense comprise interest earned on cash deposited with customers goods or services, and any other costs linked and directly incurred to financial counterparties and interest paid on borrowings which reflect the agreed generate revenues and provide services to customers.
market-based or contractual rate for each transaction undertaken during the financial period, and calculated using the effective interest rate method.
116 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements In conditions where negative interest rates apply, the Group recognises interest On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets and paid on cash deposits as an expense and interest received on liabilities as income.
These may include brand names, customer and supplier relationships, software licences and intellectual property, all of which are recorded Recurring fees and charges levied on committed bank facilities, the cash as intangible assets and held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
These assets management transactions and the payment services provided by the Groups are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives which are as banks, are charged to the income statement as accrued.
Credit facility follows: arrangement fees are capitalised and then amortised back to the income a.
Customer and supplier relationships 2 to 25 years material assets are statement over the term of the facility subject to projected utilisation.
Fees and amortised over a life exceeding 15 years : charges are included within other finance costs.
Brand names 10 to 25 years material assets are amortised over a life of Fair value gains and losses on financial instruments include the movement in the 25 years : and market valuations of derivative instruments held as fair value hedges.
c. Software licences and intellectual property 2 to 25 years the majority of material assets are amortised over a life not exceeding 5 years.
Balance Sheet Property, plant and equipment The useful economic lives are based on managements best estimates such as Property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements at cost attrition rates on customer relationships, product upgrade cycles for software and less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
technology assets, market participant perspective for brands and pace of change of regulation for business.
Freehold buildings, fixed plant and plant and equipment are depreciated to residual value on a straight line basis over the estimated useful Third party software costs for the development and implementation of systems economic lives of the assets which are as follows: which enhance the services provided by the Group are capitalised and amortised a. Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years: over their estimated useful economic lives of 3 to 5 years.
Fixed plant 3 to 20 years: and Internal product development expenditure is capitalised if the costs can be c. Plant and equipment 3 to 15 years.
reliably measured, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient Leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and depreciated to resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset.
The assets are residual value over the shorter of the period of the lease or the useful economic life recorded at cost including labour, directly attributable costs and any third party of the asset.
expenses, and amortised over their useful economic lives of 3 to 7 years.
Investment in associates Intangible assets are assessed for any indicators of impairment at each balance An associate is a company over which the Group has significant influence.
Where indicators of impairment for a particular intangible asset are Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy identified, a full impairment assessment is performed, with any diminution in value decisions of the company, but is not control nor joint control over those policies.
recognised in the income statement.
For assets with an indefinite useful life a full The Groups investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
impairment assessment is performed annually.
When performing any impairment assessment, in addition to considering matters particular to the relevant Group The Company accounts for its investments in associates at cost, less any business area, management evaluates the overall value of the asset from the impairments recognised through the income statement.
Accordingly, any reduction in value recorded represents the Groups view of the market fair value of the intangible asset.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are Current and non-current classification retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under Current assets include assets held primarily for trading purposes, cash and cash operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
equivalents, and assets expected to be realised within 1 year from the reporting Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease.
date, or intended for trade or consumption and realised in the course of the Groups operating cycle.
All other assets are classified as non-current assets.
The Group leases certain plant and equipment and licences where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
These are classified as finance Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading purposes, liabilities leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower expected to be settled in the course of the Groups operating cycle and those of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum liabilities due within 1 year from the reporting date.
All other liabilities are lease payments.
Each lease payment is apportioned between the finance charge and the liability Current and deferred taxation so as to achieve a constant interest rate on the finance balance outstanding.
Plant The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Intangible assets Full provision is made, using the liability method, for temporary differences Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation is determined using tax rates that interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired are substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of when the asset is realised or liability settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has the extent it is probable that they will be recoverable against future taxable profits.
correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the Financial assets and liabilities acquisition date.
If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value of Financial assets and liabilities non-CCP businesses net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value recognised in profit or loss.
through profit or loss, available for sale or loans and receivables.
The classification of the Groups financial assets depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 117 a.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss d. Other financial assets at fair value Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for These represent bond securities in which the CCPs invest to hold their significant liquidity purposes that are initially recognised at fair value and any subsequent asset balances securely.
These are initially recognised at fair value and are changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income statement.
These subsequently marked to market.
Some bonds are treated as fair value through the assets are financial instruments not designated as hedges.
profit or loss, and some are treated as fair value through equity.
The classification of each bond depends on the investment intention when the bond is acquired.
Available for sale financial assets Investments other than term deposits and interests in joint ventures, associates e. Cash and cash equivalents restricted and subsidiary companies are designated as available for sale and are recorded These include amounts received from clearing members to cover initial and on trade date at fair value plus transaction costs, with subsequent changes in fair variation margins and default fund contributions that are not invested in bonds value recognised in equity.
Cumulative fair value gains or losses on an asset are and are deposited with banks, including central banks.
Such amounts are initially recycled through the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
Assets recognised at fair value and are subsequently recognised at amortised cost using such as shares in clearing and payment transmission operations and long-term the effective interest method.
equity investments that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures are usually classified as available for sale.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised c. Loans and receivables amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or settle the liability simultaneously.
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
They are included in Fair value measurement current assets, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months after the All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured are categorised within the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
fair value hierarchy which is described in detail in Note 19.
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash-flows from the For assets and liabilities that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the assets has expired, or has been transferred, and the Group has transferred Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
by re-assessing categorisation at each balance sheet date.
d. Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Financial liabilities are classified at initial recognition as either financial liabilities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is at fair value through profit or loss or financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Financial entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance liabilities at fair value through profit and loss include CCP financial liabilities see sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on below and other non-current liabilities.
Financial liabilities at amortised cost whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so the include trade and other payables, borrowings and provisions.
nature of the item being hedged.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities at amortised cost are measured The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging interest rate risk using the effective interest rate method, with gains and losses recognised in finance on borrowings.
Any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement within income and expense respectively.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the finance expense.
obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
The Group designates as cash flow hedges both foreign currency derivatives and Financial assets and liabilities of the central counterparty CCP and hedges of interest rate movements associated with highly probable forecast clearing businesses transactions.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective The Group has adopted the settlement date as the reference date for recognising portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
financial assets and liabilities in the CCP businesses.
The Group hedges a proportion of its net investment in its Italian companies by a.
Derivative or equity trading assets and liabilities designating Euro borrowings as a net investment hedge.
These transactions are initially recorded at fair value, and are subsequently marked to market every day with the movement recognised in the income In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a transaction must meet strict criteria statement.
Since the asset and liability positions of the CCP are matched, the as regards documentation, effectiveness, probability of occurrence and reliability same amount is recorded for both the assets and liabilities and no net fair value of measurement.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging b. Repurchase transactions repos trading assets and liabilities transactions.
Effectiveness testing is conducted at each reporting date and at the These balances represent repurchase transactions repos novated by clearing commencement and conclusion of any hedge in order to verify that the hedge members to the Groups clearing and guarantee service.
They represent the value continues to satisfy all the criteria for hedge accounting to be maintained.
The of transactions already settled spot and not yet settled at term.
These transactions ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
are all initially recognised at fair value and are either revalued through profit or loss at fair value or are subsequently measured at amortised cost, depending on the Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the terms and conditions set out the Rulebook of the CCP business.
period when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or is c. Other receivables from and payables to clearing members and default funds sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any These comprise accounts receivable and payable deriving from the trading cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is activities of clearing members.
They mainly represent amounts to be received or recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income paid in relation to initial and variation margin calls, option premiums, securities as statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the collateral and default fund contributions and are initially recorded at fair value.
cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to They are generally settled on the next day and, accordingly, are not discounted the income statement.
118 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Commitments to purchase non-controlling interests Property provisions are made in the financial statements at the lower of the Where the Group has granted put options to non-controlling interest shareholders, cost of fulfilling lease commitments for property space surplus to business these are treated as liabilities as the Group has no control over whether these requirements after taking into account income from sub-letting, and any options are exercised or not.
The amounts due are recognised at fair value and are compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil the lease commitments.
revalued on each balance sheet date.
When the liability is recognised initially, the redemption amount is reclassified from non-controlling interests.
The changes in All provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement.
When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the the measurement of the liability that do not change the relative interests in the passage of time is recognised as a finance expense.
subsidiary company that are held by the parent and the non-controlling interest shareholder and therefore are not equity transactions.
Equity and related items Share capital Trade and other receivables The share capital of the Company includes balances relating to the Companys Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are initially recognised at their ordinary equity shares, own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, less any provisions for treasury shares held by the Company.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts When the Company issues new shares to the Employee Benefit Trust at par, the due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial share capital of the Company is increased by the par value of these own shares, difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or will and a corresponding deduction or debit is recorded to the employee share be subject to a financial reorganisation or default on, or be delinquent on, its scheme reserves within retained earnings.
payment obligations are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets From time to time, the Company may also issue new shares to the Employee carrying amount and the present value of the portion deemed recoverable.
The Benefit Trust to satisfy vesting of specific employee share schemes.
These shares carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account may be issued at a subscription price above par value, reflecting the option cost and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent payable by the participant in the employee share scheme.
In such instances, the recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the income statement.
share capital of the Company is increased by the par value of these own shares Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured and the difference between the subscription price and the par value of the own at amortised cost.
share is recorded in share premium.
A corresponding deduction or debit is recognised in the employee share scheme reserves within retained earnings.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, short-term deposits and Shares reacquired by the Company from the open market as part of share investments in money market funds and other instruments and structures that buyback programmes are referred to as treasury shares and are held by the are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to insignificant Company.
The consideration payable is deducted from retained earnings.
The par value of the treasury shares is then recorded as a transfer from the Assets and liabilities held for sale Companys ordinary equity shares to treasury shares within share capital.
Assets and liabilities are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is No gain or loss is recognised by the Company in the income statement on the considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Companys own shares held by the and fair value less costs to sell.
Employee Benefit Trust and treasury shares.
Borrowings Dividend distributions Borrowings are initially recorded at the fair value of amounts received, net of direct Dividend distributions to the Companys equity holders are recognised as a issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees.
Subsequently, liability in the Group financial statements in the period in which the dividends are these liabilities are carried at amortised cost, and interest is charged to the approved by the Companys shareholders.
The Group maintains a sustainable income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest progressive dividend policy.
The interim dividend will generally be payable each rate method.
Similarly direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront year in September and final dividend in May.
The Groups dividend policy facility fees are charged to the income statement over the period of the determines that the interim dividend is calculated as one-third of the prior full borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Preference shares Preference shares or components of preference shares are classified on initial recognition as a financial liability or equity based on the terms of the contract.
They are classified as a financial liability if the terms impose a contractual obligation to deliver cash.
Provisions A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision shall be the present value of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, i. e. the present value of the amount that the Group would rationally pay to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date or to transfer it to a third party.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 119 2.
Financial risk management The Group seeks to protect its financial performance and the value of its business from exposure to capital, credit, concentration, country, liquidity, settlement, custodial and market including foreign exchange, cash flow and fair value interest rate risks.
The Groups financial risk management approach is not speculative and adopts a 3 lines of defence model.
It is performed both at a Group level, where the treasury function identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks from a Group perspective and also locally, where operating units manage their regulatory and operational risks.
This includes clearing operations at the Groups CCPs at LCH Group and CC&G that adhere to local regulation and operate under approved risk and investment policies.
The Group Chief Risk Officers team provides assurance that the governance and operational controls are effective to manage risks within the Board approved risk appetite, supporting a robust Group risk management framework.
The Financial Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Group Executive Committee and chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets monthly to oversee the consolidated financial risks of the Group.
In addition, the Treasury Committee, a sub-committee of the Financial Risk Committee which is also chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets regularly to monitor the management of, and controls around foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and concentration risks and the investment of excess liquidity in addition to its oversight of the Groups funding arrangements.
Both committees provide the Groups senior management with assurance that the treasury and risk operations are performed in accordance with Group Board approved policies and procedures.
Regular updates, on a range of key criteria as well as new developments, are provided through the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework to the Group Risk Committee.
See Risk Management Oversight on pages 42 to 45, for further detail on the Groups risk framework.
On 23 June 2016 the UK voted to exit the EU.
The UK companies within the Group, as members of the EU or European Economic Area EEA, rely on a number of rights that are available to them to conduct business with other EU or EEA members.
This includes, without limitation, the right for UK CCPs to offer clearing services to EU regulated firms under EMIR, and the right for UK trading venues to offer services to members in the EU or EEA.
The Group companies have analysed the potential impacts and considered contingency plans that they may choose to execute should these rights not be replaced by rights that persist outside EU membership.
Capital risk Risk description Risk management approach The Group is profitable and strongly cash The Group focuses upon its overall cost of capital as it seeks, within the scope of its risk appetite, to provide generative and its capital base comprises equity superior returns to its shareholders, fulfil its obligations to the relevant regulatory authorities and other and debt capital.
stakeholders and ensure that it is not overly dependent upon short and medium term debt that might not be available at renewal.
Maintaining the flexibility to invest for growth is a key capital management However, the Group recognises the risk that its consideration.
entities may not maintain sufficient capital to meet their obligations or they may make The Group can manage its capital structure and react to changes in economic conditions by varying returns to investments that fail to generate a positive or shareholders, issuing new shares or increasing or reducing borrowings.
The Board reviews dividend policy and value enhancing return.
funding capacity on a regular basis and the Group maintains comfortable levels of debt facility headroom.
A summary of the Groups capital structure is presented below: The Group comprises regulated and unregulated 31 December 31 December Book value of capital entities.
It considers that: 2017 2016 m m increases in the capital requirements of its Group consolidated equity excluding non-controlling interests 3,227 3,106 regulated companies, or negative yields on its investments of cash, or Group consolidated debt 1,953 1,166 a scarcity of debt or equity driven by its own performance or financial market conditions Whilst the Company is unregulated, the regulated entities within the Group monitor compliance with the capital requirements set by their respective competent authorities and the terms of reference of the Financial either separately or in combination are the Risk Committee includes oversight of the Groups Capital Management Policy.
The Capital Management Policy principal risks to managing its capital.
seeks to ensure that compliance with local regulations is maintained and that there is a robust evaluation, undertaken by the Groups Investment Committee, of the impact of new investments, across the Group, on its capital position.
Regulated entities within the Group have to date predominantly issued equity and held cash to satisfy their local regulatory capital requirements.
We believe that capital held by Group companies is sufficient to comfortably support current regulatory frameworks.
The level of amounts set aside by the Group for these purposes remains subject to on-going review with regulators, particularly in Europe.
A summary of the Groups regulatory and operational capital is shown below: 31 December 31 December Regulatory and operational capital 2017 2016 m m Total regulatory and operational capital 1,147 943 Amount included in cash and cash equivalents 1,042 848 The total capital amounts have increased year on year reflecting strong cash generation at regulated entities and now include cash held by Monte Titoli as at 31 December 2017 in response to the new Central Securities Depositories Regulation CSDR regulatory requirements.
To maintain the financial strength to access new capital at reasonable cost and sustain an investment grade credit rating, the Group monitors its net leverage ratio which is operating net debt i. e. net debt after excluding cash and cash equivalents set aside for regulatory and operational purposes to proforma adjusted EBITDA Group consolidated earnings before net finance charges, taxation, impairment, depreciation and amortisation, foreign exchange gains or losses and non-underlying items, prorated for acquisitions or disposals undertaken in the period against a target range of 12 times.
The Group is also mindful of potential impacts on the key metrics employed by the credit rating agencies in considering increases to its borrowings.
As at 31 December 2017, net leverage was 1.7 times 2016: 1.1 times, but remains well within the Groups target range.
The Group is comfortably in compliance with its bank facility ratio covenants net leverage and interest cover and these measures do not inhibit the Groups operations or its financing plans.
120 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Credit and concentration risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups credit risk relates to its customers Group and counterparties being unable to meet their Credit risk is governed through policies developed at a Group level.
Limits and thresholds for credit and obligations to the Group either in part or in full, concentration risk are kept under review.
including: Group companies make a judgement on the credit quality of their customers based upon the customers customer receivables, financial position, the recurring nature of billing and collection arrangements and, historically, a low repayment of invested cash and cash incidence of default.
Furthermore, the Group is exposed to a large number of customers and so concentration equivalents, and risk on its receivables is deemed by management as low.
settlement of derivative financial instruments.
Non-CCP entities In their roles as CCP clearers to financial market Credit risk of cash and cash equivalents is managed by limiting exposure to counterparties with credit rating participants, the Groups CCPs guarantee final levels below policy minimum thresholds, potentially overlaid by a default probability assessment.
Except settlement of transactions acting as buyer where specific approval is arranged to increase this limit for certain counterparties, a maximum of 50 million towards each seller and as seller towards each may be invested for up to 12 months with counterparties rated long term AAA or equivalent, through buyer.
They manage substantial credit risks as to a maximum 25 million overnight with counterparties rated short term A-2 or equivalent.
Derivative part of their operations including unmatched transactions and other treasury receivable structures are undertaken or agreed with well capitalised risk positions that might arise from the default counterparties and are authorised by policy to limit the credit risk underlying these transactions.
of a party to a cleared transaction.
For more information see Principal Risk and Uncertainties, CCPs pages 46 to 53.
To address market participant and latent market risk, the Groups CCPs have established financial safeguards against single or multiple defaults.
Clearing membership selection is based upon supervisory capital, Notwithstanding regulations that require CCPs to technical and organisational criteria.
Each member must pay margins, computed and collected at least invest predominantly in secured instruments or daily, to cover the exposures and theoretical costs which the CCP might incur in order to close out open structures such as government bonds and reverse positions in the event of the members default.
Margins are calculated using established and internationally repos, CC&G and the LCH Group CCPs continue to acknowledged risk models and are debited from participants accounts through central bank accounts and via be able to maintain up to 5% of their total deposits commercial bank payment systems.
Minimum levels of cash collateral are required and non-cash collateral is at commercial banks on an unsecured basis.
Through this potential for its CCPs to invest on 31 December 31 December an unsecured basis as well as by certain other 2017 2016 regulated and unregulated operations observing bn bn agreed investment policy limits, the Group will Clearing members margin liability 139 139 continue to face some risk of direct loss from a deterioration or failure of one or more of its Collateral security Cash 73 72 unsecured investment counterparties.
Non-cash 66 67 Maximum aggregate margin liability for the year 155 145 Concentration risk may arise through Group entities having large individual or connected exposures to groups of counterparties whose Clearing members also contribute to default funds managed by the CCPs to guarantee the integrity of the likelihood of default is driven by common markets in the event of multiple defaults in extreme market circumstances.
Amounts are determined on the underlying factors.
This is a particular focus of basis of the results of periodic stress testing examined by the risk committees of the respective CCPs.
the investment approach at the Groups CCPs.
Furthermore, each of the Groups CCPs reinforces its capital position to meet the most stringent relevant regulatory requirements applicable to it, including holding a minimum amount of dedicated own resources to further underpin the protective credit risk framework in the event of a significant market stress event or participant failure.
An analysis of the aggregate clearing member contributions to default funds across the CCPs is shown below: 31 December 31 December Clearing member contributions to default funds 2017 2016 bn bn Aggregate at year end 16 12 Maximum during the year 18 12 Investment counterparty risk for CCP margin and default funds is managed by investing the cash element in instruments or structures deemed secure by the relevant regulatory bodies including through direct investments in highly rated, regulatory qualifying sovereign bonds and supra-national debt, investments in tri-party and bilateral reverse repos receiving high quality government securities as collateral and, in certain jurisdictions, deposits with the central bank.
The small proportion of cash that is invested unsecured is placed for short durations with highly rated counterparties where strict limits are applied with respect to credit quality, concentration and tenor.
31 December 31 December 2017 2016 bn bn Total investment portfolio 87 86 Maximum portfolio size during the year 95 89 Additional portfolio information: Weighted average invested securely 99% 99% Overall maturity days 74 62 Associated liquidity risks are considered in the investment mix and discussed further below.
To address concentration risk, the Group maintains a diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid investments and uses a broad range of custodians, payment and settlement banks and agents.
The largest concentration of treasury exposures as at 31 December 2017 was 24% of the total investment portfolio to the French Government 2016: 21% to the French Government.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 121 Country risk Risk description Risk management approach Distress can result from the risk that certain Specific risk frameworks manage country risk for both fixed income clearing and margin collateral and all governments may be unable or find it difficult to clearing members are monitored regularly against a suite of sovereign stress scenarios.
Investment limits and service their debts.
This could have adverse counterparty and clearing membership monitoring are sensitive to changes in ratings and other financial effects, particularly on the Groups CCPs, market indicators, to ensure the Groups CCPs are able to measure, monitor and mitigate exposures to potentially impacting cleared products, margin sovereign risk and respond quickly to anticipated changes.
Risk Committees maintain an ongoing watch over collateral, investments, the clearing membership these risks and the associated policy frameworks to protect the Group against potentially severe volatility in and the financial industry as a whole.
The Groups sovereign exposures of 1 billion or more at the end of either of the financial reporting periods shown below are: Group Aggregate Sovereign Treasury Exposures 2017 2016 Country bn bn France 21 18 USA 12 14 Netherlands 7 6 UK 6 4 Italy 3 12 Switzerland 1 1 Spain 2 Liquidity, settlement and custodial risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups operations are exposed to liquidity The combined Group businesses are profitable, generate strong free cash flow and operations are not risk to the extent that they are unable to meet significantly impacted by seasonal variations.
The Group maintains sufficient liquid resources to meet their daily payment obligations.
its financial obligations as they fall due and to invest in capital expenditure, make dividend payments, meet its pension commitments, support acquisitions or repay borrowings.
With the exception of regulatory In addition, the Groups CCPs and certain other constraints impacting certain entities, funds can generally be lent across the Group and cash earnings subsidiary companies are required to maintain a remitted through dividend payments.
This is an important component of the Group Treasury cash level of liquidity consistent with regulatory management policy and approach.
requirements to ensure the smooth operation of their respective markets and to maintain Management monitors forecasts of the Groups cash flow and overlays sensitivities to these forecasts to operations in the event of a single or multiple reflect assumptions about more difficult market conditions or stress events.
market stress event or member failure.
This includes the potential requirement to liquidate the Treasury policy requires that the Group maintains adequate credit facilities provided by a diversified lending position of a clearing member under a default group to cover its expected funding requirements and ensure a minimum level of headroom for at least the scenario including covering the associated losses next 24 months.
The financial strength of lenders to the Group is monitored regularly.
During the year ended and the settlement obligations of the defaulting 31 December 2017, the LCH Group 200 million Preferred Securities were redeemed in full utilising the Groups member.
committed credit facilities together with available cash and cash equivalents.
In addition, the Group put in place a new, 5 year, 600 million committed revolving credit facility to replace a maturing facility of The Group is exposed to the risk that a payment or the same amount and issued 1 billion of senior notes due in 2024 and 2029, materially extending its debt settlement bank could fail or that its systems maturity profile.
It has also recently established a 1 billion euro commercial paper programme to further encounter operational issues, creating liquidity broaden its sources of liquidity: the programme was unutilised at the end of the financial year.
At 31 pressures and the risk of possible defaults on December 2017, 675 million 2016: 733 million of the Groups facilities were unutilised.
The Groups CCPs maintain sufficient cash and cash equivalents and, in certain jurisdictions, have access The Group uses third party custodians to hold to central bank refinancing or commercial bank liquidity support credit lines to meet the cash requirements securities and is therefore exposed to the of the clearing and settlement cycle.
Revised regulations require CCPs to ensure that appropriate levels of custodians insolvency, its negligence, a misuse of back up liquidity are in place to underpin the dynamics of a largely secured cash investment requirement, assets or poor administration.
ensuring that the maximum potential outflow under extreme market conditions is covered see Credit and concentration risk section above.
The Groups CCPs monitor their liquidity needs daily under normal and stressed market conditions.
Where possible, the Group employs guaranteed delivery versus payment settlement techniques and manages CCP margin and default fund flows through central bank or long-established, bespoke commercial bank settlement mechanisms.
Monies due from clearing members remain the clearing members liability if the payment agent is unable to effect the appropriate transfer.
In addition, certain Group companies, including the CCPs, maintain operational facilities with commercial banks to manage intraday and overnight liquidity.
Custodians are subject to minimum eligibility requirements, ongoing credit assessment, robust contractual arrangements and are required to have appropriate back-up contingency arrangements in place.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table reflect the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
The borrowings line includes future interest on debt that is not accrued for in relation to bonds which are not yet due.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over At 31 December 2017 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Borrowings 556 299 364 951 2,170 Trade and other payables 471 471 CCP liabilities 734,981 734,981 Derivative financial instruments 29 29 Other non-current liabilities 34 12 3 49 736,008 362 376 954 737,700 122 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Liquidity, settlement and custodial risk Continued Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over At 31 December 2016 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Borrowings 654 37 638 14 1,343 Trade and other payables 479 479 CCP liabilities 558,478 558,478 Derivative financial instruments 19 19 Other non-current liabilities 46 12 8 66 559,611 83 669 22 560,385 Market risk Foreign Exchange Risk description Risk management approach The Group operates primarily in the UK, Europe The Group seeks to match the currency of its debt liabilities to the currency of its earnings and cash flows and North America, but also has growing and which to an extent balances the currency of its assets with its liabilities.
In order to mitigate the impact of strategically important businesses in Asia, and unfavourable currency exchange movements on earnings and net assets, non-Sterling cash earnings are other alliances and investments across the globe.
centralised and applied to matching currency debt and interest payments, and where relevant, interest Its principal currencies of operation are Sterling, payments on Sterling debt re-denominated through the use of cross-currency swaps.
A proportion of the Groups debt is held in or swapped into Euro and US Dollars.
With the exception of MillenniumIT a Sri Lankan 31 December 31 December Currency of debt Rupee reporting entity, which invoices a material 2017 2016 proportion of its revenues in US Dollars, and m m certain operations of the LCH Group a Euro Euro denominated drawn debt 921 352 reporting subsidiary, which generate material Euro denominated cross-currency interest rate swaps 355 256 revenues in Sterling and US Dollars and incur material costs in Sterling, Group companies US Dollar denominated drawn debt 100 generally invoice revenues, incur expenses and US Dollar denominated cross-currency interest rate swaps 622 purchase assets in their respective local currencies.
As a result, foreign exchange risk The cross currency interest rate swaps are directly linked to Sterling and Euro fixed debt.
The Euro and US arises mainly from the translation of the Groups Dollar denominated debt, including the cross-currency swaps, provides a hedge against the Groups net foreign currency earnings, assets and liabilities investment in Euro and US Dollar denominated entities.
into its reporting currency, Sterling, and from occasional, high value intragroup transactions.
As at 31 December 2017, the Groups designated hedges of its net investments were fully effective.
Intragroup dividends and the currency debt Whilst transactional foreign exchange exposure is limited, the Group hedges material transactions in interest obligations of the Company may create accordance with Group Treasury policy which requires cash flows of more than 1 million or equivalent per short term transactional FX exposures but play annum to be hedged with appropriate derivative instruments or by settling currency payables or receivables their part in controlling the level of translational within a short timeframe.
Where appropriate, hedge accounting for derivatives is considered in order to FX exposures the Group faces.
mitigate material levels of income statement volatility.
The Group may be exposed from time to time to In addition to projecting and analysing its earnings and debt profile by currency, the Group reviews FX risk associated with strategic investments in, sensitivities to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to market conditions.
The Group has or divestments from operations denominated in considered movements in the Euro and the US Dollar over the year ended 31 December 2017 and year ended currencies other than Sterling.
31 December 2016 and, based on actual market observations between its principal currency pairs, has concluded that a 10% movement in rates is a reasonable level to illustrate the risk to the Group.
The impact on post tax profit and equity for the years ended 31 December is set out in the table below: 2017 2016 Post tax Post tax profit Equity profit Equity m m m m Euro Sterling weaken 4 21 4 38 Sterling strengthen 3 19 3 34 US Dollar Sterling weaken 6 39 2 5 Sterling strengthen 5 35 2 5 This reflects foreign exchange gains or losses on translation of Euro and US Dollar denominated trade receivables, trade payables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss including Euro and US Dollar denominated cash and borrowings.
The impact on the Groups operating profit for the year before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items, of a 10 Euro cent and 10 US Dollar cent movement in the Sterling-Euro and Sterling-US Dollar rates respectively, can be seen below: 2017 2016 m m Euro Sterling weaken 25 27 Sterling strengthen 21 23 US Dollar Sterling weaken 26 17 Sterling strengthen 22 15 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 123 Market risk Cash Flow and Fair Value Interest Rate Risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups interest rate risk arises through the Group interest rate management policy focuses on protecting the Groups credit rating and maintaining impact of changes in market rates on cash flows compliance with bank covenant requirements.
To support this objective, a minimum coverage of interest associated with cash and cash equivalents, expense by EBITDA of 7 times, and a maximum floating rate component of 50% of total debt are targeted.
investments in financial assets and borrowings This approach reflects: held at floating rates.
i. a focus on the Groups cost of gross debt rather than its net debt given the material cash and cash The Groups CCPs face interest rate exposure equivalents set aside for regulatory purposes: through the impact of changes in the reference ii.
the short duration allowed for investments of cash and cash equivalents held for regulatory purposes rates used to calculate member liabilities versus which, by their nature, generate low investment yields: the yields achieved through their predominantly iii.
a view that already low market yields are unlikely to move materially lower: and secured investment activities.
the broad natural hedge of floating rate borrowings provided by the significant balances of cash and cash equivalents held effectively at floating rates of interest.
As at 31 December 2017, consolidated net interest expense cover by EBITDA was measured over the 12 month period at 15.5 times 2016: 13.0 times and the floating rate component of total debt was 27% 2016: 40%.
In the Groups CCPs, interest bearing assets are generally invested in secured instruments or structures and for a longer term than interest bearing liabilities, whose interest rate is reset daily.
This makes investment revenue vulnerable to volatility in overnight rates and shifts in spreads between overnight and term rates.
Interest rate exposures and the risk to CCP capital are managed within defined risk appetite parameters against which sensitivities are monitored daily.
In its review of the sensitivities to potential movements in interest rates, the Group has considered interest rate volatility over the last year and prospects for rates over the next 12 months and has concluded that a 1 percentage point upward movement with a limited prospect of material downward movement reflects a reasonable level of risk to current rates.
At 31 December 2017, at the Group level, if interest rates on Sterling-denominated, Euro-denominated and US Dollar-denominated cash and borrowings had been 1 percentage point higher with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 5 million higher 2016: 5 million higher mainly as a result of higher interest income on floating rate cash and cash equivalents partially offset by higher interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
At 31 December 2017, at the CCP level in aggregate, if interest rates on the common interest bearing member liability benchmarks of Eonia, Fed Funds and Sonia, for Euro, US Dollar and Sterling liabilities respectively, had been 1 percentage point higher, with all other variables held constant, the daily impact on post-tax profit for the Group would have been 2 million lower 2016: 2 million lower.
This deficit is expected to be recovered as investment yields increase as the portfolio matures and is reinvested.
124 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 3.
Significant judgements and estimates Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
Estimates: For the year ended 31 December 2017, the following areas require the use of estimates: Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination valued on acquisition using appropriate methodologies and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
These valuations and lives are based on managements best estimates of future performance and periods over which value from the intangible assets are realised.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are provided in Note 14: Impairment of purchased intangible assets, goodwill and investment in subsidiaries tested for impairment annually.
The recoverable amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future performance and estimates of the return required by investors to determine an appropriate discount rate.
Details are provided in Note 14: and Defined benefit pension asset or liability determined based on the present value of future pension obligations using assumptions determined by the Group with advice from an independent qualified actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in Note 18.
Judgements: In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, the following judgement has been made: CCP trading assets and trading liabilities The Group uses its judgement to carry out the offsetting within clearing member balances.
The carrying values of the balances are offset at what the Group considers an appropriate level to arrive at the net balances reported in the balance sheet.
The Group has an aligned approach for its CCP subsidiaries to ensure the principles are applied are consistent across similar assets and liabilities.
The approach is reviewed on a timely basis to ensure the approach used is the most appropriate.
Details of amounts offset are provided in Note 20.
Segmental Information The Group is organised into operating units based on its service lines and has 6 reportable segments: Information Services, Post Trade Services LCH, Post Trade Services CC&G and Monte Titoli, Capital Markets, Technology Services and Other.
These segments generate revenue in the following areas: Information Services Subscription and licence fees for data and index services provided Post Trade Services LCH Fees based on CCP and clearing services provided, non-cash collateral management and net interest earned on cash held for margin and default funds Post Trade Services CC&G and Monte Titoli Clearing fees based on trades and contracts cleared, net interest earned on cash, securities held for margin and default funds, and fees from settlement and custody services Capital Markets Admission fees from initial listing and further capital raises, annual fees charged for securities traded on the Groups markets, and fees from our secondary market services Technology Services Capital markets software licences and related IT infrastructure, network connection and server hosting services: and Other Includes events and media services The Executive Committee monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 125 Sales between segments are carried out at arms length and are eliminated on consolidation.
Segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2017 are as follows: Post Trade Post Trade Services Information Services CC&G and Capital Technology Services LCH Monte Titoli Markets Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 736 432 109 391 91 9 1,768 Inter-segmental revenue 1 20 21 Revenue 736 432 110 391 111 9 21 1,768 Net treasury income through CCP business 120 42 162 Other income 10 15 25 Total income 736 562 152 391 111 24 21 1,955 Cost of sales 62 88 17 16 29 3 215 Gross profit 674 474 135 375 82 21 21 1,740 Share of loss after tax of associates 9 9 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment 400 245 82 194 5 1 12 915 Depreciation, non-acquisition software amortisation and impairment 17 51 11 14 7 6 3 103 Operating profit loss before non-underlying items 383 194 71 180 2 5 9 812 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 153 Non-underlying items 33 Operating profit 626 Net finance expense 62 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 564 Revenue from external customers principally comprises fees for services rendered of 1,668 million 2016: 1,423 million and Technology Services of 91 million 2016: 88 million.
Net treasury income through CCP businesses of 162 million 2016: 125 million comprises gross interest income of 813 million 2016: 497 million less gross interest expense of 651 million 2016: 372 million.
During the year the Group recognised a total of 74 million 2016: 140 million of net treasury income on financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost comprising of 559 million 2016: 357 million gross treasury income and 485 million 2016: 217 million gross treasury expense, and 88 million net gain 2016: 15 million net loss on assets held at fair value comprising of 254 million 2016: 140 million fair value gain and 166 million 2016: 155 million fair value loss.
Presented within revenue are net settlement expenses from the CCP business of 1 million 2016: 5 million expense which comprise gross settlement income of 22 million 2016: 16 million less gross settlement expense of 23 million 2016: 21 million.
126 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2016 are as follows: Post Trade Post Trade Services Information Services CC&G and Capital Technology Services LCH Monte Titoli Markets Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 595 356 104 368 88 4 1,515 Inter-segmental revenue 16 16 Revenue 595 356 104 368 104 4 16 1,515 Net treasury income through CCP business 82 43 125 Other income 9 8 17 Total income 595 447 147 368 104 12 16 1,657 Cost of sales 54 56 13 22 28 2 175 Gross profit 541 391 134 346 76 10 16 1,482 Share of loss after tax of associates 5 5 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 350 159 71 188 18 2 13 771 Depreciation, non-acquisition software amortisation and impairment 13 36 18 11 6 3 2 85 Operating profit loss before non-underlying items 337 123 53 177 12 5 11 686 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 157 Non-underlying items 102 Operating profit 427 Net finance expense 63 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 364 Geographical disclosures 2017 2016 m m Revenue from external customers UK 999 866 Italy 316 306 France 106 92 USA 276 177 Other 71 74 Total 1,768 1,515 2017 2016 m m Total assets UK 366,608 159,996 Italy 118,082 176,526 France 254,645 226,089 USA 2,428 1,977 Other 217 208 Total 741,980 564,796 2017 2016 m m Non-current operating assets UK 1,107 1,128 Italy 1,284 1,279 France 58 47 USA 2,120 1,685 Other 155 96 Total 4,724 4,235 Non-current operating assets consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investment in associates.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 127 5.
Expenses by nature Expenses comprise the following: 2017 2016 Notes m m Employee costs 6 497 429 IT costs 120 117 Other costs 199 160 Operating expenses before depreciation, non-acquisition software amortisation, and impairment 816 706 Depreciation, non-acquisition software amortisation and impairment 13, 14 103 85 Total operating expenses 919 791 Other costs include foreign exchange losses of 17 million 2016: 3 million gain.
Employee costs Employee costs comprise the following: 2017 2016 Note m m Salaries and other benefits 368 329 Social security costs 64 52 Pension costs 18 27 21 Share-based compensation 38 27 Total 497 429 Staff costs include the costs of contract staff who are not on the payroll, but fulfil a similar role to employees.
The average number of employees in the Group from total operations was: 2017 2016 UK 1,532 1,352 Italy 573 568 France 165 172 Sri Lanka 1,094 946 USA 626 258 Other 751 452 Total 4,741 3,748 Average staff numbers are calculated from the date of acquisition for subsidiary companies acquired in the year and up to the date of disposal for businesses disposed in the year.
The Company had no employees in the year 2016: nil.
128 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 7.
Non-underlying items 2017 2016 Notes m m Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 14 153 157 Transaction costs 25 85 Restructuring costs 7 14 Integration costs 8 3 Profit on disposal of businesses 7 Total affecting operating profit 186 259 Tax effect on items affecting profit before tax Deferred tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 184 41 Current tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 2 2 Tax effect on other items affecting profit before tax 4 4 Total tax effect on items affecting profit before tax 190 39 Total credit charge to continuing operations income statement 4 220 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 10 25 88 Total charge to income statement 21 308 Transaction costs comprise charges incurred for ongoing services relating to potential merger and acquisition transactions.
Restructuring and integration costs in the current year principally relate to the restructuring of LCH Group and the integration of the Mergent and Yield Book businesses.
In the prior year, the Group incurred restructuring costs in relation to the LCH Group and integration and restructuring costs in relation to the Frank Russell Company.
The 7 million profit on disposal comprises 5 million profit in relation to the sale of Information Services Professional Solutions ISPS, a business line of BIt Market Services S. p. A. for a cash consideration of 9 million.
The net assets disposed contained brands, intellectual property and capitalised research and development investments, used for carrying out the ISPS business along with identified agreements with suppliers and clients and employment relationships.
The remaining 2 million profit on disposal relates to the sale of the Millennium Enterprise Systems Integration business, a business that formed part of the Technology Services segment and the MillenniumIT cash generating unit, for cash consideration of 5 million.
Loss after tax on discontinued operations relates to the disposal of Russell Investment Management business.
See Note 10 for further details.
Further details on the recognition of deferred tax in relation to the amortisation of purchased intangible assets are provided in Note 9.
Net finance expense 2017 2016 Notes m m Finance income Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 18 1 Bank deposit and other interest income 3 1 Other finance income 5 5 8 7 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 63 65 Defined benefit pension scheme interest cost 18 2 2 Other finance expenses 5 3 70 70 Net finance expense 62 63 Interest payable includes amounts where the Group earns negative interest on its cash deposits.
During the year the Group recognised a total of 60 million 2016: 62 million of net interest expense on financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost, comprising of 8 million 2016: 6 million gross finance income and 68 million 2016: 68 million gross finance expense.
Presented within finance income and finance expense are amounts in relation to defined benefit schemes which are measured at fair value.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 129 9.
Taxation The standard UK corporation tax rate was 19.25% 20% for the year ended 31 December 2016.
2017 2016 Taxation charged to the income statement Note m m Current tax: UK corporation tax for the year 76 46 Overseas tax for the year 95 88 Adjustments in respect of previous years 10 3 161 131 Deferred tax: 17 Deferred tax for the year 9 7 Adjustments in respect of previous years 10 4 Deferred tax liability on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 184 41 Taxation credit charge 22 101 The adjustments in respect of previous years corporation tax are mainly in respect of tax returns submitted to relevant tax authorities.
2017 2016 Taxation on items not credited charged to income statement m m Current tax credit: Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 8 11 8 11 Deferred tax charge credit: Tax on defined benefit pension scheme remeasurement 25 15 Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 4 7 Tax on movement in value of available for sale financial assets 2 1 11 18 Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The income statement tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19.25% 2016: 20% as explained below: 2017 2016 m m Profit before taxation from continuing operations 564 364 Loss profit before taxation from discontinued operations 23 104 541 468 Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 104 94 Expenses not deductible 9 18 Adjustment arising from change in tax rates 2 2 Overseas earnings taxed at higher rate 10 167 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1 Adjustment arising from changes in tax rates on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 147 6 Deferred tax previously not recognised 2 1 20 275 Income tax from continuing operations 22 101 Income tax attributable to discontinued operations 2 174 The UK Finance Bill 2015 was enacted in November 2015 reducing the standard rate of corporation tax from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and the UK Finance Bill 2016 was enacted in September 2016 reducing the standard rate of corporation tax further to 17% effective from 1 April 2020.
Accordingly, the UK deferred tax balances at December 2017 have been stated at 19% or 17% dependent on when the temporary differences are expected to reverse.
The Group recognised a one off deferred tax credit of 142 million relating to the reduction in the deferred tax liability which arises from consolidation of US acquisitions and reflects the lower Federal tax rate of 21% substantively enacted following US tax reform signed into law in December 2017.
The deferred tax balances in other countries are recognised at the substantively enacted rates at the balance sheet date.
Uncertain tax positions An amount of 2 million 2016: 1 million has been provided for in respect of uncertain tax positions in relation to uncertainty arising from the introduction of UK Diverted Profits Tax.
In the prior year, an additional uncertain tax position of 3 million was provided for, reflecting ongoing discussions with the tax authorities regarding the tax effect of certain changes in accounting policy for intangible assets.
The Group no longer considers this amount to be uncertain, following further discussions with the tax authorities during the year.
Judgements The Group is monitoring developments in relation to EU State Aid investigation into the UKs Controlled Foreign Company regime.
The Group does not currently consider that any provision is required in relation to EU State Aid.
130 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 10.
Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale In the prior year, the Group completed the sale of the Russell Investment Management business to TA Associates and Reverence Capital Partners for US$1,150 million 794 million total consideration.
The Group incurred a non-underlying loss of US$29 million 23 million in the year 2016: 76 million gain relating to the disposal of the Russell Investment Management business.
During the year, the Group recognised US$18 million 13 million current tax and other receivable in relation to the disposed business.
Subsequently, the Group recorded a US$21 million 17 million adjustment to the disposal balance sheet relating to tax balances at the disposal date and a US$8 million 6 million reduction to the net proceeds received on disposal as a result of the finalisation of the completion statement, which resulted in a US$2 million 2 million cash payment by the Group.
The disposal accounting and final tax position will be finalised on completion of the relevant tax returns.
The results of the Russell Investment Management business for the 5 month period to 31 May 2016 are included in the comparatives as discontinued operations in the Groups consolidated income statement.
The results of discontinued operations are presented below: 2017 2016 Note m m Revenue 390 Other income 1 Total income 391 Cost of sales 200 Gross profit 191 Expenses Expenses before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items 164 Non-underlying items 23 76 Operating loss profit 23 103 Net finance income 1 Loss profit before tax from discontinued operations 23 104 Taxation on profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items 10 Taxation on amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items 2 164 Taxation 9 2 174 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 25 70 Attributable to: Equity holders 25 71 Non-controlling interests 1 25 70 There were no cash flows generated or incurred by discontinued operations from operating, investing or financing activities in the year ended 31 December 2017.
In the prior year, the net cash inflow from discontinued operations amounted to 71 million, which comprised of 59 million cash inflow from operating activities, 8 million outflow from investing activities and 20 million inflow from financing activities.
During the year, the Group classified Exactpro Systems Limited and its subsidiaries Exactpro as a disposal group held for sale, a business that forms part of the Technology Services segment.
As at 31 December 2017, a total of 6 million of Exactpro assets have been classified as held or sale on the Groups balance sheet and comprise goodwill, property, plant and equipment, trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group completed the disposal of the Exactpro business on 17 January 2018.
Further details are provided in Note 34.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 131 11.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is presented on 4 bases: basic earnings per share: diluted earnings per share: adjusted basic earnings per share: and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share is in respect of all activities and diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilution effects which would arise on conversion or vesting of all outstanding share options and share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-underlying items to enable a better comparison of the underlying earnings of the business with prior periods.
2017 2016 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total Basic earnings per share 153.6p 7.2p 146.4p 63.8p 20.3p 43.5p Diluted earnings per share 150.1p 7.1p 143.0p 62.5p 19.9p 42.6p Adjusted basic earnings per share 148.7p 148.7p 124.7p 5.0p 129.7p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 145.3p 145.3p 122.3p 4.9p 127.2p Profit and adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to the Companys equity holders: 2017 2016 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total m m m m m m Profit for the financial year attributable to the Companys equity holders 530 25 505 223 71 152 Adjustments: Non-underlying items: Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 153 153 157 157 Transaction costs 25 25 85 85 Restructuring costs 7 7 14 14 Integration costs 8 8 3 3 Profit on disposal of businesses 7 23 16 76 76 Other adjusting items: Tax effect of amortisation of purchased intangible assets and nonunderlying items 190 2 188 39 164 125 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets, non-underlying items and taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 13 13 7 7 Adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to the Company's equity holders 513 513 436 17 453 Weighted average number of shares million 345 349 Effect of dilutive share options and awards million 8 7 Diluted weighted average number of shares million 353 356 The weighted average number of shares excludes those held in the Employee Benefit Trust and treasury shares held by the Group.
Dividends 2017 2016 m m Final dividend for 31 December 2015 paid 1 June 2016: 25.2p per Ordinary share 88 Interim dividend for 31 December 2016 paid 20 September 2016: 12.0p per Ordinary share 42 Final dividend for 31 December 2016 paid 31 May 2017: 31.2 per Ordinary share 109 Interim dividend for 31 December 2017 paid 19 September 2017: 14.4p per Ordinary share 50 159 130 Dividends are only paid out of available distributable reserves.
The Board has proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 of 37.2p per share, which is estimated to amount to 129 million, to be paid in May 2018.
This is not reflected in the financial statements.
132 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 13.
Property, plant and equipment Land & Buildings Fixed plant, other plant and Freehold Leasehold equipment Total Cost: m m m m 31 December 2015 50 44 147 241 Additions 1 3 30 34 Disposals 1 11 12 Transfers 1 3 8 6 Foreign exchange 1 1 14 16 31 December 2016 51 50 172 273 Additions 47 47 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2 2 Disposals 1 1 Disposal of business 3 3 Reclassification to assets held for sale 1 1 Transfers 2 2 3 1 Foreign exchange 1 2 1 31 December 2017 51 52 216 319 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: 31 December 2015 28 34 84 146 Disposals 1 11 12 Charge for the year 1 21 22 Transfers 3 3 Foreign exchange 12 12 31 December 2016 28 34 103 165 Disposal of business 2 2 Charge for the year 3 23 26 Impairment 1 1 31 December 2017 29 37 124 190 Net book values: 31 December 2017 22 15 92 129 31 December 2016 23 16 69 108 As at 31 December 2017, the Group held no items of equipment under finance leases 2016: nil.
Transfers relate to re-classification of property, plant and equipment to other asset classes and re-allocations between property, plant and equipment types.
The Company has no property, plant and equipment 2016: nil.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 133 14.
Intangible assets Purchased intangible assets Software, licences and Customer intellectual Software and Goodwill relationships Brands property other Total Cost: m m m m m m 31 December 2015 1,823 1,517 852 422 341 4,955 Additions 1 113 114 Disposals 8 8 Foreign exchange 273 215 119 12 56 675 31 December 2016 2,097 1,732 971 434 502 5,736 Acquisition of subsidiaries 289 151 57 168 11 676 Additions 143 143 Disposal of business 1 8 9 Disposals 15 3 12 9 39 Reclassification to assets held for sale 3 3 Transfer of asset 1 1 Foreign exchange 4 20 65 6 14 81 31 December 2017 2,378 1,848 960 584 652 6,422 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 31 December 2015 449 349 71 239 143 1,251 Impairment 8 8 Amortisation charge for the year 85 41 31 55 212 Disposals 6 6 Foreign exchange 51 48 10 7 31 147 31 December 2016 500 482 122 277 231 1,612 Amortisation charge for the year 90 38 25 76 229 Disposal of business 6 6 Disposals 15 3 12 9 39 Foreign exchange 21 9 6 1 11 36 31 December 2017 521 566 151 291 303 1,832 Net book values: 31 December 2017 1,857 1,282 809 293 349 4,590 31 December 2016 1,597 1,250 849 157 271 4,124 Transfers in the year relate to re-classification of software intangibles to property, plant and equipment.
During the year, the Group acquired the entire share capital of the Mergent and Yield Book businesses, which resulted in an increase of 289 million in goodwill.
During the year, the Group disposed of the Millennium Enterprise Systems Integration business, which resulted in a reduction of 1 million in goodwill.
During the year, the Group classified Exactpro as a disposal group held for sale which resulted in 3 million of goodwill being reclassified as an asset held for sale.
Further details are provided in Note 10.
The goodwill arising on consolidation represents the growth potential and assembled workforces of the Italian Group, LCH Group, FTSE Group, MillenniumIT, the US Information Services Group and Turquoise.
The Company has no intangible assets 2016: none.
Purchased intangible assets The fair values of the purchased intangible assets were principally valued using discounted cash flow methodologies and are being amortised over their useful economic lives, which do not normally exceed 25 years.
The Groups purchased intangible assets include: Customer relationships These assets have been recognised on acquisition of major subsidiary companies by the Group.
The amortisation period remaining on these assets are between 10 to 25 years.
Brands Brands have been recognised in a number of major acquisitions, including FTSE, LCH, Russell and Yield Book.
Included within brands are trade names relating to the acquisition of Frank Russell Group of 574 million 2016: 658 million.
The remaining amortisation period on these assets are between 20 to 25 years.
Software, licences and intellectual property These assets have been recognised on acquisition of subsidiary companies and have a remaining amortisation period of 5 to 20 years.
There are no other individual purchased intangible assets with a carrying value that is considered material to each asset class.
134 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Software and other The cost of self-developed software includes 94 million 2016: 67 million representing assets not yet brought into use.
No amortisation has been charged on these assets and instead they are tested for impairment annually.
Following a review of software assets across the Group, no impairment was recognised during the year 2016: 8 million.
Other amounts represent the internally built and developed trading systems within the various business lines.
In general these assets have a useful economic life of 5 years.
During the year, additions relating to internally generated software amounted to 143 million 2016: 113 million.
The carrying value of licences held under finance leases at 31 December 2017 was 7 million 2016: nil.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to 11 cash generating units CGUs.
The recoverable amounts of these CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations using discounted cash flow forecasts based on business plans prepared by management for a 3 year period ending 31 December 2020, and then projected for a further 2 years to 31 December 2022.
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using the estimated long term growth rates and applying the pre-tax discount rates referred to below.
The amount of the net book value of goodwill allocated to each CGU is set out below.
Net book value of goodwill Pre-tax discount rate used in value in use calculations Reclassified 31 December Acquisition of Disposal of to assets held Foreign 31 December 2016 subsidiaries business for sale exchange 2017 m m m m m m 2017 2016 Italian Group: Capital Markets 247 10 257 12.6% 11.6% Information Services 136 6 142 12.7% 12.3% Technology Services 22 1 23 11.4% 11.2% Post Trade Services 419 18 437 13.4% 12.3% MillenniumIT 2 1 1 20.7% 20.0% Turquoise 9 9 9.7% 9.2% FTSE Group 193 2 191 10.1% 9.6% LCH Group 121 5 126 10.4% 9.7% US Information Services Group: Frank Russell Group 445 46 399 11.9% 13.1% Yield Book 215 10 205 9.5% N A Mergent 74 7 67 14.0% N A Exactpro 3 3 N A 10.4% 1,597 289 1 3 25 1,857 Management has based its value in use calculations for each CGU on key assumptions about short and medium term revenue and cost growth, long term economic growth rates used to determine terminal values and pre-tax discount rates.
The values assigned to short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions are based on the 2018 budget and the Groups approved business plan.
The assumptions are derived from an assessment of current trends, anticipated market and regulatory developments, discussions with customers and suppliers, and managements experience.
These factors are considered in conjunction with the Groups long-term strategic objectives to determine appropriate short and medium growth assumptions.
Long-term growth rates assumed to be 1.6% for each of the Italian CGUs 2016: 1.7%, 9.4% for MillenniumIT 2016: 10.1%, 3.8% for each of the US Information Services CGUs 2016: 4.1% and 3.7% for the other CGUs 2016: 3.7% represent managements internal forecasts based on external estimates of GDP and inflation analysis for the 10 year period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2022, and do not exceed the long term average growth rates for the countries in which the CGUs operate.
Pre-tax discount rates are based on a number of factors including the risk-free rates in Italy, France, Sri Lanka, USA and the UK as appropriate, the Groups estimated market risk premium and a premium to reflect the inherent risks of each of the CGUs.
Based on the results of the impairment tests performed, management believes there is no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill in any CGU.
Value in use calculations for each CGU are sensitive to changes in short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions, long term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates.
Management believes goodwill allocated to each CGU is unlikely to be materially impaired under reasonable changes to key assumptions.
The excess of value in use over carrying value is determined by reference to the net book value as at 31 December 2017.
Revenue and cost sensitivities assume a 5% change in revenues or costs for each of the 5 years in the value in use calculations.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 135 15.
Investment in associates Group Company m m 31 December 2015 Acquisition of associates 8 8 Share of loss after tax 5 31 December 2016 3 8 Acquisitions and investments 11 9 Share of loss after tax 9 Impairment 14 31 December 2017 5 3 In the prior year, the Company acquired a 26% equity interest in Curve Global Limited Curve Global, an interest rate derivatives company, also owned by major dealer banks and the Chicago Board Options Exchange.
During the current year, the Company increased its equity interest in Curve Global to 43.38% through a non-cash contribution of 9 million.
During the year, Elite Club Deal Limited, a subsidiary of the Group, acquired a 27.35% equity interest in The Hub Exchange Limited, a provider of enterprise-grade platforms for investment networks, for 2 million cash consideration.
Investment in subsidiary companies Shares Other Total Company m m m 31 December 2015 3,892 1,005 4,897 Investment in LSEGH Luxembourg Ltd 470 470 Other movements 2 2 31 December 2016 4,362 1,003 5,365 Investment in LSE Group Holdings Italy Limited 94 94 Investment in LSEG US Holdco Inc 297 297 Investment in LSEGH Luxembourg Ltd 328 328 Other movements 14 14 31 December 2017 5,081 1,017 6,098 Other includes amounts invested in subsidiary companies by way of capital contributions and awards granted under the Groups share schemes.
Country of % Country of principal equity and Principal subsidiaries: Principal activity incorporation operations votes held Held directly by the Company: London Stock Exchange plc Recognised investment exchange England England 100 and Wales and Wales Held indirectly by the Company: BANQUE CENTRALE fide COMPENSATION LCH S. A. CCP clearing services France France 58.62 Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Recognised investment exchange Italy Italy 99.99 Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CCP clearing services Italy Italy 99.99 Elite S. p. A.
Business support programme Italy Italy 75 Frank Russell Company Market indexes provider USA USA 100 FTSE International Ltd Market indexes provider England England 100 and Wales and Wales LCH Limited CCP clearing services England England 65.93 and Wales and Wales Mergent, Inc. Business and financial information provider USA USA 100 Monte Titoli S. p. A. Pre-settlement, settlement and centralised custody Italy Italy 98.87 Millennium Information Technologies Software Ltd IT solutions provider Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 100 Mercato dei Titoli di Stato S. p. A.
Wholesale fixed income bonds Italy Italy 62.53 The Yield Book Inc.
Fixed income indexes and analytics USA USA 100 Turquoise Global Holdings Ltd Multi-lateral trading facility England England 51.36 and Wales and Wales Under Regulation 7 of The Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008, the Group elected not to prepare partnership accounts for its indirect partnership interest in London Stock Exchange Connectivity Solutions LP, as its results are contained in the consolidated group accounts.
A full list of subsidiaries is provided in Note 35.
136 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements LCH Group is the only subsidiary that has material non-controlling interests within the Group.
Financial information relating to this subsidiary is provided below: 2017 2016 Summarised statement of comprehensive income m m Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interests 421 400 Profit for the year attributable to material non-controlling interests 49 29 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests 11 10 Total comprehensive income attributable to material non-controlling interests 77 71 2017 2016 Summarised statement of financial position m m Non-current assets 542 452 Current assets 621,814 391,385 Current liabilities 621,125 390,828 Non-current liabilities 89 53 Total equity 1,142 956 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 721 556 Non-controlling interests 421 400 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 62 173 Accumulated balances in the above analysis includes goodwill, purchased intangible assets and associated amortisation and impairments attributable to noncontrolling interests.
The summarised total comprehensive income of the LCH Group is provided below.
This information is based on amounts excluding goodwill, purchased intangible assets and associated amortisation and impairments attributable to non-controlling interests.
2017 2016 Summarised statement of total comprehensive income m m Total income 561 447 Profit for the year 139 68 Other comprehensive income loss excluding exchange on translation of foreign operations 38 10 Total comprehensive income excluding exchange translation of foreign operations 177 58 Gains on translation of foreign operations 35 112 Total comprehensive income before eliminations 212 170 Eliminations 3 23 Total comprehensive income 209 147 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 124 76 Non-controlling interests 85 71 LCH Group was acquired on 1 May 2013.
Their results have been incorporated from that date.
Subsidiaries exempt from audit The following UK subsidiaries will take advantage of the audit exemption set out within section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Company Name Registration number London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Limited 6795362 London Stock Exchange Group Holdings R Limited 7388645 London Stock Exchange C Limited 7943990 London Stock Exchange Reg Holdings Limited 7378551 London Stock Exchange Group Services Limited 9313935 LSEG M Financing Limited 10532155 FTSE Australia Limited 6182374 FTSE International France Limited 3793705 FTSE International Italy Limited 6858736 FTSE Japan Limited 4511214 LSEG Employment Services Limited 9100833 SSC Global Business Services Limited 7584392 LSEG Technology Limited 7484865 Gatelab Limited 6606847 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 137 17.
Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below.
Acquisition Provisions Accelerated deferred and other tax tax and temporary depreciation amortisation differences Total Group m m m m 31 December 2015 8 614 15 591 Reclassification from assets held for sale 10 10 Transfer to current tax 5 5 Tax credited charged to the income statement 41 11 30 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: defined benefit scheme remeasurement loss 15 15 movement in value of available for sale financial assets 1 1 foreign exchange 98 98 Allowance on share options awards to equity 7 7 31 December 2016 8 671 26 637 Transfer between categories 4 4 Deferred tax recognised on acquisition of businesses 1 23 4 20 Tax credited charged to the income statement 3 184 4 183 Tax charged credited to other comprehensive income: defined benefit scheme remeasurement gain 25 25 movement in value of available for sale financial assets 2 2 foreign exchange 1 26 27 Allowance on share options awards to equity 4 4 Disposal of business 2 2 31 December 2017 9 484 11 464 Assets at 31 December 2017 9 29 38 Liabilities at 31 December 2017 484 18 502 Net assets liabilities at 31 December 2017 9 484 11 464 Assets at 31 December 2016 8 60 68 Liabilities at 31 December 2016 671 34 705 Net assets liabilities at 31 December 2016 8 671 26 637 The deferred tax assets are recoverable against future taxable profits and are due after more than 1 year.
The net deferred tax asset of 11 million 2016: 26 million in respect of provisions and other temporary differences mainly relates to share based payments of 14 million 2016: 7 million, retirement benefits liability of 15 million 2016: 10 million, trading losses of 5 million 2016: 24 million, withholding tax on distributable reserves of subsidiary companies of 5 million 2016: 5 million and other provisions and temporary differences of 12 million 2016: 10 million.
The purchased intangible assets of the acquired subsidiaries create a deferred tax liability due to the difference between their accounting and tax treatment.
This liability is amortised at the same rate as the purchased intangible assets.
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 18 million 2016: 21 million within certain Group subsidiaries.
The assets would be recognised in the future only if suitable taxable income were to arise within the Group.
There was no deferred tax in the Company 2016: nil.
138 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 18.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates separate defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The assets of the defined benefit and defined contribution schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
In the UK, the defined benefit scheme is administered by trustees with the assets primarily being managed by BMO Global Asset Management, Legal & General Investment Management Limited, PIMCO Europe Limited, Schroder Investment Management Limited, and a buy in insurance asset with Pension Insurance Corporation.
On 5 September 2016, the London Stock Exchange Retirement Plan LSERP and the LCH Pension Scheme in the UK LCH UK underwent a sectionalised merger into a new London Stock Exchange Group Pension Scheme LSEGPS.
The scheme maintains separate LCH and LSE Sections.
The assets of the LSEGPS are held by the trustees who are responsible for the schemes governance.
The schemes are invested in a wide range of assets in the UK and overseas, which seek to balance risk and investment return, through investment managers appointed by the schemes trustees.
The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The Other plans relate to the severance and leaving indemnity scheme Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR operated by the Italian group in accordance with Italian law, the employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT and other pension commitments of the LCH Group outside of the UK.
The only schemes operated by FTSE International and US entities are defined contribution schemes recorded in Other plans.
All schemes are governed by the local regulatory framework and employment laws in the country in which they operate.
The Company has no retirement benefit obligations.
Defined benefit schemes United Kingdom The LSE section of LSEGPS was a non-contributory defined benefit scheme that closed to new members in 1999.
With effect from 31 March 2012, the LSERP also closed to accrual of future benefits for active members and it has been agreed that the benefits already accrued for affected members will remain linked to their salary with the Group.
The LCH section of LSEGPS was closed to new members from 30 September 2009.
It was closed to further employee contributions and accrual of future benefits from 31 March 2013 with the defined contribution section remaining open until April 2017, when the Legal & General mastertrust was provided to all UK employees.
Pension scheme obligations and costs are determined by an independent qualified actuary on a regular basis using the projected unit credit method.
The obligations are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme and are reflected in the Group balance sheet.
Overseas LCH Group also operates a retirement indemnity and long-service award schemes in Paris, for which the scheme obligations are calculated by an independent qualified actuary.
They also operate an independent defined benefit scheme in Porto, assumed in 2006.
Updated valuations of these funds are carried out by an independent qualified actuary.
The TFR operated by the Italian group is classified as an unfunded defined benefit scheme for funds accumulated prior to 1 July 2007.
The service cost, representing deferred salaries accruing to employees, was included as an operating expense and was determined by law at 6.91% of salary payments subject to certain adjustments.
The scheme obligation comprises accumulated service costs and is revalued by law at a rate equal to 75% of national life price index 1.5% by an independent qualified actuary.
Since 1 July 2007, the Group retains no obligation, as contributions are made directly into Italian state funds in the manner of a defined contribution scheme.
The employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT is classified as an unfunded defined benefit plan.
The net obligation in respect of this plan is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
Once an employee is continuously employed for more than 5 years, he or she is entitled to a payment equivalent to half a months gross salary multiplied by the number of years in service at MillenniumIT.
The principal risks to which the defined benefit schemes expose the Group arises from an increase in pension liability.
The pension liabilities could increase in the following circumstances: if increases in the plan liabilities are not accompanied by corresponding increases in the plan assets if investment returns are lower than assumed in assessing the adequacy of plans if the salaries of active members increase more rapidly than assumed, increasing liabilities if inflation is higher than expected, increasing liabilities through indexing of pension payments: and the risk that members live longer than expected, increasing the length of time for which pensions have to be paid, potentially due to a medical breakthrough Such an increase in pension liabilities could lead to an increase in pension deficit.
Defined benefit schemes are normally revalued by actuaries every 3 years.
Where any material funding gap is identified by this process, the Trustees will agree a schedule of contributions with the sponsor company.
Such contributions would result in financial impact to the Group.
In addition with regard to the LSERP, the Group is exposed to the credit of the buy-in insurance provider.
A failure of the buy-in insurance provider would reduce the pension assets and could thus also lead to a pension deficit or an increase in pension deficit and the need for contributions from the Group.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 139 Defined contribution schemes In the UK, the only pension scheme open to employees is a defined contribution scheme, provided by Legal & General.
Following a pension consultation, from April 2017, all UK employees are eligible to participate in the same pension scheme.
A core contribution of 8% of basic salary is paid by the Group, who will also match employee contributions up to 4% of basic salary.
Amounts recognised in the income statement from continuing operations are as follows: 2017 2016 LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total Notes m m m m m m m m Defined contribution schemes 5 4 9 18 3 5 6 14 Defined benefit scheme current service cost and expenses 1 1 7 9 1 1 5 7 Total pension charge included in employee costs 6 6 5 16 27 4 6 11 21 Net finance expense income 8 2 2 1 1 1 1 Total recognised in the income statement 8 5 16 29 5 5 12 22 Defined benefit assets obligations for pension schemes: 2017 2016 LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Fair value of assets: Equities quoted 114 114 104 104 Bonds quoted 163 148 1 312 153 149 1 303 Property 5 5 4 4 Cash 4 2 6 1 2 3 Pensioner buy in policy 184 184 192 192 Total fair value of assets 356 264 1 621 350 255 1 606 Present value of funded obligations 376 208 17 601 410 253 16 679 Deficit surplus 20 56 16 20 60 2 15 73 As at 31 December 2017, the Group has recognised a net defined benefit asset of 56 million 2016: 2 million asset in relation to the LCH UK scheme on the basis that the Group has access to the surplus in the event of wind up of the scheme and therefore no asset ceiling has been applied to the net surplus recognised.
Further, no minimum funding commitments are associated with the plan.
UK pension plan actuarial assumptions are set out below: 2017 2016 LSERP LCH UK LSERP LCH UK Inflation rate RPI 3.1% 3.2% 3.3% 3.3% Inflation rate CPI 1.9% 2.0% 2.3% 2.3% Rate of increase in salaries 3.1% n a 3.3% n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.6% 2.2% 3.6% 2.3% Discount rate 2.7% 2.8% 2.7% 2.7% Life expectancy from age 60 years Non-retired male member 28.3 28.2 28.8 29.7 Non-retired female member 30.6 30.5 30.5 32.2 Retired male member 27.3 27.6 27.4 28.1 Retired female member 29.4 29.3 29.3 30.4 The mortality assumptions are based on S2PA tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries adjusted to take account of projected future improvements in life expectancy from the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS mortality survey, which was published in 2008.
We have used an allowance for CMI 2016 projections and applied a 1.25% for male and female long term trend rate in respect of future mortality improvements.
Sensitivities The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the LSERP and LCH UK scheme obligations are: 2017 2016 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme obligations Impact on scheme obligations LSERP LCH UK LSERP LCH UK Inflation rate CPI and salary increase Increase by 0.5% Increase by 7m Increase by 6m Increase by 9m Increase by 12m Rate of increase in pensions payment Increase by 0.5% Increase by 24m Increase by 13m Increase by 32m Increase by 20m Discount rate Increase by 0.5% Reduce by 29m Reduce by 22m Reduce by 37m Reduce by 38m Mortality rate Increase by 1 year Increase by 14m Increase by 6m Increase by 16m Increase by 8m The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligations as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
The impact of the salary increase assumption as a standalone sensitivity has an immaterial impact on the scheme obligations.
140 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations during the year 2017 2016 LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation as at beginning of year 410 253 16 679 323 174 12 509 Pension expense: Current service cost 7 7 5 5 Interest cost 11 7 18 12 7 1 20 Subtotal included in the income statement 11 7 7 25 12 7 6 25 Re-measurement gains losses: Actuarial gains losses financial assumptions 9 11 1 21 91 77 168 Actuarial gains losses demographic assumptions 13 11 24 2 3 1 Actuarial gains losses experience 6 22 28 5 5 Subtotal included in total comprehensive income 28 44 1 73 88 74 162 Benefits paid 17 7 5 29 13 5 4 22 Foreign exchange 1 1 3 2 5 Benefit obligation as at end of year 376 208 17 601 410 253 16 679 Movement in fair value of scheme assets during the year 2017 2016 LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total LSERP LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets as at beginning of year 350 255 1 606 294 199 1 494 Pension income: Interest income 9 7 16 11 8 19 Subtotal included in the income statement 9 7 16 11 8 19 Re-measurement gains: Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 11 9 20 55 49 104 Subtotal included in total comprehensive income 11 9 20 55 49 104 Contributions by employer 4 4 4 2 6 Expenses 1 1 1 1 Benefits paid 17 7 24 13 5 18 Foreign exchange 2 2 Fair value of scheme assets as at end of year 356 264 1 621 350 255 1 606 The actual gain on plan assets was 36 million 2016: 123 million.
Defined benefit actuarial gains and losses recognised The experience adjustments and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions of the pension scheme during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
2017 2016 LSERP LCH UK Other plans LSERP LCH UK Other plans m m m m m m Recognised up to beginning year 68 9 35 16 Net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year 39 53 1 33 25 Cumulative amount recognised at end of year 29 44 1 68 9 The last actuarial valuation of the LSERP defined benefit scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2015 by an independent qualified actuary.
According to the schedule of contributions of this valuation the Group has funded its defined benefit scheme deficit with payments of 2 million in 2015, 3 million in 2016 and 3 million in 2017 with funding commitments of 2 million per annum in years 2018 to 2022.
The last actuarial valuation of the LCH UK defined benefit scheme was carried out as at 30 June 2013 by an independent qualified actuary.
LCH section is currently in discussion on the results of the valuation as at 31 December 2016, which is being finalised and which may result in an adjustment to future contributions to the plan.
The weighted average duration of the LSERP and LCH UK defined benefit obligations at the end of the reporting period is estimated to be 17 years and 22 years, respectively.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 141 19.
Financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments by category The financial instruments of the Group and Company are categorised as follows: Group Company 31 December 2017 Financial Financial Available for instruments instruments sale at fair at fair value at fair value Loans and value through through profit Loans and through profit receivables OCI or loss Total receivables or loss Total m m m m m m m Financial assets Financial assets of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading assets 98,076 549,874 647,950 Other receivables from clearing members 3,303 3,303 Other financial assets 18,436 3,665 22,101 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 61,443 61,443 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 162,822 18,436 553,539 734,797 Trade and other receivables 702 702 646 646 Cash and cash equivalents 1,381 1,381 4 4 Available for sale financial assets 105 105 Derivative financial instruments 4 4 4 4 Total 164,905 18,541 553,543 736,989 650 4 654 There were no transfers between categories during the year.
Prepayments within trade and other receivables are not classified as financial instruments.
Group Company 31 December 2017 Financial Financial liabilities at liabilities at Financial fair value Financial fair value liabilities at through profit liabilities at through profit amortised cost and loss Total amortised cost and loss Total m m m m m m Financial liabilities Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading liabilities 98,076 549,874 647,950 Other payables to clearing members 87,031 87,031 Total financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 185,107 549,874 734,981 Trade and other payables 502 18 520 275 275 Borrowings 1,953 1,953 1,921 1,921 Provisions 10 10 Derivative financial instruments 29 29 29 29 Total 187,572 549,921 737,493 2,196 29 2,225 There were no transfers between categories during the year.
Deferred income, social security and other tax liabilities within trade and other payables are not classified as financial instruments.
The financial instruments of the Group and Company at the previous years balance sheet date were as follows: Group Company 31 December 2016 re-presented Financial Available for instruments sale at fair at fair value Loans and value through through profit Loans and receivables OCI or loss Total receivables Total m m m m m m Financial assets Financial assets of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading assets 149,831 320,530 470,361 Other receivables from clearing members 9,077 9,077 Other financial assets 15,975 9,420 25,395 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 53,553 53,553 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 212,461 15,975 329,950 558,386 Trade and other receivables 686 686 481 481 Cash and cash equivalents 1,151 1,151 1 1 Available for sale financial assets 102 102 Total 214,298 16,077 329,950 560,325 482 482 There were no transfers between categories during the prior year.
142 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Consistent with the current year treatment, prepayments within trade and other receivables are not classified as financial instruments.
The comparative table above has been re-presented from that previously disclosed to reflect this treatment.
Group Company 31 December 2016 re-presented Financial Financial liabilities at liabilities at Financial fair value Financial fair value liabilities at through profit liabilities at through profit amortised cost and loss Total amortised cost and loss Total m m m m m m Financial liabilities Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading liabilities 149,831 320,530 470,361 Other payables to clearing members 88,117 88,117 Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 237,948 320,530 558,478 Trade and other payables 527 18 545 204 204 Borrowings 1,166 1,166 821 821 Provisions 11 11 Derivative financial instruments 19 19 19 19 Total 239,652 320,567 560,219 1,025 19 1,044 There were no transfers between categories during the prior year.
Consistent with the current year treatment, deferred income, social security and other tax liabilities within trade and other payables are not classified as financial instruments.
Within trade and other payables, a deferred consideration liability amounting to 30 million as at 31 December 2016 has been re-presented from financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss to amortised cost, to reflect the measurement principles applied to the balance.
The comparative table above has been re-presented from that previously disclosed to reflect these treatments.
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2017: Group 31 December 2017 Quoted prices Significant Significant in active observable unobservable markets inputs inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value: CCP trading assets: Derivative instruments 5,834 1,557 7,391 Non-derivative instruments 14 542,469 542,483 Other financial assets 22,101 22,101 Fair value of CCP clearing business assets 27,949 544,026 571,975 Available for sale financial assets 105 105 Derivatives used for hedging: Cross currency interest rate swaps 4 4 The Company had derivative assets of 4 million 2016: nil.
All derivatives assets in the Company are cross currency swaps and are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
Group 31 December 2017 Quoted prices Significant Significant in active observable unobservable markets inputs inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value m m m m Financial liabilities measured at fair value: CCP trading liabilities: Derivative instruments 5,834 1,557 7,391 Non-derivative instruments 14 542,469 542,483 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 5,848 544,026 549,874 Deferred consideration 18 18 Derivatives used for hedging: Cross currency interest rate swaps 29 29 The Company had derivative liabilities of 29 million 2016: 19 million.
All derivative liabilities in the Company are cross-currency interest rate swaps and are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 143 The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2016: Group 31 December 2016 re-presented Quoted prices Significant Significant in active observable unobservable markets inputs inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value: CCP trading assets: Derivative instruments 5,887 2,367 8,254 Non-derivative instruments 2 312,274 312,276 Other financial assets 25,395 25,395 Fair value of CCP clearing business assets 31,284 314,641 345,925 Available for sale financial assets 95 7 102 Within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, 2,367 million of CCP non-derivative instruments have been re-presented as derivative instruments.
Group 31 December 2016 re-presented Quoted prices Significant Significant in active observable unobservable markets inputs inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value m m m m Financial liabilities measured at fair value: CCP trading liabilities: Derivative instruments 5,887 2,367 8,254 Non-derivative instruments 2 312,274 312,276 Fair value of CCP clearing business liabilities 5,889 314,641 320,530 1 Deferred consideration 18 18 Derivatives used for hedging: Cross currency interest rate swaps 19 19 1.
In the hierarchy for determining fair value, the Group has re-presented 18 million of deferred consideration liabilities in relation to the purchase of non-controlling interests of acquired subsidiaries, from Level 2 to Level 3 to reflect the measurement principles applied to the balances Within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, 2,367 million of CCP non-derivative instruments have been re-presented as derivative instruments.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs, which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data For assets and liabilities classified as Level 1, the fair value is based on market price quotations at the reporting date.
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 2, the fair value is calculated using one or more valuation techniques e. g. the market approach or the income approach with market observable inputs.
The selection of the appropriate valuation techniques may be affected by the availability of the relevant inputs as well as the reliability of the inputs.
The inputs may include currency rates, interest rate and forward rate curves and net asset values.
The results of the application of the various techniques may not be equally representative of fair value, due to factors such as assumptions made in the valuation.
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the current and prior period.
When observable market data is not available, the Group uses one or more valuation techniques e. g. the market approach or the income approach for which sufficient and reliable data is available.
These inputs used in estimating the fair value of Level 3 financial instruments include expected timing and level of future cash flows, timing of settlement, discount rates and net asset values of certain investments.
The Group has classified deferred consideration in relation to put options over the non-controlling interests of subsidiaries as Level 3 in the hierarchy for determining the fair value, due to the significant inputs used in the valuation that are not based on observable data.
The valuation of the deferred consideration is set out in the terms of the option agreement, where the cash flow forecasts of the underlying business over the deferred consideration payment period are discounted at the Groups pre-tax cost of debt.
The key inputs into the valuation of the deferred consideration are cash flow forecasts over a 5 year period from the date of acquisition and the discount rate.
A 10% increase or decrease in the total cash flows or a 1% change in the discount rate applied would not have a material effect on the valuation of the amounts payable.
The Group does not consider there to be any alternative assumptions that will be used in the valuation of the liability.
With the exception of Group borrowings, management has assessed that the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities categorised as Loans and receivables and Financial liabilities at amortised cost approximate their carrying values.
The fair value of the Groups borrowings is disclosed in Note 24.
The Groups financial assets and liabilities held at fair value consist largely of securities restricted in use for the operations of the Groups CCPs as managers of their respective clearing and guarantee systems.
The nature and composition of the CCP clearing business assets and liabilities are explained in the accounting policies section in Note 1.
144 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements As at 31 December 2017, there were no provisions for impairment in relation to any of the CCP financial assets 2016: nil and none of these assets were past due 2016: nil.
Hedging activities and derivatives During the year the Company issued 1 billion of bonds in two 500 million tranches maturing in 2024 and 2029.
At the same time 700 million of these bonds was swapped on a coordinated basis into US$836 million through a series of 9 cross currency interest rate swaps.
As at 31 December 2017, derivative financial assets of 4 million 2016: nil represents the fair value of these cross currency interest rate swaps.
These instruments effectively exchange some of the obligations and coupons of the 2024 and 2029 500 million bonds from Euros into US Dollars in order to more closely match the currency of borrowings to the Groups currency of borrowings to the currency of its net assets and earnings.
These swaps have been designated as a hedge of the Groups net investments in its US Dollar reporting subsidiaries and qualify for effective hedge accounting.
The remaining 300 million of bonds outstanding remain in place as a hedge of the Groups net investments in Euro denominated subsidiaries and qualify for effective hedge accounting.
Derivative financial liabilities of 29 million 2016: 19 million represents the fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps comprising 6 contracts totalling 300 million notional 2016: 300 million.
These instruments effectively exchange the obligations and coupons of the 2019 250 million bond from Sterling into Euros in order to more closely match the currency of borrowings to the Groups currency of net assets and earnings.
This also results in a reduction in balance sheet translation exposure on Euro denominated net assets and the protection of Sterling cash flows.
These swaps have been designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in the Italian group and qualify for effective hedge accounting.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group recognised a net 5 million loss on mark to market valuation and settlement of these derivatives in reserves 2016: 54 million loss.
Foreign exchange forward contracts were arranged during the year to hedge the fair value of Euro and US Dollar denominated exposures.
These contracts forward buy and sell payables and receivables denominated in Euro and US Dollar, with the mark to market adjustments offsetting the revaluation of the underlying hedged item in the income statement.
They also offer more predictable cash flows to the Group at maturity.
At 31 December 2017, payables of 19 million 2016: nil and US$10 million 2016: US$13 million were hedged forward into the next financial year.
The market value of the derivatives was nil 2016: nil in aggregate.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The Group reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis on the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
The following table shows the impact of netting arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2017: Gross Amount Net amount as 31 December 2017 amounts offset reported m m m Other financial assets 980,465 973,067 7,398 Repurchase agreements 729,833 89,281 640,552 Total assets 1,710,298 1,062,348 647,950 Other financial liabilities 1,000,100 992,702 7,398 Reverse repurchase agreements 729,833 89,281 640,552 Total liabilities 1,729,933 1,081,983 647,950 The impact of netting arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2016 is as follows: Gross Amount Net amount as 31 December 2016 restated amounts offset reported m m m Other financial assets 1,862,771 1,854,514 8,257 Repurchase agreements 501,749 189,476 312,273 Total assets 2,364,520 2,043,990 320,530 Other financial liabilities 1,863,777 1,855,520 8,257 Reverse repurchase agreements 501,749 189,476 312,273 Total liabilities 2,365,526 2,044,996 320,530 All offset amounts are held in the CCP trading assets and CCP trading liabilities within the Groups financial instruments.
An extensive review of the member balances, and the amounts offset to arrive at the net balances reported, has been undertaken.
This has resulted in updates to the offsetting approach and the identification of adjustments in relation to the application of the Groups policies.
The gross amounts and amounts offset in relation to other financial assets and liabilities have been amended from those previously reported at 31 December 2016.
There has been no impact to the net amount reported in the balance sheet, amounts reported in the income statement, cash flow statement or any other disclosures in the financial statements.
Additionally, changes in the basis of netting during the year have resulted in measurements that are more representative of fair value and additional balances being included in the total.
As CCPs, the Groups operating companies sit in the middle of members transactions and hold default funds and margin amounts as a contingency against the default of a member.
As such, further amounts are available to offset in the event of a default reducing the asset and liability of 647,950 million 2016: 320,530 million to nil.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 145 21.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Notes m m m m Non-current Deferred consideration 52 83 Amounts due from Group companies 33 37 12 Amounts due from associates 33 3 Other receivables 3 2 55 88 37 12 Current Trade receivables 326 268 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 21 13 Trade receivables net 305 255 Amounts due from Group companies 33 566 436 Amounts due from associates 33 15 3 Group relief receivable 41 25 Deferred consideration 51 25 Other receivables 135 175 2 5 Prepayments 41 39 1 5 Accrued income 156 128 688 637 610 474 Total 743 725 647 486 The carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of fair values.
Trade receivables that are not past due are not considered to be impaired as at 31 December 2017.
These balances are spread across a number of high quality counterparties.
The ageing of past due trade receivables for the Group is as follows: 2017 2016 Impaired Not impaired Impaired Not impaired m m m m 0 to 3 months past due 3 78 1 61 Greater than 3 months past due 18 86 12 59 21 164 13 120 The carrying amount of the Groups current trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2017 2016 m m Sterling 217 168 Euro 157 199 US Dollar 296 236 Other currencies 18 34 688 637 Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2017 2016 m m 1 January 13 6 Provision for impairment of receivables 10 7 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 2 1 Foreign exchange 1 31 December 21 13 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating expenses in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables and the other categories of financial assets do not contain impaired assets.
146 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 22.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Cash at bank 578 596 4 1 Short-term deposits 803 555 1,381 1,151 4 1 Cash and cash equivalents are held with authorised counterparties of a high credit standing, in secured investments at LCH Group companies and at CC&G and unsecured interest bearing current and call accounts, short-term deposits and AAA rated money market funds elsewhere in the Group.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by the counterparties holding cash and cash equivalents, and there are no material differences between their book and fair values.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include amounts held by certain subsidiaries on behalf of their clearing members, the use of which is restricted to the operation of the clearers as managers of the clearing and guarantee system see Note 19.
At 31 December 2017, cash and cash equivalents shown above include 1,042 million 2016: 848 million of amounts held by regulated entities for regulatory and operational purposes.
Total amounts set aside for regulatory and operational purposes include current assets held at fair value of 19 million 2016: 74 million and non-current assets held at fair value of 86 million 2016: 21 million.
All amounts are subject to regular reviews with regulators in the UK, France and Italy.
Trade and other payables Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Note m m m m Non-current Deferred consideration 38 52 Other non-current payables 11 14 49 66 Current Trade payables 50 105 Amounts owed to Group companies 33 251 169 Social security and other taxes 23 23 Other payables 128 146 16 13 Accruals 293 228 8 22 Deferred income 104 99 598 601 275 204 Total 647 667 275 204 24.
Borrowings Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Current Bank borrowings 522 466 490 274 Preferred securities 153 522 619 490 274 Non-current Bonds 1,431 547 1,431 547 Total 1,953 1,166 1,921 821 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 147 The Group has the following committed bank facilities and unsecured notes: Carrying value Interest rate at 31 percentage at December 31 December Notes Facility 2017 2017 Type Expiry Date m m % Drawn value of Facilities Multi-currency revolving credit facility Nov 2022 600 369 LIBOR 0.45 Multi-currency revolving credit facility Dec 2022 600 153 LIBOR 0.3 Total Bank Facilities 522 Bond due October 2019 Oct 2019 250 249 9.125 Bond due November 2021 Nov 2021 300 298 4.75 Bond due September 2024 Sep 2024 444 443 0.875 Bond due September 2029 Sep 2029 444 441 1.75 Total Bonds 1,431 Total Committed Facilities 1,953 The carrying value of drawn bank facilities and bonds at 31 December 2017 was 522 million 2016: 466 million and 1,431 million 2016: 547 million, respectively.
The prior year included 153 million in preferred securities.
Current borrowings The Group retained total committed bank facilities of 1,200 million during the financial year.
A new facility of 600 million was arranged on improved terms whilst an existing facility, also of 600 million, was extended for a further year to November 2022.
The new facility is a 5 year commitment with two 1 year extension options available to the Group, subject to lender approval.
These facilities were partially drawn at 31 December 2017 with carrying value of 522 million 2016: 465 million which includes 3 million of deferred arrangement fees 2016: 2 million.
In May 2017, LCH Group exercised its call option on the net 180 million Perpetual Preferred Securities previously issued through Freshwater Finance plc, and repaid the outstanding amount using a combination of free cash and Group committed bank facilities.
The coupon on these securities was fixed at 6.576% per annum with interest paid annually.
Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A CC&G has direct intra-day access to refinancing with the Bank of Italy to cover its operational liquidity requirements in the event of a market stress or participant failure.
In addition, it has arranged commercial bank back-up credit lines with a number of commercial banks, which totalled 420 million at 31 December 2017 2016: 420 million, for overnight and longer durations to broaden its liquidity resources consistent with requirements under the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR.
LCH S. A. has a French banking licence and is able to access refinancing at the European Central Bank to support its liquidity position.
LCH Limited is deemed to have sufficient fungible liquid assets to maintain an appropriate liquidity position, and has direct access to certain central bank facilities to support its liquidity risk management in accordance with the requirements under the EMIR.
In accordance with the Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures CPMI, International Organization of Securities Commissions IOSCO and Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures PFMIs, many Central Banks now provide for CCPs to apply for access to certain Central Bank facilities.
In addition, a number of Group entities have access to uncommitted operational, money market and overdraft facilities which support post trade activities and day to day liquidity requirements across its operations.
Non-current borrowings In June 2009, the Company issued a 250 million bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in October 2019.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.548 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on the Companys credit ratings with Moodys and Standard & Poors, both of which improved during the year by 1 notch to A3 and Arespectively.
The bond coupon remained at 9.125% per annum throughout the financial year.
In November 2012, the Company issued a 300 million bond under its Euro Medium Term Notes Programme launched at the same time which is unsecured and is due for repayment in November 2021.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in May and November each year.
The issue price of the bond was 100 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is fixed at 4.75% per annum.
In September 2017, the Company issued 1 billion of bonds in two 500 million tranches under its updated Euro Medium Term Notes Programme.
The bonds are unsecured and the tranches are due for repayment in September 2024 and September 2029 respectively.
Interest is paid annually in arrears in September each year.
The issue prices of the bonds were 99.602 per 100 nominal for the 2024 tranche and 99.507 per 100 nominal for the 2029 tranche.
The coupon on the respective tranches is fixed at 0.875% per annum and 1.75% per annum respectively.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups borrowings are as follows: 2017 2016 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Group m m m m Borrowings within 1 year 522 522 619 626 after more than 1 year 1,431 1,520 547 643 1,953 2,042 1,166 1,269 148 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements The fair values of the Companys borrowings are as follows: 2017 2016 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Company m m m m Borrowings within 1 year 490 490 274 274 after more than 1 year 1,431 1,520 547 643 1,921 2,010 821 917 Borrowings are classified as Level 2 in the Groups hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments.
The fair values of borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a rate based on borrowing cost.
Floating rate borrowings bear interest at an agreed margin over LIBOR.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2017 2016 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 1,032 267 765 713 256 457 Euro 921 355 566 352 256 608 US Dollar 622 622 101 101 Total 1,953 1,953 1,166 1,166 The carrying amounts of the Companys borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2017 2016 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 1,032 267 765 713 256 457 Euro 889 355 534 75 256 331 US Dollar 622 622 33 33 Total 1,921 1,921 821 821 25.
Analysis of net debt Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Due within 1 year Cash and cash equivalents 1,381 1,151 4 1 Bank borrowings 522 466 490 274 Preferred securities 153 859 532 486 273 Due after 1 year Bonds 1,431 547 1,431 547 Derivative financial assets 4 4 Derivative financial liabilities 29 19 29 19 Total net debt 597 34 1,942 839 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Increase decrease in cash in the year 216 213 3 Bond issue proceeds 885 885 Redemption of preferred securities 157 Bond repayment 250 250 Additional drawdowns from bank credit facilities 242 317 215 275 Repayments made towards bank credit facilities 87 614 2 105 Utilisation of drawn funds for financing activities 103 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 564 334 1,101 80 Foreign exchange movements 2 152 2 15 Movement on derivative financial assets and liabilities 6 67 6 67 Bond valuation adjustment 5 1 5 1 Movement in bank credit facility arrangement fees 1 1 Reclassification of cash to assets held for sale 1 Cash disposed of as part of discontinued operations 185 Net debt at the start of the year 34 637 839 836 Net debt at the end of the year 597 34 1,942 839 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 149 26.
Provisions Property Group m 1 January 2017 11 Utilised during the year 1 Unwinding of discount on provision 1 Provisions no longer required 2 Additional charge in the year 1 31 December 2017 10 Current 1 Non-current 9 31 December 2017 10 The property provision represents the estimated net present value of future costs for lease rentals and dilapidation costs less the expected receipts from sub-letting space which is surplus to business requirements.
The leases have between 1 and 11 years to expiry.
The Company has no provisions 2016: nil.
Share capital and share premium Ordinary shares issued and fully paid Number of shares Ordinary Share 1 millions shares premium Total 1 January 2016 348 24 960 984 Issue of shares to the Employee Benefit Trust 2 1 1 31 December 2016 350 24 961 985 Issue of shares to the Employee Benefit Trust 3 3 31 December 2017 350 24 964 988 79 86 1.
Ordinary Shares of 6 pence 79 86 The Board approved the allotment and issue of 224,965 ordinary shares of par value 6 pence at a weighted average exercise price of 1,251 pence to the Employee 79 86 Benefit Trust 2016: 180,308 ordinary shares of par value 6 pence at 755.34 pence, to settle employee Save As You Earn share plans.
This generated a premium of 3 million 2016: 1 million.
Included within the current year Ordinary Share Capital of 350 million shares are 4 million treasury shares, recorded at par.
150 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 28.
Net cash flow generated from operations Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Notes m m m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 564 364 18 517 Loss profit before tax from discontinued operations 10 23 104 Profit before taxation 541 468 18 517 Adjustments for depreciation, amortisation and impairments: Depreciation and amortisation 13, 14 255 233 Impairment of software 14 8 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 1 Adjustments for other non-cash items: Profit on disposal of businesses 7 7 Loss profit on disposal of investment in subsidiary 10 23 76 Gain on disposal of financial assets 7 1 Other gains losses on disposal of assets 2 1 Share of loss of associates 15 9 5 Impairment of investment in associate 15 14 Net finance expense 8 62 63 45 37 Share scheme expense 6 38 37 Movement in pensions and provisions 31 2 Net foreign exchange differences 103 10 1 17 Dividend income 33 142 705 Movements in working capital: Decrease in inventories 1 1 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 36 215 30 37 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 47 66 47 39 Movement in other assets and liabilities relating to operations: Increase in CCP financial assets 162,005 30,385 Increase in CCP financial liabilities 162,095 30,506 Increase in assets held at fair value 3 Movement in derivative assets and liabilities 6 67 6 67 Purchase of investment fund 19 Unrealised gain loss on the revaluation of financial assets 3 2 Cash generated from operations 852 618 17 65 Comprising: Ongoing operating activities 1,130 802 30 25 Non-underlying items 278 184 13 40 852 618 17 65 Comparatives have been reclassified to align prior year disclosure to the current year.
Movement in financial liabilities arising from financing activities: As at 1 Acquisition Foreign 31 December January 2017 Cash flows of businesses exchange Other 2017 m m m m m m Bank borrowings 466 52 2 2 522 Preferred securities 153 157 4 Bonds 547 885 3 8 1,427 Finance lease liabilities 10 3 7 Derivative financial instruments 19 1 5 25 1,185 780 10 10 4 1,981 29.
Commitments and contingencies The Group had commitments of nil as at 31 December 2017 2016: 54 million.
The amounts for the prior year relate to professional fees on the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse.
The amounts were payable on the successful completion of the merger.
As at 31 December 2017, contracted capital commitments and other contracted commitments not provided for in the financial statements of the Group and the Company were nil 2016: nil and nil 2016: 21 million, respectively.
In the normal course of business, the Group and the Company receive legal claims in respect of commercial, employment and other matters.
Where a claim is more likely than not to result in an economic outflow of benefits from the Group or the Company, a provision is made representing the expected cost of settling such claims.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 151 30. Business combinations Acquisitions in the year to 31 December 2017 The Group made 2 acquisitions in the year ended 31 December 2017.
On 3 January 2017, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Mergent, a leading global provider of business and financial information on public and private companies.
The cash consideration paid by the Group at completion was US$146 million 118 million and US$1 million 1 million was paid on finalisation of the purchase price exercise.
The acquisition will support the growth of FTSE Russells core index offering, supplying underlying data and analytics for the creation of a wide range of indexes.
On 31 August 2017, the Group acquired the entire share capital of The Yield Book business, a leading global provider of fixed income indexes and analytics.
The cash consideration paid by the Group at completion was US$679 million 525 million.
The acquisition enhances and complements LSEGs Information Services data and analytics offering, building on FTSE Russells US market presence and fixed income client base globally.
Group contribution post acquisition Fair value of Date Total assets Operating acquired investment Goodwill acquired Revenue profit Acquisition m m m m m m Mergent 3 January 2017 119 74 45 29 Yield Book 31 August 2017 525 215 310 29 11 644 289 355 58 11 The Group acquired Mergent on 3 January 2017.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017, the results of the additional period of ownership would have had an immaterial impact on the Groups revenue and operating profit from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2017.
If The Yield Book acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017, the Group revenue from continuing operations for the year would have been 1,823 million, with operating profit before acquisition amortisation and non-underlying items of 834 million.
These amounts have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies and based on available information.
In the year ended 31 December 2017, a total of 9 million transaction costs in respect of both acquisitions have been recognised as a non-underlying expense in the Group income statement.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities arising out of each acquisition at the relevant acquisition date are as follows: Mergent Yield Book Total Fair value Fair value Fair value Notes m m m Non-current assets: Intangible assets 14 80 307 387 Property, plant and equipment 13 2 2 Deferred tax assets 4 2 6 Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 1 3 4 Other current assets 7 11 18 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 14 15 29 Non-current liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities 26 26 Other non-current payables 7 7 Net assets 45 310 355 Goodwill 14 74 215 289 119 525 644 Satisfied by: Cash 119 525 644 Total investment 119 525 644 The valuation of the acquisition of Mergent was finalised in the year and resulted in no change to the fair values attributed on acquisition.
The fair values attributed to The Yield Book acquisition are preliminary and will be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The fair value adjustments are explained below: Mergent The Group recognised 69 million of purchased intangible assets arising on acquisition representing 54 million attributable to customer relationships, 14 million attributable to various technologies and 1 million relating to brands and trade names.
The deferred tax liability arising on the recognition of these intangible assets was 19 million.
The fair values of these purchased intangible assets are being amortised over their remaining useful lives from the date of completion.
The goodwill of 74 million arising on consolidation represents the growth of future expected income streams from Mergents customer base and development of the Groups product offering, along with the assembled workforce and value of expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
The goodwill recognised is not deductible for tax purposes.
152 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements The Yield Book and Citi Fixed Income Indices The Group recognised 307 million of intangible assets arising on acquisition representing 97 million attributable to customer relationships, 154 million attributable to various technologies and 56 million relating to brands and trade names.
The goodwill of 215 million arising on consolidation represents the growth of future expected income streams from the integration of Yield Books enhanced data and analytics capabilities to better serve the Groups global customer base, and the value of the assembled workforce and expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
An election has been made to treat the goodwill arising on acquisition to be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisitions in the year to 31 December 2016 The Group made 1 acquisition in the year ended 31 December 2016.
Turquoise SwapMatch Limited On 11 July 2016, the Group acquired a 50% equity shareholding in Turquoise SwapMatch Limited SwapMatch for a cash consideration of 1 million.
The main activity of SwapMatch is to provide a neutral platform allowing prime brokers to match and net off synthetic equity positions with other brokers.
The fair value of net assets acquired was nil and the Group recognised 1 million in goodwill.
Immediately following the acquisition, the Group made a 1 million cash investment in exchange for an additional 10% equity in SwapMatch.
The valuation on the acquisition of SwapMatch was finalised during the current year and resulted in no change to the fair values attributed on acquisition.
During the current year, the Group purchased the remaining 40% equity interest of SwapMatch it did not already own.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group holds a financial liability representing the fair value of associated earn out payments attached to the transaction.
Leases Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group leases various office properties under non-cancellable operating leases.
The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows: Property 2017 2016 Leases expiring in: m m Less than 1 year 33 30 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 111 109 More than 5 years 54 77 198 216 Operating lease payments of 32 million 2016: 30 million were charged to the income statement in the year in relation to property.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The total future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases for property where the Group is lessor are due as follows: Property 2017 2016 Leases expiring in: m m Less than 1 year 5 7 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 13 21 More than 5 years 3 5 21 33 Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has finance lease contracts for certain property rentals and distribution licences.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 2017 2016 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments Leases expiring in: m m m m Less than 1 year 3 3 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 4 4 Total minimum lease payments 7 7 Less amounts representing finance charges Present value of minimum lease payments 7 7 The Company has no lease commitments 2016: none.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 153 Finance lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has finance lease contracts for certain property rentals and software licences.
Future minimum lease payments receivable under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 2017 2016 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments Leases expiring in: m m m m Less than 1 year 1 1 More than 1 year but less than 5 years 1 1 Total minimum lease payments 2 2 Less amounts representing finance charges Present value of minimum lease payments 2 2 The Company has no lease commitments 2016: none.
Share schemes The London Stock Exchange Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved at the 2016 AGM, has 2 elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares the latter element is not applicable to executive directors.
Vesting of these awards is dependent upon the Companys total shareholder return performance and adjusted basic earnings per share.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 94.
Awards are granted at nil cost to employees.
The SAYE Scheme and International Sharesave Plan provide for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYE savings contract and options were granted at 20 per cent below fair market value during the year.
The Group has an employee benefit discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire the shares to meet commitments to Group employees.
At the year end, 944,495 2016: 376,456 shares were held by the trust, funded in part by an interest free loan from the Group and in part by the issue of 224,965 2016: 1,930,380 shares and transfer of 1,757,774 2016: nil shares held in treasury.
The Company has no employees but, in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, has the obligation for the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the employee benefit trust and these have been consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The cost of the Groups shares held by the trust are deducted from retained earnings.
154 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of awards and options outstanding are as follows: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining contractual contractual Number life Number life outstanding Years outstanding Years Share options Less than 7 100 Between 7 and 8 Between 8 and 9 1,676 3,347 SAYE Between 10 and 20 4,788 436,403 0.2 Between 20 and 30 414,144 0.5 456,439 1.0 More than 30 448,941 1.5 LTIP Nil 5,438,872 1.3 5,557,663 1.4 Total 6,308,421 1.4 6,453,952 1.4 The fair value of share awards and share options granted during the year was determined using a stochastic valuation model.
The key assumptions used in the valuation were as follows: Share Performance Shares Matching Shares Restricted Share Award Save Plan 03-Apr-17 10-Apr-17 18-Aug-17 07-Sep-17 17-Nov-17 10-Apr-17 17-Nov-17 03-Apr-17 10-Apr-17 18-Aug-17 07-Sep-17 17-Nov-17 03-Oct-17 Grant date share price 31.91 32.27 39.44 38.46 38.46 32.27 38.46 31.91 32.27 39.44 38.46 38.46 38.75 0.9 2 1.6 2 0.9 years to years to years to years to years to 3.33 Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 2.6 years 3 years 2.8 years years Exercise price n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a.
The approach adopted by the Group in determining the fair value for the Performance and Matching Shares granted during the year was based on a Total Shareholder Return pricing model which incorporates TSR and EPS performance conditions and references the vesting schedules of the awards.
For all other share awards, including the Share Save Plan, the Black-Scholes model was used.
The significant inputs into both models are the share price at grant date, expected volatility, dividend yields and annual risk-free interest rate.
The volatility assumption is based on the historical 3 year volatility as at the date of grant.
The risk-free interest rate represents the yield available on a UK zero-coupon government bond on the date of grant for a term commensurate with the vesting period of the award.
The expected life refers to the time from the date of grant to the date the awards vest.
Holders of share awards and share options are not entitled to receive dividends declared during the vesting period.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 155 33.
Transactions with related parties Key management compensation Compensation for Directors of the Company and key personnel who have authority for planning, directing and controlling the Group: 2017 2016 m m Salaries and other short-term benefits 13 15 Pensions 1 1 Share-based payments 21 18 35 34 Inter-company transactions with subsidiary undertakings The Company has loans with some subsidiary undertakings.
Details as at 31 December 2017 are shown in the table below: Amount owed to due from as at Interest Interest charge credit rate as at 31 December Loan counterparty 2017 2016 Term 2017 2017 2016 London Stock Exchange plc 130 m 111 m 25 years from May 2006 with 5 LIBOR plus 3 m 4 m equal annual repayments 2% per annum commencing in May 2027.
London Stock Exchange Employee Benefit Trust 37m 13m Repayable on demand.
Non-interest bearing London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy 13 m Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus Limited utilisation date which was April 2013.
1.5% per annum London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy 1m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus Limited utilisation date which was April 2013.
1.5% per annum London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Limited 240m 400m Tenth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 10m 18m utilisation date which was October 2009.
4.0% per annum London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Limited US$ 105 m Tenth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus US$ 1 m US$ 4 m utilisation date which was October 2009.
4.0% per annum London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Limited 1 m 44 m Tenth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus 1 m utilisation date which was October 2009.
4.0% per annum London Stock Exchange Reg Holdings Limited 1m 18m Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus utilisation date which was July 2013.
1.2% per annum London Stock Exchange Reg Holdings Limited 20m 2 m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus utilisation date which was July 2013.
1.2% per annum London Stock Exchange C Limited 19m 1 m Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus utilisation date which was May 2017.
1.5% per annum London Stock Exchange Group Holdings US$ 4 m US$ 3 m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 1.5% per Luxembourg Ltd utilisation date which was December annum 2014.
LSEG Employment Services Limited 111m 53m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 1.2% per 1m 1m utilisation date which was January 2015. annum London Stock Exchange Group Services Limited 67m 7 m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 0.9% per utilisation date which was January 2016. annum During the year, the Company charged in respect of employee share schemes 10 million 2016: 11 million to LSEG Employment Services Limited, 6 million 2016: 6 million to LCH Group, 6 million 2016: 4 million to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italia S. p. A. group of companies, 2 million 2016: 1 million to FTSE Group, 5 million 2016: 1 million to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Inc, 1 million 2016: 1 million to Millennium Group and 8 million 2016: nil million to London Stock Exchange plc.
In the current year, the Company received dividends of 142 million from London Stock Exchange plc 2016: 169 million.
In the prior year the Company received dividends of 408 million from LSEG US HoldCo Inc, 65 million from LSEGH Luxembourg Ltd and 64 million from LSE Group Holdings Italy Ltd.
The Company recognised 32 million income 2016: 61 million and 49 million expenses 2016: 42 million with Group undertakings in relation to corporate recharges.
At 31 December 2017, the Company had 106 million 2016: 107 million other receivables due from Group companies and other payables of 116 million 2016: 56 million owed to Group undertakings.
In the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group recognised 4 million revenue 2016: 2 million and nil other income from associates 2016: 1 million.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had no amounts receivable from associates 2016: 3 million non-current loan receivable and 15 million current receivable.
All transactions with associates were are carried out on an arms length basis.
156 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 34.
Events after the reporting period On 17 January 2018, the Group completed the sale of Exactpro Systems Limited and its subsidiaries Exactpro for an aggregate consideration of 6 million, comprising a purchase price of 3 million and an unconditional waiver of 3 million of deferred consideration payable to the Exactpro purchasers and recognised on the acquisition of Exactpro by the Group.
The Exactpro business was part of the Technology Services segment and was contained within a stand alone CGU.
The Group has determined that there is no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill in the Exactpro.
Details are provided in Note 10.
On 23 February 2018 the Group became committed to acquiring an additional 2.04% interest of LCH Group Holdings Limited from certain minority shareholders.
This will increase the Groups holding to 67.97%.
The aggregate consideration to be paid by the Group is 35 million.
The transaction is expected to complete in early March 2018.
Other statutory information Auditors remuneration payable to Ernst and Young LLP and its associates comprise the following: 2017 2016 m m Audit of parent and consolidated financial statements 1 1 Audit of subsidiary companies 2 2 Non-audit services 1 Total 4 3 Ernst and Young LLP provided non-audit services of 640,201: 15% of total fees 2016: 823,056: 27% of total fees.
This comprised of audit related assurance services of 463,602 2016: 422,238 and other non-audit services of 176,599 2016: 400,818.
Further details of the services provided by Ernst and Young LLP are given in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 6569.
Directors emoluments comprise the following: 2017 2016 m m Salary and fees 3 3 Performance bonus 3 3 Gains made on share awards 7 7 Benefits 1 1 14 14 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 1 1 15 15 During the year, 1 Director 2016: 1 had retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution schemes and 1 Director 2016: 1 had retirement benefits accruing under a defined benefit scheme.
Further details of Directors emoluments are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 94.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 157 Related undertakings A list of the Groups subsidiaries as at 31 December 2017 is given below including the percentage of each class held and the Groups ownership percentages.
The share ownership percentage records the percentage of each subsidiarys share capital owned within the LSEG Group.
Shares owned directly by LSEG plc are listed as being a direct shareholding, shares owned by other LSEG Group companies are listed as an indirect group interest shareholding.
Where more than 1 LSEG Group company owns shares in a subsidiary these interests have been added together.
The ultimate economic interest percentage on the other hand does not show actual share ownership.
It records LSEG plcs effective interest in the subsidiary, allowing for situations where subsidiaries are owned by partly owned intermediate subsidiaries.
All subsidiaries are consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of incorporation Registered office address Identity of Direct or Share LSEG plc each class of indirect holding ownership ultimate share held in % economic the subsidiary interest undertaking % BANQUE CENTRALE fide France 18 Rue du Quatre-Septembre, Ordinary Indirect 88.91 58.62 COMPENSATION LCH S. A.
75002, Paris, France group interest BIt Market Services S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect 99.99 99.99 Milano, Lombardia, Italy group interest Bondclear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Milano, Ordinary Indirect 99.99 99.99 Lombardia, Italy group interest Cassa Di Compensazione e Italy Via Tomacelli, 146, 00186 Rome, Italy Ordinary Indirect 100 99.99 Garanzia S. p. A. CC&G group interest CommodityClear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest Elite Club Deal Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 74.99 England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Elite S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect 75 74.99 Milano, Lombardia, Italy group interest Equityclear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest EuroMTS Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary A Indirect 100 62.53 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest EuroTLX SIM S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect 70 69.99 Milano, Lombardia, Italy group interest Exactpro Systems Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Exactpro Systems, LLC United States 4040 Civic Center Drive, Suite 200, San Rafael, Member Indirect 100 100 California, 94903, United States Interest group interest Exactpro, LLC Russian Federation Building 4, 20A 2nd Yuzhnoportoviy Proeezd, Member Indirect 100 100 Moscow, 115088, Russian Federation Interest group interest ForexClear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest Frank Russell Company United States c o CT Corporation System, 505 Union Ave SE, Suite Common Indirect 100 100 120, Olympia, Washington, 98501, United States group interest FTSE Australia Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest FTSE Beijing China Room 02D-H, 6 F Dongwai Diplomatic Building, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Consulting Limited 23 Dongzhimenwai Dajie, Beijing, China group interest FTSE Japan Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest FTSE Americas, Inc United States 80 State Street, Albany, New York, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 12207-2543, United States group interest FTSE China Index Ltd Hong Kong 6th Floor, Alexandra House, 18 Chater Road, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Central Hong Kong group interest FTSE Fixed Income LLC United States c o Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Member Indirect 100 100 Drive, Wilmington, fide, 19808, United States Interest group interest FTSE International England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 France Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest FTSE International Hong Kong 6th Floor Alexandra House, 18 Chater Road, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Hong Kong Limited Central Hong Kong group interest FTSE International England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 India Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS, group interest FTSE International England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Italy Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest FTSE International MEA Ltd United Arab Emirates Office 50, Level 15 The Gate, PO Box 121208, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Dubai, United Arab Emirates group interest FTSE International Brasil Brazil Edificio Argentina, Praia fide Botafogo 228, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Representacoes LTDA 16 andar, Sala1617, Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil group interest FTSE International Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest FTSE Mexico Sociedad fide Mexico Paseo fide los Tamarindos 400, 5 piso, Col.
Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Responsabilidad Limitada fide Bosques fide las Lomas, Mexico City, group interest Capital Variable C. P. 05120, Mexico 158 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of incorporation Registered office address Identity of Direct or Share LSEG plc each class of indirect holding ownership ultimate share held in % economic the subsidiary interest undertaking % FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Canada 70 York Street, Suite 1520, Ordinary Indirect 100 74.62 1 Markets Inc Toronto, Ontario, Canada group interest FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary A Indirect 100 72.74 1 Markets Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Ordinary B 11.03 1.88 Gatelab Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Gatelab S. r. l. Italy Via dei Pentri, 161, 86170, Isernia, Italy Ordinary Indirect 100 100 group interest Glacier Taiwan Limited Taiwan 12F, No.
Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Taipei City Taiwan group interest globeSettle S. A. Luxembourg 19 Rue fide Bitbourg, L-1273, Luxembourg Ordinary Indirect 100 100 group interest Innovative Trading Systems England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 UK Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Innovative Trading Systems, LLC Russian Federation 20A, St. 4 2nd Yuzhnoportyovy, Proezd, 115088 Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Moscow, Russian Federation group interest International Commodities England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 Clearing House Limited London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest Intrinsic Research Systems Inc. United States COGENCY GLOBAL INC. 10 East 40th Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 10th Floor New York, NY 10016 group interest LCH Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest LCH.
Clearnet Luxembourg 52 rue Charles Martel, Luxembourg, L-2134 Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 Luxembourg S. a. r. l Luxembourg group interest LCH Group Holdings Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA Non Voting group interest Ordinary 65.93 Voting LCH.
Clearnet LLC United States c o The Corporation Trust Company, Units Indirect 100 65.93 Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, group interest Wilmington, Delaware, United States LCH GP Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest LCH Pensions Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest LCH PLP Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 C Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Partnership Indirect 100 100 Connectivity Solutions LP London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Group Services Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Group Holdings Italy Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Group Holdings R Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Group Holdings Italia S. p. A Milano, Lombardia, Italy group interest London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Group Holdings Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 LEI Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest London Stock Exchange Plc England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 Reg Holdings Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEG M Financing Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest LSEG Business Services Sri Lanka Trace Expert City, Maradana, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Colombo Private Limited Colombo 10, Sri Lanka group interest LSEG Business Services Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest LSEG ELT Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest LSEG Employment England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Services Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 159 Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of incorporation Registered office address Identity of Direct or Share LSEG plc each class of indirect holding ownership ultimate share held in % economic the subsidiary interest undertaking % LSEG Information Services United States CT Corporation, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Ordinary Indirect 100 100 US, Inc. Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801 United group interest States LSEG Ireland Limited Ireland 10 Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 D02 T380 Ireland group interest LSEG LuxCo 1 S. a. r. l Luxembourg 19 Rue fide Bitbourg, L-1273 Luxembourg Ordinary Indirect 100 100 group interest LSEG LuxCo 2 S. a. r. l Luxembourg 19 Rue fide Bitbourg, L-1273 Luxembourg Ordinary Indirect 100 100 group interest LSEG Malaysia Sdn.
Malaysia Level 19-1, Menara Milenium, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Wilayah Persekutuan, Kuala Lumpur Malaysia group interest LSEG Pension Trustees Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest LSEG Technology Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest LSEG US Holdco, Inc United States c o Corporation Service Company 2711 Centerville Common Direct 100 100 Road, Wilminyton, Delaware, 19808 United States LSEGH I LLC United States c o Capital Services Inc, 1675 State Street Suite B, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Dover, Delaware, 19901 United States group interest LSEGH Luxembourg Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Direct 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS LSEGH Inc. United States c o Capital Services Inc, 1675 State Street Suite B, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Dover, Delaware, 19901 United States group interest LSEM LLC Mongolia Landmark 7th Floor, Chinggis Avenue, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia group interest March fide TitreS France MTS France 18 Rue du Quatre-Septembre, 75002, Ordinary Indirect 100 62.53 France Paris, France group interest M-CCP Holdings, Inc United States c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, group interest Delaware, United States M-CCP Parent, Inc United States c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, group interest Delaware, United States Mergent Japan K. K. Japan 12th Yurakuchoekimae Bldg.
7-1, Yurakucho Ordinary Indirect group 100 100 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo interest Mergent, Inc United States c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Ordinary Indirect group 100 100 Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, interest Delaware, United States Millennium Information India 83 C, Mittal Towers, Nariman Point, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Technologies India Mumbai -400 021, India group interest Private Limited Millennium IT USA Inc United States 1013 Centre Road, Suite 403S, Wilmington, Common Indirect 100 100 fide, 19805 group interest Millennium IT Services Sri Lanka 65 2, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Private Limited Colombo 02 Sri Lanka group interest Millennium IT Software Sri Lanka No.
01 Millennium Drive, Malabe, Sri Lanka Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Private Limited group interest Millennium Software Canada Suite 2400, 333 Bay Street, Toronto, Common Indirect 100 100 Canada Inc Ontario, Canada group interest Monte Titoli S. p. A. Italy Piazza degli Affari 6, 20123, Milano, Ordinary Indirect 98.88 98.87 Lombardia, Italy group interest MTS Markets United States 14 Wall Street Suite 4G Ordinary Indirect 100 62.53 International Inc. New York, NY, 10005 United States group interest Mercato dei Titoli di Italy Via Tomacelli, 146, 00186 Rome, Italy Ordinary Indirect 62.53 62.53 Stato S. p. A. group interest MTSNext Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 74.62 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Repoclear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, London, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest SSC Global Business Services England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Stock Exchange Holdings England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Limited The London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest SwapAgent Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest SwapClear Limited England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest The London Clearing House England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 Limited London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest London Produce Clearing England and Wales Aldgate House, 33 Aldgate High Street, Ordinary Indirect 100 65.93 House Limited The London, England and Wales, EC3N 1EA group interest 160 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of incorporation Registered office address Identity of Direct or Share LSEG plc each class of indirect holding ownership ultimate share held in % economic the subsidiary interest undertaking % The London Stock Exchange England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Retirement Plan Trustee London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Company Limited The Yield Book, Inc. United States c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Ordinary Indirect 100 100 Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, group interest Delaware, United States Turquoise Global Holdings England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary A Indirect 100 51.36 Limited London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Ordinary B Turquoise Global Holdings US, United States THE CORPORATION TRUST COMPANY, CT Ordinary Indirect 100 51.36 Inc Corporation, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange group interest Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Turquoise SwapMatch Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary A Indirect 100 51.36 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Ordinary B 100 Turquoise Trading Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 51.36 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Unavista Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, Ordinary Indirect 100 100 London, England and Wales, EC4M 7LS group interest Yield Book Software BRE LLC United States C O The Corporation Trust Company Member Indirect 100 100 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington Interest group interest fide 19801 United States Yield Book Tangible United States C O The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Member Indirect 100 100 Property BRE LLC Street, Wilmington fide 19801 United States Interest group interest 1.
The absolute indirect group interest and direct holdings by the London Stock Exchange Group is 75.75% The Groups associate undertakings were: Associate name Country of incorporation Registered office address Identity of Direct or Share Group each class of indirect holding ownership % ultimate share held in held by the economic the subsidiary Parent interest % undertaking Company Curve Global Limited England and Wales 10 Paternoster Square, London, England and Wales, Ordinary A Direct 48.32 43.38 EC4M 7LS Ordinary B MTS Associated Markets S. A. Belgium Rue des Comdiens, 1622, Ordinary Indirect 23.3 14.57 1000 Brussels, Belgium group interest The Hub Exchange Limited England and Wales 843 Finchley Road, London, Ordinary Indirect 27.35 20.51 England and Wales, NW11 8NA group interest The accounting reference dates for all of the associates are 31 December.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 161
