American p35-36 22 03 2018 09:35 Page 35 Statement of Directors Responsibilities American p35-36 22 03 2018 09:35 Page 36 S T A T E M E N T O F D I R E C T O R S R E S P O N S I B I L I T I E S The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and Manager is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial website and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors any changes that have occurred to the accounts since they were have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance initially presented on the website.
The accounts are prepared in with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from legislation United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Strategic Report, understandable, provide the information necessary for Statement of Corporate Governance and Directors Remuneration shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
business model and strategy and that they give a true and fair Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the total return page 24 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: or loss of the Company for that period.
In order to provide these the financial statements, which have been prepared in confirmations, and in preparing these financial statements, the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Directors are required to: Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, consistently: liabilities, financial position and return or loss of the make judgements and accounting estimates that are Company: and reasonable and prudent: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been and performance of the business and the position of the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Company, together with a description of the principal risks explained in the financial statements: and and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the annual report and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable continue in business and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the strategy and business model of the Company.
and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
The Board also confirms that it is satisfied that the Strategic The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Report and Directors Report include a fair review of the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys development and performance of the business, and the position transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks the financial position of the Company and to enable them to and uncertainties that the Company faces.
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the For and on behalf of the Board prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Dr Kevin Carter The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk Chair website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager.
The 22nd March 2018 maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by the 3 6 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7
