CORPORATE SPONSORSHIP As specialists, we partner with specialists who deliver winning results.
This is why we are proud to partner with the Great Britain Skeleton team and professional British cycling team, JLT Condor, triple Olympic gold-medal winning cyclist Ed Clancy OBE, the UKs leading racecourses, Cricket Australia and Spruce Meadows.
GREAT BRITAIN SKELETON JLT has been principal partner to British Skeleton since 2012.
This specialist team celebrated gold at the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympics as well as at the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympic Games, where Lizzy Yarnold became the first British Winter Olympian to win back-to-back Gold medals.
In 2017, the squad won a further 19 medals, featured on the wider podium 44 times and recorded 88 top ten finishes across four international circuits.
JLT CONDOR JLT has supported the UKs longest-standing UCI Continental cycling team, JLT Condor, since 2013.
In 2017, JLT Condor recorded their most successful season to date, winning the Australian Michelton Bay Series in January, the UK national Tour Series, the HSBC Spring Cup Series and the HSBC Grand Prix Series.
This year the team look to build on their success by increasing their global presence by competing in races in Australia, Asia, and Northern Europe.
ED CLANCY OBE Three-time Olympic Gold Medallist, Bronze Medallist and five-time world champion Ed Clancy OBE, is an unrivalled specialist when it comes to cycling track racing.
In 2016 Ed Clancy was not only crowned Olympic track cycling champion for the third time in a row in Rio in August, but was also awarded an OBE for his sporting achievements in the 2016 Queens New Year Honours List.
JLT is looking forward to supporting Ed in his pursuit for gold in the 2020 Olympics.
JLT AND HORSE RACING JLT has been a proud supporter of the UK horse racing industry and partners with renowned racecourses such as Cheltenham, Aintree, Ascot and Newbury, as well as popular jump races The JLT Novices Chase and the JLT Melling Chase.
In 2017, JLT supported the Grand Womens Summit at Aintree Racecourse which celebrates women in horse racing, sport and business.
CRICKET AUSTRALIA In 2017, JLT Australia continued with their tradition of bringing sport to the community by becoming the Official Risk Partner of Cricket Australia, and the naming rights sponsor for domestic, first-class competitions the JLT Sheffield Shield and JLT One-Day Cup.
As the official, long-standing risk partner of Cricket Australia, JLT Australia has been working tirelessly to grow cricket at the elite and grass roots level for many years.
SPRUCE MEADOWS For the third year running, JLT Canada was a proud sponsor of The JLT Cup, held at the Spruce Meadows Masters Tournament in September 2017.
Showcasing the worlds best athletes in the exhilarating sport of show jumping, Spruce Meadows 350 acre facility offers an incredible experience for fans and riders alike.
Like JLT, they are committed to their vision of providing the best customer services to a global clientele and putting their Clients First.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc The St Botolph Building 138 Houndsditch London EC3A 7AW Tel 44 0 20 7528 4444 jlt.
