How we operate Corporate governance codes The Board is collectively responsible to The content of the Manual is reviewed statement of compliance shareholders for the success of the regularly with significant changes reported The Company has dual primary listings in business through: to the relevant Board Committee, reflecting London premium listing and Hong Kong the developing nature of both the Group The delivery of sustainable value to and has therefore adopted a governance and the markets in which it operates.
shareholders: structure based on the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes.
Setting the Groups strategy and overall Material Subsidiary governance risk appetite: The Board confirms that, for the year under Material Subsidiaries review, the Company has complied with Providing leadership within a all the principles and provisions of those framework of effective controls: and Jackson National Life Insurance Company Codes other than the provision of the Monitoring managements M&G Group Limited Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code performance against strategic goals set out below.
Prudential Corporation Asia Limited and ensuring sufficient resources are A narrative description of how the in place to achieve these goals.
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited Company has complied is set out in the Specific matters are reserved for decision following pages and in the Directors by the Board, including: Prudential has appointed independent remuneration report.
nonexecutive directors to the boards of Determination of dividends: The Company does not comply with its four Material Subsidiary entities within provision B.
1.2 d of the Hong Kong Approval of strategic projects: the Group.
Each Material Subsidiary has a Corporate Governance Code which board of directors led by an independent Approval of the threeyear business requires companies, on a comply or explain chair and an audit committee and risk and financial plan: basis, to have a remuneration committee committee, composed entirely of which makes recommendations to a main Approval of key financial reporting independent nonexecutives.
board on the remuneration of non including the Groups full and half yearly Dialogue between the Group Chair, Group executive directors.
This provision is not Report and Accounts: and Risk Committee Chair and Group Audit compatible with supporting provision Responsibility for the system of internal Committee Chair and their counterparts D. 2.3 of the UK Corporate Governance control and risk management.
in the Material Subsidiaries provides an Code which recommends that the board effective information flow.
determines the remuneration of non In making decisions, the Board has regard executive directors.
Prudential has chosen to the balance of interests between all An externally facilitated evaluation of each to adopt a practice in line with the relevant stakeholders, including Material Subsidiary board and their audit recommendations of the UK Corporate shareholders, employees, customers, and risk committees was carried out by Governance Code.
Lintstock Limited, a corporate advisory firm, which concluded that each of those The Executive Directors are the senior Our governance framework boards and committees operated management population for the purposes The Group has established a governance effectively during the year.
of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
framework for the business which is The Nomination & Governance Committee designed to promote appropriate The UK Corporate Governance Code is responsible for oversight of governance behaviours across the Group.
uk arrangements for the Material Subsidiaries.
The governance framework outlines the The activities of the Nomination & The HK Corporate Governance Code key mechanisms through which the Group is available from: www.
hk Governance Committee during 2017 sets strategy, plans its objectives, monitors is set out on pages 101 to 104. performance, considers risk management, How the Board leads the Group The Group is headed by a Board which holds business units to account for Regulatory environment delivering on business plans and arranges the Chairman is responsible for leading.
The Groups business means it is subject The Board is currently made up of 16 governance.
The Group Governance to regulatory requirements and oversight.
Manual the Manual sets out the policies Directors, of which a majority, excluding The Groups primary regulator is the the Chairman, are independent Non and procedures by which the Group Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA.
operates within this framework, taking into executive Directors.
Biographical details We are also regulated by the Financial of each of the Directors can be found on account relevant statutory, regulatory and Conduct Authority in the UK and by other governance matters.
pages 83 to 87 and further details of the regulators worldwide.
roles of the Chairman, Group Chief Business units manage and report Interactions with our regulators shape our Executive, Senior Independent Director, compliance with Groupwide mandatory governance framework and the Chairman Committee Chairs and the Nonexecutive requirements set out in the Manual and Group Chief Executive play a leading Directors can be found on pages 89 through their Governance, Risk role in representing the Group to regulators and 90.
Management and Internal Control and ensuring our dialogue with them Annual Statement of Compliance is constructive.
This includes compliance with our risk management framework, details of which are set out on pages 99 and 100 of this report.
88 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Board roles and governance Chairman Paul Manduca The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board, ensuring its smooth and effective running in discharging its responsibilities to the Groups stakeholders and managing Board business.
Managing Board business Governance Responsible for setting the Board agenda, ensuring the Leading the Boards determination of appropriate corporate right issues are brought to the Boards attention through governance and business values, including ethos, values and collaboration with the Group Chief Executive and the Group culture at Board level and throughout the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Working with the Group General Counsel and Company Facilitating open, honest and constructive debate among Secretary to ensure continued good governance Directors.
When chairing meetings, ensuring there is Acting as key contact for independent chairs of sufficient time to consider all topics, all views are heard and all Material Subsidiaries Board members, and in particular Nonexecutive Directors, have an opportunity to constructively challenge management Meeting with the independent chairs of the Groups Material Subsidiaries on a regular basis and reporting to the Board on Meeting with Nonexecutive Directors throughout the year.
the outcome of those meetings In 2017, the Chairman met with Nonexecutive Directors without Executive Directors being present on three Relationship with the Group Chief Executive occasions Discussing broad strategic plans with the Group Chief Executive prior to submission to the Board Ensuring information brought to the Board is accurate, clear, timely and contains sufficient analysis appropriate to the Ensuring the Board is aware of the necessary resources to scale and nature of the decisions to be made achieve the strategic plan Promoting effective reporting of Board Committee business Providing support and advice to the Group Chief Executive at Board meetings through regular Committee Chair updates Representing the Group externally to shareholders and Membership and composition of the Board other stakeholders Leading the Nomination & Governance Committee in Representing the Board externally at business, political and succession planning and the identification of potential community level.
Presenting the Groups views and positions candidates, having regard to the skills and experience the as determined by the Board Board needs to fulfil its strategy, and making Playing a major role in the Groups engagement with recommendations to the Board regulators Considering the development needs of the Directors so that Balancing the interests of different categories of Directors continually update their skills and knowledge stakeholders, preserving an independent view and ensuring required to fulfil their duties, including the provision of a effective communication comprehensive induction for new Directors Engaging in a programme of meetings with key shareholders Maintaining an effective dialogue with the Nonexecutive throughout the year and reporting to the Board on the issues Directors to encourage engagement and maximise their raised at those meetings contributions www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 89 Independent scrutiny of corporate social responsibility actions As part of the Groups focus on corporate responsibility, the Chairman has instructed the boards of our Material Subsidiaries to consider updates on corporate responsibility activities and spend in their communities on an annual basis.
This initiative has added a layer of independent scrutiny and helped to ensure that those boards are close to the community and charitable activities of their business units.
How we operate continued Group Chief Executive Mike Wells Senior Independent Director Philip Remnant The Group Chief Executive leads the Executive Directors The Senior Independent Director acts as an alternative and senior executives and is responsible for the operational conduit to the Board for shareholder concerns and leads the management of the Group on behalf of the Board on a evaluation of the Chairman: daytoday basis: Keeps in close contact with the Chairman and acts as Responsible for the implementation of Board decisions sounding board for him Establishes processes to ensure operations are compliant Leads the Nonexecutive Directors in conducting the with regulatory requirements Chairmans annual evaluation Sets policies, provides daytoday leadership and makes Holds meetings with Nonexecutive Directors without decisions on matters affecting the operation, performance management being present, typically at least once a year to and strategy of the Group, seeking Board approval for evaluate the performance of the Chairman matters reserved to the Board Offers meetings to major shareholders to provide them Supported by the Group Executive Committee GEC with an additional communication point on request and is which he chairs and which receives reports on generally available to any shareholder to address concerns performance and implementation of strategy for each not resolved through normal channels business unit and discusses major projects and other activities related to the attainment of strategy Chairs the Chief Executives Committee CEC meetings which are held weekly to review matters requiring approval under the Groups framework of delegated authorities Keeps in regular contact with the Chairman and briefs him on key issues Meets with key regulators worldwide Committee Chairs Non-executive Directors Each of the Committee Chairs is responsible for the effective All of the Nonexecutive Directors are deemed to be operation of their respective Committees: independent and together have a wide range of experience used to attain the strategic aims of the Group through: Responsible for the leadership and governance of their Committee Constructive and effective challenge Sets the agenda for Committee meetings Scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives Reports to the Board on the activities of each Committee meeting and the business considered, including, Serving on at least one of the Boards principal Committees where appropriate, seeking Board approval for actions Engaging with Executive Directors and management at in accordance with the Committees terms of reference Board and Committee meetings as well as at site visits, Works with the Group General Counsel and Company training sessions and on an informal basis Secretary to ensure the continued good governance of Taking part in onetoone meetings with the each Committee during the year Group Strategy team and participation in the annual The Chairs of the Audit and Risk Committees act as key Strategy Away Day contact points for the independent chairs of the audit and risk committees of the Material Subsidiaries 90 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults The Board has established four principal Committees whose functions are summarised below.
Board Nomination & Audit Risk Remuneration Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Chair Chair Chair Chair Paul Manduca David Law Howard Davies Anthony Nightingale Responsible for Responsible for the Leads on and oversees Recommends the reviewing, maintaining integrity of the Groups the Groups overall risk Directors Remuneration and enhancing the financial reporting, appetite, risk tolerance Policy for approval balance of skills and including scrutinising and strategy by shareholders experience on the accounting policies Approves the Groups Approves individual Board in support of Monitors the risk management remuneration packages the Groups strategic effectiveness of internal framework and of the Chairman, the objectives control and risk monitors its Executive Directors, Maintains an effective management systems, effectiveness other senior executives framework for senior including compliance Supports the Board and the nonexecutive succession planning arrangements and management directors of Material including at Board level Monitors the in embedding and Subsidiaries Recommends effectiveness and maintaining a Determines the overall appointments to the objectivity of internal supportive culture Remuneration Policy for Board and its principal and external auditors in relation to the the Group Committees and Approves the internal management of risk Reviews the design and appointments of audit plan and Provides advice to development of share nonexecutive chairs recommends the the Remuneration plans and approves and to the boards of the appointment of the Committee on assesses performance Material Subsidiaries external auditor risk management targets where applicable Oversees the considerations to inform governance of Material remuneration decisions Subsidiaries and the Groups overall governance framework See Nomination See Audit Committee See Risk Committee See Remuneration & Governance report on pages 105 report on pages 115 Committee report on Committee report on to 114 to 119 pages 124 to 157 pages 101 to 104 Terms of reference for the principal Committees can be accessed at www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 91 How we operate continued Key areas of focus how the Board spent its time The Board held 10 meetings during 2017.
In addition to those meetings set out in the table below, the Board held a separate threeday strategy event in June.
In addition to meetings, the Board receives monthly update reports from management.
1 Feb Mar May Jun Jul Aug Sep Nov Dec Strategy and implementation Approval and review of strategic priorities Strategic priorities monitoring Approval of three year operating plan 2 Strategic projects Tax strategy reporting Group Chief Executives report Report from Committee Chairs Audit Nomination & Governance Remuneration Risk Financial reporting and dividends Chief Financial Officers performance report Full year Half year Group Solvency II reporting Business unit Chief Executive updates Prudential Corporation Asia North American business unit 3 M&G Prudential Risk, regulatory and compliance Regulatory and compliance updates Chief Risk Officers report Government relations PRA relations Governance and stakeholders Governance updates Board evaluation and actions tracking Succession planning Corporate responsibility reporting and ESG Diversity and inclusion Talent review Nonexecutive Directors fees Feedback on investor meetings Notes 1 The Board held two meetings in March 2017.
2 Strategic projects during the year included the merger of our business units M&G and Prudential UK & Europe, and the sale of our brokerdealer network in the USA.
3 Prior to their merger in August 2017, M&G and Prudential UK & Europe reported to the Board separately.
92 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Board and Committee meeting attendance throughout 2017 Individual Directors attendance at meetings throughout the year is set out in the table below.
Nomination Audit & Governance Remuneration Risk Joint Audit and General Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Risk Committee Meeting Number of meetings held 10 9 4 6 6 1 1 Chairman Paul Manduca 10 4 1 Executive Directors Mike Wells 10 1 1 Mark FitzPatrick 5 5 John Foley 10 1 Nic Nicandrou 10 1 Anne Richards 10 1 Barry Stowe 10 1 Executive Directors who stepped down during the year 2 Tony Wilkey 4 5 1 3 Penny James 8 8 1 Non-executive Directors Philip Remnant 10 9 4 6 1 1 Howard Davies 10 9 4 6 1 1 David Law 10 9 2 2 3 3 1 1 Kai Nargolwala 10 6 6 1 1 Anthony Nightingale 10 4 6 1 Alice Schroeder 10 9 1 1 Lord Turner 10 5 5 6 1 1 4 Tom Watjen 5 5 2 2 Non-executive Director who stepped down during the year 5 Ann Godbehere 4 4 4 4 2 2 3 3 1 1 Notes 1 Mark FitzPatrick joined the Board with effect from 17 July 2017.
2 Tony Wilkey stepped down from the Board with effect from 17 July 2017.
3 Penny James stepped down from the Board with effect from 30 September 2017.
4 Tom Watjen joined the Board with effect from 11 July 2017.
5 Ann Godbehere retired from the Board with effect from 18 May 2017.
Full details of changes to the Board during the year can be found on page 83.
Board and Committee papers are usually provided one week in advance of a meeting.
Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, his or her views are canvassed in advance by the Chairman of that meeting where possible.
Board effectiveness and to the Audit and Risk Committees to reflect strategic priorities, with an Actions during 2017 as regular agenda items: increased focus on products and During the year, the action points that had customers.
Subsidiary independent nonexecutive been identified in the 2016 evaluation were directors and chairs, along with all Agendas continued to be reviewed by addressed and the Board received an Prudential Nonexecutive Directors, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive update on progress against those actions were invited to a meeting at which the and the Group General Counsel and in September 2017 and February 2018.
Executive team gave presentations on Company Secretary, as well as other Subsidiary governance the 2016 each business unit with a question and senior executives where appropriate: review identified that ensuring good answer session.
The sessions also The Board specifically debated at its subsidiary governance was maintained provided the opportunity for the July 2017 meeting, as part of a wider was a continuing priority from 2015.
Prudential Board and subsidiary boards discussion on good governance, to spend time together in an informal Group Secretariat continued to monitor whether sufficient time was allowed for setting: and and support the regular interactions discussion and debate and concluded between the Chairman, Audit Group Secretariat continued its positively: and Committee Chair and Risk Committee established quarterly round table The aspiration to create an information Chair with their Material Subsidiary sessions with subsidiary counterparts pack on products and markets for Board counterparts: to share governance best practices.
background information was developed Reports of all material issues at Board agenda the 2016 review noted into an app, which was trialled to the subsidiary level were given to the Board that time spent at meetings should flex GEC in the first quarter of 2018. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 93 How we operate continued Senior employee focus the 2016 2017 review and actions for 2018 Theme Summary of actions review noted the focus on rebuilding The Board undertook an external strength in senior management teams evaluation of its performance and that of Creating Spend additional time on around the Group, following a number its Committees in 2017.
The review was the right site visits.
Continue to hold of successful internal promotions.
facilitated by Boardroom Review Limited, environment Nonexecutive Director only a consultancy which undertakes no other for critical sessions on an asrequired The Board met all members of the business for the Company.
The external decision basis Prudential Corporation Asia executive nature of the review met the provision of making committee as well as a number of senior the UK Corporate Governance Code which Prudential Corporation Asia executives Highlighting Provide further reports to the requires external evaluations on no less at its Jakarta sessions in April 2017.
All culture on Board on culture in 2018 and than threeyearly intervals.
members of the Prudential Indonesia the agenda mature the Groups strategic executive committee also presented The evaluation included interviews with objective to develop a to the Board on this occasion: all Board members and the Group General framework for a measurable, Counsel and Company Secretary, and definable culture The Board held a twoday session in attendance and observation by Dr Tracy Craigforth in September 2017 at which Long at a number of Board and Committee Increasing Continue to focus on gender the M&G Prudential executive meetings.
Supporting materials to enhance the Boards and other diversity in all committee and senior executives the assessment teams understanding of resilience new Board appointments.
gave business and strategy updates, how the Board and its Committees operate Introduce a skills map to including on the merger of the M&G were provided.
monitor experience and and Prudential UK & Europe expertise more formally businesses: The findings were presented to the Board in December 2017 and a collective Board The Board received reports from all Director evaluation discussion to exchange ideas and agree business units at its meetings on key The performance during 2017 of the priorities arising from the report took place.
joiners and leavers: and Nonexecutive Directors and the Group The report identified a number of strengths Chief Executive was evaluated by the A number of senior executives below of the Board, including strong leadership Chairman in individual meetings.
Philip GEC level presented to each of the from the Chairman and Group Chief Remnant, the Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee and Risk Committee Executive: a collegiate and constructive led the Nonexecutive Directors in a on a regular basis during the year.
environment: effective use of time: high performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Remuneration the 2016 review noted quality information flow: robust risk and the growing complexity of remuneration control oversight: appropriate tone Executive Directors are subject to regular review and the Group Chief Executive across all UKlisted companies and, over through the Remuneration Committee: the course of 2017, the Board noted the attention to leadership development and individually appraised the performance of each of the Executive Directors as part increased governance focus in this area.
of the annual Groupwide performance A training session on remuneration was Through the evaluation and subsequent evaluation of all staff.
established for those Nonexecutive discussion at the Board meeting in The outcome of these evaluations is Directors who do not serve on the February 2018, the Board identified areas reported to the Nomination & Governance Remuneration Committee, to discuss of particular focus and related actions: Committee in February each year in order the Directors Remuneration Policy and to inform the Committees recommendation broader market practice information.
that each Board member be put forward This took place in May 2017 and further for reelection by shareholders.
sessions will be delivered on an asrequired basis: and Executive Director performance is also A specific and detailed induction reviewed by the Remuneration Committee as part of its deliberations on bonus was arranged for Mr Watjen on his appointment, given his role as a payments.
member of the Remuneration Committee.
94 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Building Directors knowledge Induction new Directors On appointment, each new Director is provided with a comprehensive induction, tailored to reflect the experience of the individual and his or her position as a Nonexecutive or Executive Director.
Our two new Directors, Mr Watjen and Mr FitzPatrick each received a full induction to the business.
A summary of the general topics covered, as well as the role specific topics on which they each received comprehensive briefings, are set out in the table below.
General induction programme Role-specific induction programme relevant to all new Directors for new Directors Understanding Understanding our governance our business Mark FitzPatrick Tom Watjen Meetings with the Chairman Tailored briefings with Tailored meetings with Human Resourcesspecific and Group Chief Executive each business unit to members of the Group induction provided by separately gain a comprehensive Finance function the Director of Human understanding of each Resources, including an Explanation of the Groups Company financial reporting of their business models, overview of Group Reward, strategy and business plan overview on key Group product suites, pricing current UK remuneration hot issues including US GAAP Explanation of Prudentials arrangements and topics, and the role of the differences, IFRS Insurance corporate structure, governance structures Remuneration Committee Performance Management, Board and Executive and business unit Introductory meetings with IFRS contracts and tax Committee structure remuneration committees all Group functions Walkthrough of financial Briefings on Group Meeting with the Chair of the Comprehensive briefings on reporting disclosures governance framework and Remuneration Committee to the regulatory environment key policies Additional tailored support discuss the annual cycle of in which the Group operates in his first role as Chief Committee work, its current Training as needed on the Briefings on top risks and Financial Officer of a global focus and focus for 2018 rules and governance internal controls financial services operation and beyond requirements of the London and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges and on fulfilling the statutory duties of a Director Induction role changes Mr Law had been a member of the Audit Lord Turner received a detailed briefing Since Mr Nicandrou was appointed Chief Committee for almost two years at the from the Director of Group Finance on Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia time of his appointment as Chair, which appointment to the Audit Committee.
he has continued to deepen his knowledge provided him with detailed knowledge of A full description of all Board and role of the Asia business with a tour of its operations and he worked closely with changes during 2017 are set out on operations across each of the 14 markets the outgoing Chair to ensure a smooth page 83. in which Prudential Corporation Asia transition.
In addition Mr Law met with the operates.
As part of his visits, Mr Chief Financial Officer and other members Nicandrou spent time with senior of Group Finance, the Groupwide Internal management, staff and agents of both Audit Director, the Group Regulatory and Prudential Corporation Asias Life and Government Relations Director and the Eastspring operations.
He held a regional Director of Group Compliance in conference to provide insights on the preparation for his role as Chair.
Mr Law strategic direction of the business and to attended one of each of the Material discuss opportunities to broaden Subsidiary audit committee meetings distribution, simplify products and to gain a better understanding of their services, and the role of digital technology operations.
He also met with the Group in upgrading the way the business engages Chief Risk Officer and other members and services its customers.
He has also of Group Risk to prepare him for his role engaged extensively with regulators, as a member of the Risk Committee.
government officials, existing and prospective partners and hosted a regional investor conference.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 95 How we operate continued Continuing development In December 2017, the Group ran committees generally.
In 2017, this of knowledge and skills a focused cyber training session included updates on MiFID II, audit During 2017, the Board and its Committees for members of the Risk and Audit matters for consideration, and financial received a number of technical and Committees, which was open to reporting disclosures as well as forward business updates as part of their scheduled all Directors: looking consideration for IFRS 17: and meetings, providing information on The Board reviews each business unit at The Remuneration Committee receives external developments relevant to the least once a year and conducts periodic updates on regulatory and governance Group and on particular products or site visits as part of this.
In 2017, the developments affecting the Groups operations.
Below is an overview of how Board met in Jakarta, Indonesia and remuneration arrangements.
In 2017, Directors are kept up to date: Craigforth, Scotland.
Details of the these included the PRAs guidance on The Board holds an annual strategy activities undertaken on these visits Solvency II remuneration requirements, session, which allows for detailed are set out above: the Investment Association Principles updates on each of the business units of Remuneration, BEIS Corporate The Board and the Risk Committee and deep dives on strategic direction Governance reform concerning receive regular updates on market and objectives for the Group: remuneration and gender pay developments and key risks, including gap reporting.
The Board receives updates on brand updates on Solvency II and cyber risk.
and corporate responsibility activities, The Risk Committee reviews top risks Further information on the activities of the usually once a year: on an annual basis and deep dives into Board and its Committees can be found in specific topics in response to the the tables explaining how the Board and its The Board receives updates at each of identification of key risks.
This review Committees spent their time on pages 92, its full Board meetings on corporate covers the financial, operational and 102, 107, 117 and 133. governance, political and regulatory strategic risks, whilst also identifying developments, and the dynamics of All Directors have the opportunity to and addressing business environment equity and currency markets.
In 2017, discuss their individual development needs and insurance risks within the Group.
this included updates on the political as part of the annual Board effectiveness The identification of such risks inform environment, such as Brexit and tax review and Directors are asked to provide the risk reporting provided to the reform in the USA.
The Board also a record of training received externally Committee and the Board: considered MiFID II, the General Data on an annual basis.
All Directors have the Protection Regulation, the Modern The Audit Committee receives updates right to obtain professional advice at Slavery Act, and the review of the FRCs on developments affecting financial Prudentials expense.
UK Corporate Governance Code: reporting and the role of audit 96 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk Board site visits Jakarta, Indonesia All Board members made a site visit to the Groups operations in Jakarta, Indonesia in March 2017.
The visit included presentations from the Prudential Corporation Asia executive team on regional financial performance and an overview of the asset management and life businesses across Asia.
This was followed by detailed presentations by the local Indonesian executive team focusing on agency, Sharia strategy, products, operations, compliance and risk management, brand and corporate social responsibility.
The Board also attended an agency Greater Together recognition event at the Kasablanca Hall with more than 4,000 agents and visited an agency training centre and two agency offices in Menara 88 PruVictory and PruFavor which gave an opportunity to see the Groups distribution in action.
Craigforth, Scotland All Board and GEC members visited the Groups operations in Craigforth, Scotland in September 2017.
The visit included presentations from the M&G Prudential executive team, which gave opportunity to demonstrate to the Board the activity that had taken place in merging the M&G and Prudential life businesses.
In addition, focus sessions were held to provide an indepth understanding of Prudential Savings & Retirement Solutions and M&G.
These included sessions on the annuities business, the customer vision and strategy, distribution, investment management, transformation and culture.
As well as formal presentations, the Board visited different parts of the Craigforth site for demonstrations from employees on ypical p ocessing s stems and technolo t r y gy innovation.
01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Diversity Shareholder engagement Shareholder feedback and key issues Given the global reach of the Groups As a major institutional investor, the Board from these meetings is communicated to operations, and our business strategy and recognises the importance of maintaining the Board.
Details of when feedback was longterm focus, the Board makes every an appropriate level of twoway discussed by the Board in 2017 can be effort to ensure it is able to recruit Directors communication with shareholders.
found on page 92. from different backgrounds, with diverse A full programme of engagement with The Annual General Meeting is an experience, perspective and skills.
This shareholders, potential investors and opportunity for further shareholder diversity not only contributes towards analysts, in the UK and overseas, is engagement, for the Chairman to explain Board effectiveness but is essential for conducted each year by the Group Chief the Companys progress and, along with successfully delivering the strategy of an Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, other members of the Board, to answer international Group.
led by the Investor Relations team.
All Directors then in office This is reflected in our Group Diversity and A conference for investors and analysts is attended the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Inclusion Policy which aims to provide held on a regular basis, including indepth Details of the 2018 Annual General equal opportunities to all who apply for and business presentations and opportunities Meeting are available on who perform work for our organisation for attendees to meet with members of www.
co. uk investors including our Directors irrespective of the Board and senior executives and an sex, race, age, ethnic origin, educational, opportunity for the executive team to social and cultural background, marital communicate progress and strategy status, pregnancy and maternity, civil outside of the financial reporting cycle.
partnership status, any gender The most recent event was held in reassignment, religion or belief, sexual November 2017 and feedback was orientation, disability, or parttime provided to the Board in December 2017. fixedterm work, and to ensure appropriate The Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial diversity of experience, skill sets and Officer and Investor Relations team also professional backgrounds.
attend major financial services conferences The Board is committed to recruiting the to present to and meet with the Companys best available talent and appointing the shareholders.
most appropriate candidate for each role In 2017, as part of the investor relations while at the same time aiming for an programme, over 320 meetings were held appropriate diversity on the Board.
The with approximately 700 individual Nomination & Governance Committee institutional investors in London, takes into account the Group Diversity continental Europe, the USA and Asia.
and Inclusion Policy when considering succession planning.
Prudential has a The Company holds an ongoing programme preference for using suppliers recognised of regular contact with major shareholders, for their commitment to diversity.
The conducted by the Chairman, to discuss Board considers that its diversity of their views on the Companys governance.
experience, skill set and professional The Senior Independent Director offers background has been increased as a result meetings to major shareholders as needed.
of Board level succession in 2017.
Engagement with institutional investors on the Directors remuneration policy and The Board continues to commit to implementation is led by the Remuneration developing a robust and diverse talent Committee Chair.
Other Nonexecutive pipeline and to increasing representation of Directors are available to meet with major women in senior positions in the Group and shareholders on request.
As part of this commitment the Board may endorse relevant measurable objectives for increasing diversity.
For example, in 2016 the Board decided to sign the HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter with an aim to achieve at least 30 per cent of women in senior management by the end of 2021 and in 2017, all Executive Directors volunteered to mentor members from our senior management team of various ages, gender, educational and professional backgrounds.
The Group also engaged in a number of targeted activities in support of our Diversity and Inclusion Policy, including awareness training of unconscious bias.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 97
