Our businesses and their performance Asia There are compelling structural trends that underpin the long term opportunities for savings and protection across the region, and Prudential is positioned for further growth in these markets.
In Asia the insurance and savings industries to address their individual needs.
Building, are still in their infancy with average training and managing teams of financial 2017 insurance penetration rates at just advisers that can do this takes considerable 6 2.4 per cent, well below those seen in the time and expertise.
Within this context, performance UK.
65 per cent of personal wealth in Asia Prudential is differentiated by its long highlights is held in cash or deposits relative to history in Asia, the breadth and depth of 14 per cent in the US.
There are significant its operations, and its discipline and quality growth opportunities that arise from simply of execution.
Continued performance in key addressing these existing concerns.
metrics: new business profit up Prudential Corporation Asia has all the key However, there are key structural trends 1 12 per cent, IFRS operating profit attributes for continuing success, starting that will further increase this strong 1 up 15 per cent and underlying free with a footprint of life insurance and asset demand for savings and protection for 1 surplus generation up 19 per cent management business spanning 14 decades ahead.
countries and giving us access to 3.3 billion 2017 financial objectives achieved The first is the growing working population people.
We also have unrivalled expertise Eastspring total funds under which is predicted to increase at over in the region, having been in Malaysia since management of 138.9 billion up 1 million people per month.
This means 1924, and entering markets early such as 2 18 per cent that between 2015 and 2030 some India, China, Vietnam and most recently 178 million people will reach working age, Cambodia and Laos.
We also pioneered Operating in 77 cities in China roughly the equivalent to the combined industry developments in the region, such 1 with APE sales up 43 per cent populations of the UK, France and Italy.
as unitlinked products and bancassurance.
Eastspring named Best Asset Our sheer scale is a key competitive The second trend relates to the significant Management House by Asia Asset advantage with over 600,000 agents, economic growth potential of the region Management for 2018 Awards access to more than 10,000 bank branches, with, GDP in Asia predicted to increase 15 million life customers, 24 million life significantly.
The implications on wealth policies currently in force and 139 billion creation are profound, with private of assets under management.
financial wealth increasing by some US$4 trillion per annum from 2016 to From this position of strength, we are now reach US$78 trillion by 2021. leveraging our expertise further to deliver greater value from our agency and bank The third trend covers the expanding channels, broaden our product offering mortality and morbidity protection gaps: and drive efficiencies in our operational as families wealth increases so does the platforms.
We are also being increasingly amount of money they need to sustain their innovative in the ways we add value for lifestyles in the event of a lifechanging our customers, often harnessing digital event such as the death of a breadwinner technology.
or the diagnosis of a critical illness.
Research concluded that in Prudentials life Distribution 8 markets the mortality gap is US$45 trillion Prudential Corporation Asia has one of and out of pocket healthcare expenditure the strongest distribution platforms in the is roughly four times the rates seen in the region, with a well diversified mix of tied US and UK.
agents and bank partners that enables us to reach a broad range of customers.
Our While these opportunities are attractive, experience is that customers fundamental there are a number of challenges associated preference for facetoface advice and with executing them.
The industry is highly service from a trusted financial adviser is regulated as governments are rightly very undiminished, and so tied agency and concerned about ensuring individuals do inbranch bank sales staff will remain our not take undue risks with their savings and primary distribution channels.
The products are intangible, with the benefits potentially not However, we are making significant crystallising for many years: customers investments in upgrading our capabilities need to have a high level of confidence in to ensure we not only meet but exceed our the company that they are entrusting their customers expectations, including digital financial wellbeing to.
The products can innovations and efficiencies, when they be complex and unfamiliar, so customers interact with our distributors.
For example, typically need advice and guidance on how in Singapore our agents are now equipped 18 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Adding more to life: Nasrun, Prudential Indonesia 20 As a PRUcustomer Friend, one of my first direct interactions with a Prudential customer was meeting a gentleman who was thinking of surrendering his policy.
I encouraged him to maintain an active policy by citing the benefits, and thankfully he did just that.
Not long after our meeting, I received the sad news that he had passed away.
His daughter, who was the beneficiary of his life insurance policy, visited and thanked me for persuading her father not to surrender the policy.
She said, thanks to you, we were able to cover the hospital bills and other expenses after my father passed away.
Its moments like these that Im grateful for my role at Prudential, which gives me the opportunity to make a difference in peoples lives.
Understanding our markets 3,4 Working age population 1 million a month 2.5bn 2.5bn 2030 2030 2.3bn 2015 with our fourth generation of an electronic partners.
For example, we have had point of sales ePos portal that uses the an enduring regional relationship with Health gap: latest developments in biometric Standard Chartered Bank since 1998 5 out-of-pocket healthcare spend authentication and produces a detailed and the ongoing effectiveness of this quote within three minutes.
In China our relationship is evidenced by a 12 per cent mobile policy application process has growth in APE last year.
We have also 42% reduced customer onboarding time from had great success in securing and then Asia five days to 30 minutes, and includes auto activating newer relationships, for example underwriting and verification so policies Thanachart Bank in Thailand grew APE by can be issued within seconds.
These 17 per cent last year following collaboration 12% initiatives not only give our customers a on a new regular premium product.
US better experience, but also help our agents In addition we are actively increasing our become more productive: in China the 9% engagement with other banks.
We have number of active agents increased UK recently announced new agreements with 24 per cent last year and their average case Robinsons Bank in the Philippines, Siam sizes increased 21 per cent.
6 Commercial Bank in Thailand for the Insurance penetration Our agency management capabilities in provision of unit linked products to their terms of recruiting and training are well high worth customers and Shinhan Bank 7.5% proven, but we are continuing to upgrade in Indonesia and Vietnam.
For example in Indonesia, where we Products recruited an average of over 4,500 agents Prudential has a full suite of products that per month during 2017, our PRUforce are tailored to meet individual market agency workbench has enabled us to 2.4% requirements and customer needs.
Our reduce significantly onboarding times.
Asia overarching priority is to ensure firstly that Million Dollar Round Table membership is customers have appropriate levels of an industryrecognised indicator of agency protection and then support them with quality, and in Hong Kong we lead the their longterm savings objectives.
market with over 4,000 qualifiers up by 9 Consequently a relatively high proportion 53 per cent.
We are also adapting 7 Private financial wealth of our average premiums are directed to technology to improve the service we US$4 trillion a year protection products: equal to 27 per cent of provide to our agents, such as askPRU US$78tr total APE in 2017, and regular premiums in Singapore, the industrys first chatbot 2021 comprised 94 per cent of the total APE.
Since its launch, This mix is also beneficial to shareholders, calls to the service centre have reduced US$53tr as regular premiums provide a reliable by 30 per cent.
2016 stream of compounding revenues and We believe bancassurance is an effective protection business has higher profit way to increase insurance penetration and margins as shareholders are providing Prudential has an excellent track record in capital to support risks.
growing high quality business through this channel with a number of different www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 19 Our businesses and their performance continued A leading pan-Asia franchise The combination of Prudential Corporation Asias broad capability set, wide business footprint, and the significant opportunity across the market underpins our business in Asia.
Accelerate Asia Compounding revenues and profits Prudential Corporation Asia is a business with compounding revenues underpinned by high quality recurring income that is uncorrelated to investment markets.
The current scale and profitability has been achieved by increasing our customer base and penetration across the continent.
Growth is driven by our ability to meet customer needs through the breadth of markets we operate in, the scale and innovation of our operations, the capabilities of Eastspring Investments, our panAsia asset manager, and our diverse and talented workforce.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Diversification Hong Kong Philippines 11 1 Life insurance Life insurance 10 12 12 Market ranking 2nd Market ranking 3rd Population 7m Population 102m 9 13 13 Penetration 16.2% Penetration 1.2% 8 1,975m Eastspring 7 18 2 14 Singapore Funds under management 3.4bn 6 15% Life insurance 15 12 Market ranking 2nd India Population 6m 5 3 13 Life insurance Penetration 5.5% 12 Market ranking 1st 4 Population 1.3bn Eastspring 13 14 Penetration 2.7% Funds under management 74.8bn IFRS operating profit by region Full year 2017 % Eastspring 14 Taiwan Funds under management 17.2bn 1 Indonesia 23% 2% 2 Singapore 14% 10% Life insurance 12 3 Hong Kong 17% 38% Market ranking 12th Indonesia 4 Malaysia 9% 15% Population 24m 13 Life insurance 5 Vietnam 7% 15% Penetration 16.6% 12 Market ranking 1st 6 Thailand 5% 7% Population 261m Eastspring 7 China 5% 38% 13 14 Penetration 1.6% Funds under management 5.4bn 8 Philippines 2% 11% 9 Taiwan 7% 10% Eastspring 10 Eastspring 9% 18% 14 Thailand Funds under management 4.0bn 11 Others 2% 14% Life insurance Growth rate vs 2016 12 Market ranking 10th Japan constant exchange rates Population 68m Eastspring 13 Penetration 3.7% 14 Funds under management 7.2bn Vietnam Korea Life insurance Eastspring 12 Market ranking 2nd 14 Funds under management 8.7bn Population 94m 13 Penetration 1.0% 19 Cambodia Laos Eastspring 14 Life insurance Life insurance Funds under management 2.0bn 12 12 Market ranking 3rd Market ranking 1st Population 16m Population 7m 13 13 Penetration 0.0% Penetration 0.1% 15 17 China Malaysia Life insurance Life insurance 12 12 Market ranking 4th Market ranking 1st Population 1.4bn Population 31m 13 13 Penetration 2.3% Penetration 3.1% Eastspring Eastspring 14 14 Funds under management 7.4bn Funds under management 6.3bn www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 21 Our businesses and their performance continued While we are already one of the leaders in advice supported by an app and based on Investing for growth the protection space, continued innovation an individuals genetic profile, is very Given the compelling opportunities we see is essential for our ongoing success.
In popular and so this has already been rolled in the region we will continue investing for Hong Kong we recently launched a very out to Vietnam, Malaysia and Singapore.
We will continue to enhance our popular upgrade to our critical illness In Malaysia we have partnered with core operations, expanding our traditional product, PRUhealth critical illness BP Global for their Doctor2U app.
This distribution reach with more, higher quality multicare, which provides lifetime gives our customers preferential rates on agents: we will add new bank distribution multiclaim, lumpsum cover for 113 services that include online video medical partners and explore adding some non disease conditions, including three claims consultations and the option to have a traditional ones too.
We will accelerate the for cancer up to a total of 300 per cent of callout 24 7.
In Indonesia we have the work in digitising and automating our the sum assured.
PRUmedical network covering 45 hospitals processes and ensure we have enhanced in 24 cities.
Our customers receive priority abilities to connect with the broader We are also successfully evolving our admission and discharge to reduce waiting cloudbased ecosystem.
product ranges within markets to cater for times, and are also guaranteed rooms.
a more differentiated range of customer We are already one of the leaders in the needs.
For example, in Indonesia we have More broadly, we are also engaging with health space, but we will investigate introduced Hebat, a lower premium customers in areas that concern them.
opportunities to participate more broadly investment linked product, at one end of Our Relationship Index gives insights on in this area with more comprehensive the spectrum for emerging customers and and flexible coverages and a wider range one of the most important areas of an as charged medical product at the customers lives, their relationships with of value added services.
We will position other end for higher net worth customers.
Eastspring to play a greater role in their loved ones.
Customers are also In Indonesia and Malaysia we have been increasingly concerned that companies managing Asias rising wealth and we will successfully developing Takaful products also expand our presence in China.
they are associated with are good.
Our to provide for the specific needs of Muslim Prudence Foundation has well recognised Underpinning our ability to build on our customers.
community initiatives around childrens existing strengths and build out our education, including the ChaChing Work is also underway to ensure we have capabilities is our priority to continue financial literacy programme and our active dialogues with our customers so investing in our people.
It is vital that we disaster preparedness initiatives including their products keep up with their changing further enhance our diverse and highly the Safe Steps campaigns on natural needs.
Technology is also helping here: talented workforce.
disasters, road safety and first aid.
during 2017 we piloted next best offer Our YouTube channels that hold videos with our agents in Hong Kong.
This is related to these and other initiatives have an AIdriven app that automatically had over 100 million views.
recommends additional coverage to existing customers.
Eastspring Investments Eastspring has a number of advantages Customers and is well placed for the anticipated Excellent customer service is a prerequisite growth in Asias retail mutual fund market.
for sustained success in the industry and It has one of the largest footprints in Asia, we are continuously driving improvements.
being operational in 10 major markets.
For example, in China we have introduced It has a well diversified customer base WeChat eclaims that have reduced the comprising Prudentials internal life funds, processing time for a seven day and a number of institutional clients, hospitalisation claim from around 18 days including sovereign wealth funds and to two days.
The usage rate of eclaims retail customers.
Assets managed are is 99 per cent.
In Hong Kong we have also well diversified between fixed Nic Nicandrou simplified the verification processes for income and equities and also include Chief Executive Mainland China customers using iPads infrastructure funds.
Prudential Corporation Asia and GPS so they no longer need to visit our customer service centre.
In Indonesia Recent developments include a we have developed PRUcheers, an broadening and strengthening of our analyticsdriven business engine that in house investment teams with some performs a preassessment of claims so key hires, winning the Best Asset 21 that low risk ones can now be turned Management House award, new around in minutes, and the turnaround strategic partnerships BlackRock, time for medical claims has been reduced Sustainable Growth Advisers and Korea by 15 per cent.
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, significant progress with our However, in addition to improved systems and operating model upgrades processes, customers are increasingly and enhancing our institutional coverage looking for value added services that go by adding consultants in Asia and the US.
beyond the basic product proposition and We have also recently received approval so provide opportunities for us to increase of our business licence as an investment our connections with them.
In Hong Kong management whollyforeign owned we found that myDNA, a service that enterprise in China.
provides customised diet and exercise 22 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Creating value and benefiting Driving our business our stakeholders In Asia, we focus our efforts on helping Customers 15 million life customers new and existing customers build better futures for themselves and their families, by helping to fill the savings and protection gap that exists in many countries in the region.
We listen to our customers to help us Products 94% of APE sales understand their changing needs and tailor in regular premium our design of product solutions and services.
For example: PRUhealth cancer Brand awareness of 85% multicare was launched to address the average 94% in top four markets impact of multiple cancer diagnoses in Hong Kong and the region.
We are wellpositioned in terms of the Distribution 600,000 agents scale and diversity of our distribution to reach and serve our customers needs.
Access to over 10,000 At the core of our distribution model is bank branches facetoface customer interaction that delivers highquality, needsbased advice.
Building on our strong track record, we are Investment Now in 77 cities in China building for future growth by investing in new opportunities and capabilities.
for growth Indonesia distribution expansion circa 400 offices Eastspring Investments total funds under management 139 billion Notes 1 Growth rate on a constant exchange rate basis.
Source: The Premier 13 Market penetration: Swiss Re Sigma based on 2 Growth rate on an actual exchange rate basis.
insurance premiums as a percentage of GDP in 2016 3 United Nations, Department of Economic and Social 10 Weighted premium income comprises gross earned estimated.
World Population premiums at 100 per cent of renewal premiums, 14 FUM reported based on the country where the funds Prospects: The 2015 Revision, DVD Edition 15.
100 per cent of first year premiums and 10 per cent of are managed.
4 Working age population: 15 to 64 years.
5 World Health Organisation Global Health Observatory 11 Comparatives have been stated on an constant exchange 16 Ranking among private players.
Outofpocket as a percentage rate basis.
Historic have been restated to exclude sales 17 Includes Takaful sales at 100 per cent.
Asia calculated as average from Korea Life, classified as held for sale.
2014 excludes 18 Singapore includes onshore only, excluding Eldershield outofpocket.
intragroup reinsurance contracts between the UK and and DPS.
Insurance penetration Asia withprofits businesses.
calculated as premiums as percentage of GDP.
Asia 12 Based on FY17 or the latest information available.
20 PRUcustomer Friends are employed by Prudential penetration calculated on a weighted population basis.
Source include formal eg Competitors results release, Indonesia to provide customer service and support, 7 Source: BCG Global Wealth 2017: local regulators and insurance association and informal and enhance customer relationships.
industry exchange market share data.
Ranking based on 21 2018 Asia Asset Management Best of the Best Regional 8 Source: Swiss Re Mortality Protection Gap Report new business APE sales on weighted full year premium Awards Best Asset Management House.
Asia Pacific 2015. depending on availability of data.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 23 Our businesses and their performance United States Providing an ageing American population with financial strategies for stable retirements.
The US is the worlds largest retirement Fixed index annuity savings market with approximately A Jackson fixed index annuity is a 2017 40 million Americans reaching retirement guaranteed product with limited market age over the next decade alone.
This exposure but no actual equity performance transition will trigger the need for an ownership.
It is designed to build wealth highlights unprecedented shift of trillions of dollars through a combination of a base from savings accumulation to retirement crediting rate that is generally lower income generation.
than a traditional fixed annuity crediting Cash remittance of 475 million rate, but with the potential for additional However, these Americans face challenges Total IFRS operating profit of upside based upon the performance of in planning for life after work.
For many 1 2.2 billion up 3 per cent the linked index.
members of this generation, a financially Variable annuity total net inflows secure retirement is at risk, due to Fixed annuity of 4.7 billion insufficient accumulation of savings during A Jackson fixed annuity is a guaranteed their working years and the current product designed to build wealth Strong separate account asset combination of low yields and market without market exposure, through a 1 growth up 19 per cent at volatility.
Employerbased pensions are crediting rate that is likely to be superior US$176.6 billion 130.5 billion disappearing and government plans are to interest rates offered from banks or Awarded Contact Center World underfunded.
Social security was never money market funds.
Class FCR Certification and intended to be a primary retirement These products also offer tax deferral, Highest Customer Service for solution and today its longterm funding which allows interest and earnings to grow the Financial Industry awards by status is in question.
Additionally, the life taxfree until withdrawals are made.
The Service Quality Measurement expectancy of an average retiree has Group, Inc. the 11th consecutive significantly increased, lengthening the Jackson has a proven track record in this year of recognition for customer number of years for which retirement market with its marketleading flagship 6 service performance in both funding is needed.
Jacksons success categories has been built on its quicktomarket To overcome these challenges, Americans product innovation, as demonstrated by need and demand retirement strategies the development and launch of Elite Access that offer them the opportunity to grow in 2012, our investmentonly variable and protect the value of their existing annuity.
Further demonstrating Jacksons assets, as well as the ability to provide flexibility and manufacturing capabilities, guaranteed income that will last Jackson has launched Perspective throughout their extended lifetimes.
Advisory II and Elite Access Advisory Jackson continues to respond to this to serve advisers and distributors with demand with product innovation and a preference for advisory products.
distribution strategies that meet the needs In November, Jackson launched Private of a growing retirement population, while Wealth Shield PWS, a variable annuity generating shareholder value.
developed specifically for trusts and private banks.
To support this new Customers and products product, Jackson also announced the Through its distribution partners, Jackson formation of its Private Wealth & Trust provides products, including variable, group, a specialised team focused on fixed and fixed index annuities, which complex planning, investment offer Americans the retirement strategies management and tax mitigation strategies they need.
These products offer a range for highnetworth and ultrahigh of features: networth clients.
Variable annuity A Jackson variable annuity, with Distribution investment freedom, represents an Jackson distributes products in all 50 states attractive option for retirees, providing of the US and in the District of Columbia.
both access to equity market Operations in the state of New York are appreciation and guaranteed lifetime conducted through a New York subsidiary.
income as an add on benefit.
Jackson markets its retail products primarily through advice based distribution channels, including independent agents, independent brokerdealer firms, regional 24 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Understanding our markets Retirement wave 2 Baby boomer population by age 4.5m Age 55 4.0m in 2016 Age 60 3.5m brokerdealers, wirehouses, and banks.
Regulatory landscape in 2016 Age 65 For variable annuity sales, Jackson is the The industry has continued to manage in 2016 leader in the independent brokerdealer, through an everchanging regulatory 9 bank and wirehouse channels and second landscape.
In April 2016, the US 9 in regional firms.
Department of Labor DoL released a final version of its Fiduciary Duty Rule Rules, Jacksons distribution strength also sets which seeks to eliminate conflicts of us apart from our competitors.
Our interest in investment advice, in order 7 wholesaling force is the largest in the Under-saved to protect and encourage savings and 3 variable annuity industry and is Median net worth investment for working Americans.
The instrumental in supporting the independent US$000 DoL implemented a partial applicability advisers who help the growing pool of date of 9 June 2017 where fiduciary 187.3 American retirees develop effective advisers have an obligation to give advice 55-64 retirement strategies.
Our wholesalers that adheres to impartial conduct provide extensive training to thousands of standards.
These impartial conduct advisers about the range of our products 124.2 standards require advisers to adhere to and the investment strategies that are 45-54 a best interest standard when making available to support their clients.
Based on investment recommendations, charge no the latest available data, Jackson is the most more than reasonable compensation for productive variable annuity wholesale their services, and refrain from making 7 distribution force in the US.
In late November, In August 2017, National Planning Holdings the DoL announced an 18month extension NPH, an affiliate of Jackson, announced on the full applicability date from 1 January Increased longevity 4 Life expectancy at 65 the sale of the business of the four firms 2018 to 1 July 2019.
The DoL intends to in its independent brokerdealer network complete its review under the Presidential to LPL Financial LLC LPL.
With the US Memorandum, instructing the DoL to financial services industry experiencing reexamine its fiduciary rule and decide 19.4 a time of significant regulatory change whether to propose further changes, and consolidation in the independent leaving the final form of the Rules unclear.
years 2015 brokerdealer IBD sector, Jackson has determined its overall strategy did not 14.3 include being a consolidator in the retail years IBD space.
Rather, our primary strategy is 1960 to focus on expanding Jacksons success as the leading manufacturer of retirement income products in the country.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 25 Adding more to life: Saundra, Jackson My retirement story is about how I want to spend the winter of my life.
Its about having fun, enjoying my family, travelling and having the freedom to do the things I want to do, like spending time with my grandson.
My relationship with my financial adviser is a wonderful one.
He is like a family member and confidant: easy to work with and establish goals.
Im very pleased I chose a Jackson annuity.
It gives me the confidence I need for my retirement.
And to just live my life the way I want to live my life.
Our businesses and their performance continued As a result of the DoL regulatory initiative by industry and interested parties until Jacksons competitive strengths are even and the uncertainties regarding the early March 2018.
Jackson will continue more critical during periods of disruption.
application and implementation of the to engage with the industry and the NAIC Our bestinclass distribution team, our Rules, the annuity industry saw continued during the comment period.
agility and success in launching well pressure on sales in 2017.
Sales in the designed products, the continued success On 22 December, 2017, President Trump variable annuity industry as of the third through many economic cycles of our risk signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 10 quarter of 2017 at US$70.9 billion were management and hedging programmes making significant changes to Americas down 11 per cent compared with the same and our effective technology platforms tax code.
In 2017, the lowering of the period last year.
Even with competitors and awardwinning customer service will corporate tax rate resulted in a charge for recently offering fixed index annuities with provide Americans with the retirement the reduction of Jacksons deferred tax benefits that resemble those of variable strategies they so desperately need, and assets.
In the future, the lower rate and the annuities, sales of fixed index annuities will enable us to be positioned to capture effect of other changes to the calculation 10 US$42.9 billion along with fixed annuity additional growth during times of transition of taxable income are expected to lead to 10 products US$38.9 billion were lower as and into the future.
higher aftertax earnings, return on equity of the third quarter of 2017 at 9 per cent and capital generation, all else being equal.
and 13 per cent respectively, compared with the same period last year.
Total Investment for growth annuity industry sales were down With trillions of dollars of adviser 10 approximately 11 per cent as of the distributed assets across distribution third quarter of 2017. platforms that have not historically been a focus, such as the dually registered Regardless of the outcome of the Rules, investment adviser channel, there is the regulatory disruption has challenged significant opportunity to reach even more the industry to review the ways in which American retirees and serve their needs investment advice is provided to American with annuity products going forward.
Manufacturers will need to have The industry will need to remain flexible the ability to provide product and system and costeffective in making changes to adaptations in order to support the success products, systems, and processes.
of various distribution partners in their We continue to ensure that we understand delivery of invaluable retirement strategies and make the necessary adjustments to that investors need.
Because of its strong Barry Stowe support the needs and demands of distribution, leadership in the annuities Chairman and Chief Executive American retirees into the future.
market, bestinclass service and lowcost North American Business Unit efficient operation, Jackson is extremely Jackson has implemented changes well positioned to take advantage of this necessary to meet the requirements of the opportunity.
sections of the fiduciary rules which are effective.
Jackson has made and continues The US National Association of Insurance to consider changes to its product Commissioners NAIC is currently offerings, entered into new selling conducting an industry consultation with agreements with advisory providers, and the aim of reducing the noneconomic is working with its distributors to support volatility in the variable annuity statutory implementation of the Best Interest balance sheet and enhancing risk Contract Exemption or product changes to management.
Following an industry the extent those become necessary before quantitative impact study QIS, changes July 2019. have been proposed to the current framework.
These changes were presented to the December NAIC national meeting, and were exposed for comment Evolution of capabilities to succeed in the advisory market Nearterm Midterm Longterm Product Changing the New selling Technology launches narrative agreements integration 26 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Creating value and benefiting Driving our business our stakeholders Many retirees or soon to be retirees Customers Average of 10,000 Americans face a reality of undersaving, having no 5 retire per day guaranteed income source and the prospect of living longer than any prior generation.
Assisting 4 million customers Jacksons focus is to provide solutions to with their financial needs help address these concerns for the millions of Americans currently transitioning to and through retirement.
Jacksons products provide needed access Products 2 of the top 10 variable annuity to equity market growth, protection of 6 contracts by premium principal, and a way of converting retirees savings into retirement income with a Perspective II is the #1 selling degree of certainty.
With a long history of 6 variable annuity contract disciplined product design and prudent risk management, Jackson has earned and continues to earn trust from its key stakeholders.
Jacksons distribution teams set us apart Distribution Largest VA wholesale from our competitors.
Jacksons wholesaling 7 distribution force in the US force is the largest and most productive in the industry, supporting thousands of Most productive advisers across multiple channels and VA wholesale distribution force distribution outlets.
7 in the US Jackson continues to invest in technology Corporate Insight Annuity Monitor Investment and innovative products to efficiently and Awards for excellence in the online effectively adapt to what our customers and and offline experience offered to for growth regulatory environment require.
Jackson prospects, clients and advisers has recently launched an advisory version Approximately 35% of Jacksons of our flagship product Perspective II and advisory variable annuity sales from our innovative Elite Access product to allow 8 new advisers for penetration into untapped distribution channels.
Notes 1 Growth rate on a constant exchange rate basis.
Total sales 2 US Census Bureau Population division 2014 estimate of by Contract 3Q YTD 2017.
Jacksons Perspective II for by company and channel 3Q YTD 2017.
base states ranks #1 and Elite Access for base states ranks out of 25 companies in the Independent NASD channel, 3 2016 Federal Reserve Boards Triennial Survey of #8 for Total VA Sales out of 991 VA contracts with #1 out of 19 companies in the Bank channel, #1 out of 14 Consumer Finances.
reported sales to Morningstars quarterly sales survey as companies in the Wirehouse channel, and #2 out of 19 4 US Department of Health and Human Services, Health, of 3Q YTD 2017. companies in the Regional Firms channel.
7 Independent research and Market Metrics, a Strategic 10 LIMRA Secure Retirement Institute, US Individual 5 Social Security Administration, Annual Performance Plan Insight Business.
Annuity Participants Report 3Q YTD 2017. for FY 2012, and Revised Final Performance Plan for FY 8 New advisers defined as producers who have not sold 2011.
6 2018 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
The 9 2018 Morningstar Inc. All Rights Reserved.
The information contained herein: 1 is proprietary to information contained herein: 1 is proprietary to Morningstar and or its content providers: 2 is not Morningstar and or its content providers: 2 is not warranted to be accurate, complete, or timely.
Neither warranted to be accurate, complete, or timely.
Neither Morningstar nor its content providers are responsible for Morningstar nor its content providers are responsible for any damages or losses arising from any use of this any damages or losses arising from any use of this information.
Past performance is no guarantee of future information.
Past performance is no guarantee of future www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 27 Our businesses and their performance United Kingdom and Europe Creating a simple, modern savings and investments business.
1 Understanding our markets Managing 351 billion of assets for In August 2017, we combined M&G, our over seven million customers in the UK 2017 international investment management and internationally, M&G Prudential has business, with Prudentials UK and investment expertise, scale and financial performance European life insurance business to form strength and two wellrespected brands highlights M&G Prudential.
We also announced a M&G Investments and Prudential UK.
major investment programme in the new With the substantial investment we will combined businesss infrastructure to be making over the next five years in Announcement of merger of M&G improve customer service, accelerate transforming the businesss operations, and Prudentials UK and European product development and widen including building our digital distribution business customer choice.
capability, M&G Prudential is well placed Start of major investment to meet the growing and evolving saving M&G Prudential serves two of the worlds programme to improve customer and investment needs of customers across largest savings and investments markets service, accelerate product intermediated, institutional and retail with asset pools in the UK and Europe of development and widen customer direct channels.
choice Across the region, people increasingly Customers Total M&G Prudential assets need help to meet their longterm financing Whether were helping an individual saver 1 under management of goals as responsibility for retirement plan for their future with more confidence, 351 billion, up 13 per cent savings passes from state and employer to or helping a big pension fund to meet its the individual.
They want easy access to future commitments to pensioners, serving Net investment inflows to mutual savings and investment solutions, as well the longterm interests of our customers funds and institutional investment as guidance and advice from trusted is key to the longterm performance of strategies of 17.3 billion providers.
In addition, persistently low our business.
PruFund range reaches 36 billion rates of return on bank cash deposits are in customer assets under fuelling demand for investment solutions, management, up 46 per cent whether people are saving for retirement, building a lump sum or protecting their 45 per cent growth in funds under wealth from inflation.
advice from our in house direct advice service, Prudential Financial Planning, to 5.5 billion Assets under management 31 Dec 2017 Customers Investment UK customers 36bn 186k direct customers funds PruFund 36bn 400k customers Traditional 151bn 6.6m customers products Leading crossborder European customers 44bn fund sales Institutions 84bn 794 clients 1,2 351bn 7.2m customers 28 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults We offer a range of investment and saving We see significant opportunities for Our products propositions to different customer groups.
continued revenue growth in four of these Our aim is to provide our customers with customer segments, including from the savings and investment solutions which In the UK, we manage the savings of direct synergies available from the combination of meet their longterm financial needs and and intermediated customers through a our investment management and savings goals, in the structure which best suits range of mutual funds.
We are also a and retirement solutions businesses.
Behind these solutions is a powerful leading provider of savings and retirement We also see an opportunity to offer investment engine: a highly skilled team solutions to direct and advised UK customers in our existing book of of over 120 fund managers who put our customers with a 19 per cent market share traditional savings products a new set of customers money to work by sourcing in life and pensions retail investments as at propositions as their needs evolve.
investment opportunities globally across a end September 2017, including the popular wide spectrum of asset classes, including and successful PruFund proposition in a The expertise of the business in delivering equities, bonds, credit, real estate and cash number of different wrappers.
We also investment outcomes for all of our across both private and public markets.
have a large book of UK customers who customers is demonstrated by the scale of own traditional insurancebased savings our operations.
In total, M&G Prudential Of the total of 351 billion in assets under 1 products.
In continental Europe, where we fund managers invest over 187 billion management across our entire product have a leading position in crossborder of assets on behalf of Prudential range, approximately 60 per cent is now 2 fund distribution with 44 billion in assets policyholders, in addition to the 164 billion invested in multiasset solutions and under management, customers in of assets for customers invested in M&G strategies, including the market leading 17 countries are able to access our mutual funds and institutional strategies.
36 billion PruFund range and the strongly investment strategies.
Finally, we manage This combined investment footprint performing 12 billion Episode Allocation the pension and other longterm savings bolsters our investment solution capabilities range.
This expertise in asset allocation is a of millions of people through our allowing us to build the business around key part of our investment capability and has relationships with 794 institutional clients, our customers and use our experience again driven substantial inflows over the last including 70 per cent of the UKs 50 largest and insights to meet their needs.
year, as customers across the UK and Europe pension schemes.
have continued to seek the diversification and flexibility of a multiasset solution.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 29 Adding more to life: Maureen, M&G Prudential I was in my early 20s when I started investing with M&G through a monthly savings plan.
I found the idea of investing with other people in different companies fascinating.
I wasnt saving up for anything specific, but I wanted to put my money to work for the future either for a big purchase, like a home, or just for more financial security.
At the end of the day, money can give you choices.
You never know what opportunities or challenges might be around the corner.
And not just for yourself its great to be able to help your family.
Having grown over the years, my investments with M&G have given me more options in life.
Decades on from the first 10 I put in to one of their funds, I really value still being an investor.
Our businesses and their performance continued 3 Mutual fund investment performance, net of fees, PruFund investment performance 4 weighted by: assets under management 100% % 71% 80% 75% 39% 25% 42% 53% 50% 45% 35% 25% 18% 13% 4% 0% 14% 12% 17% 25% 12% 13% -25% 15% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 One year Dec 2017 Three years Dec 2017 Five years Dec 2017 Since fund manager tenure Dec 2017 Average 6.1 years PruFund Growth First quartile Third quartile ABI sector comparator Second quartile Fourth quartile Other products include a range of decade.
This return for its customers has For our own life funds as well as for unitlinked and collective investments, been rewarded with net inflows of over our thirdparty institutional clients, and within our corporate pension portfolio 5 billion during 2017, bringing its assets we continue to deliver innovative and we continue to facilitate a range of under management to 23 billion.
competitive investment strategies to autoenrolment services.
We are leading This year we added our first openended investors in alternative assets such as For our savings and retirement customers infrastructure fund to our range, which commercial real estate debt, infrastructure we offer the PruFund range, which invests aims to provide individual investors with debt and equity, and direct lending.
These in our withprofits fund, the largest in the both a growing income stream and private assets are increasingly attractive UK.
The withprofits fund aims to smooth longterm capital appreciation through options for investors looking for a yield to some of the extreme ups and downs of exposure to the equity of global listed match their longterm pension liabilities, shortterm investment performance to infrastructure companies.
We also and of course also provide a valuable provide a more stable return.
It has launched the M&G ESG Global High Yield source of competitivelypriced funding for performed well over the past five years: Fund, a sister fund to our 1 billion Global new housing and infrastructure projects.
for example, customers in the PruFund High Yield Bond Fund.
The new fund is Growth Fund have seen growth of aimed at meeting the needs of individual Reflecting growing demand from 36 per cent since the start of 2013 against investors seeking higher yield.
institutional clients for investments which benchmark growth of 30 per cent.
make a positive societal and environmental During 2017, we also launched a further impact, in 2017 we seeded our first Impact For direct investors in the UK and six M&G funds on our new Luxembourg Financing Fund with investment from the intermediated customers in the UK and domiciled SICAV platform.
As one of the Prudential life business and two thirdparty internationally, we offer a range of 75 open most popular investment vehicles within investors.
Through private and illiquid debt ended funds.
The range offers a broad Europe, the ability to offer SICAV funds will transactions, the fund is already financing choice of asset types, geographies and enable us to expand and deepen our highly projects including a regeneration scheme, investment strategies to help achieve a successful international business further green energy and social housing diversified portfolio.
Our funds generally over the coming years.
aim to deliver a rising income stream, will also ensure we can continue to serve longterm capital growth or a mixture of our Europeanbased customers regardless Distribution both, and the vast majority are available in of the outcome of Brexit negotiations In M&G and Prudential, we have two ISA or JISA wrappers to UK direct between the UK and the EU.
To that end, wellrespected and complementary customers.
Almost all of our funds are in September we announced our plans to brands: Prudential is closely associated managed actively for the long term.
migrate assets in four UKdomiciled funds with retirement in the UK, while M&G held by European customers to the SICAV is recognised as a leading investment Our openended flexible global bond fund, platform during 2018. brand, both in the UK and across the M&G Optimal Income Fund, performed international markets.
Having achieved an average annualised return of over 7 per cent since its launch in 2006, Optimal Income has been one of the top performing bond funds across all sectors over the last 30 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Creating value and benefiting Driving our business our stakeholders Meeting the growing and fastevolving Customers 7.2 million customers saving and investment needs of customers across retail, institutional and direct 351 billion total assets channels.
1 under management across a broad range of strategies and asset classes Market leading propositions, including Products 36 billion PruFund and the M&G Optimal Income PruFund assets under management Fund, available in a number of saving and investment wrappers: and a range of Launch of new M&G Global Listed strategies to help institutional customers Infrastructure Fund meet their longterm commitments.
Multichannel distribution, based on strong Distribution 5,400 adviser firms dealing relationships with institutional investors, with M&G Prudential advisors and intermediaries, and substantial directtocustomer franchises, including MyPru and MyM&G digital services Prudential Financial Planning.
for direct customers Extension of SICAV fund platform for European growth Investing circa 250 million of shareholders Roll out of new scalable, simplified Investment funds into our infrastructure to improve investment platform through Aladdin customer service and business efficiency implementation for growth and drive longterm growth.
Strategic partnership with Tata Consultancy Services leveraging digital capabilities to enhance customers experience www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 31 Our businesses and their performance continued While our two brands occupy different Investment for growth market segments, both share a common In a world of low interest rates and philosophy of aiming to deliver excellent increasing life expectancy, more people longterm customer outcomes, and both than ever need longterm savings and offer solutions powered by a worldclass investment solutions.
We also know that investment capability.
Working together our customers have far higher expectations as M&G Prudential gives us new of service and value for money, thanks to opportunities for growth by building on new technology and digital disruption.
these shared values and strengths.
Over the last 169 years we have had a proud track record of innovating to deliver In the UK, where both M&G and Prudential good outcomes to our customers, but we products are distributed, we will be need to invest in our business to continue building on the great success of the to do so.
Over the next five years, we will PruFund range by broadening the existing be investing circa 250 million of proposition, making full use of M&G and shareholders funds in our business, John Foley Prudentials combined distribution network including a new digital infrastructure which Chief Executive and making our customers experiences will improve customer service, accelerate M&G Prudential whether direct or advised as good as product development and increase possible throughout the lifetime of their customer choice.
Our digital transformation such as the recently announced Tata programme is essential to this, providing Consultancy Services partnership to the infrastructure necessary to offer good enhance service for our UK savings and value, state of the art solutions.
retirement customers, are an important With over 15 years of experience in part of these plans to improve customer international distribution, offices in outcomes.
With a simpler, more efficient, 18 countries and a new Luxembourg digitally enabled business, we will respond investment platform, we are well placed to quicker and better to our customers continue to take advantage of the attractive needs, offer better value and compete at growth opportunities in Europe and scale in our markets even more effectively.
This includes retail distribution in Europe, and in international institutional markets, where our strong track record in private asset origination is a real competitive advantage.
Notes 1 Represents M&G Prudential asset management external 4 Quartile ranking based on ranking of the funds 71.2bn AUM, fund manager tenure figures represent funds under management and internal funds included representative share class, net of fees, within their 78.2bn AUM.
Performance figures in GBP, bid to bid, on the M&G Prudential longterm insurance business respective Investment Association IA or Morningstar net income reinvested.
Average fund manager tenure balance sheet.
Source: M&G Prudential, 2 Europe includes AUM in Asia and South Africa.
AUM was 79.7bn as at 31 December 2017, representing December 2017.
IA and Morningstar Inc. combined 3 ABI Mixed Investment 20 per cent 60 per cent Shares 23 per cent of the total M&G Prudential AUM.
One year UK and PanEuropean peer groups as at end performance is net of charge.
PruFund returns are also figures represent 78.1bn AUM, three year figures December 2017. net of charge 0.65 per cent.
represent 76.1bn AUM, 5 year figures represent 32 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
