112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 31 December 2017 The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonBASIS OF PREPARATION controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any Compliance with IFRS previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the total of consideration in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised the Companies Act 2006 applicable to Companies reporting under IFRSs.
directly in the income statement.
The financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the International Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on Accounting Standards Board IASB.
transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure Historical cost convention consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, except for Transactions with non-controlling interests the following: Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of available-for-sale financial assets, certain financial assets and liabilities control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, as transactions including derivative financial instruments which are measured at fair with the owners in their capacity as owners.
value: and The difference between the fair value of any consideration paid and the defined benefit pension plans where plan assets are measured relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary at fair value.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND Disposal of subsidiaries INTERPRETATIONS EFFECTIVE IN 2017 When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the No new standards, amendments or interpretations, effective for the first change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2017 have had a material impact on the Group.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for Subsidiaries as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other Group has control.
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights Associates to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
 basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
If a business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides charge to other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that is evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is of the associates have been modified where necessary to ensure accounted for within equity.
consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 113 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Goodwill is not amortised but it is tested for impairment annually, or more SEGMENT REPORTING frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal impaired, and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as generating units, or groups of cash generating units, for the purpose of the Chief Executive Officer.
Cash generating units represent the lowest level of geographical and business segment combinations that the Group uses for FOREIGN CURRENCIES internal reporting purposes.
Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in Computer software which the entity operates the functional currency.
Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the costs incurred to acquire them and bring them to use.
These costs the Groups functional and presentational currency.
are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an Transactions and balances expense as incurred.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Development costs that are directly associated with the production of Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity development employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Capitalised development costs are amortised over their Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at estimated useful lives from the point when the asset is ready to use.
fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain The rates of amortisation are between 14% and 100% per annum.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in other Capitalised employment contract payments comprehensive income.
The Group makes payments to certain key employees in recognition of them signing a long-term employment contract, usually three to five years.
Group companies These payments are capitalised as intangible assets since legal rights The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which protect the expected benefits that the Group will derive from the contracts.
has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional The asset recognised is then amortised over the duration of the underlying currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the contract within salaries and associated expenses.
presentational currency as follows: i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated Other at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: For acquisitions completed after 1st January 2004, the business acquired is reviewed to identify assets that meet the definition of an intangible ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at asset per IAS 38.
Examples of such assets include customer contracts, average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable expectations of business renewal and contract related customer approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the relationships.
These assets are valued on the basis of the present value transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated of future cash flows and are amortised to the income statement over the at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and life of the contract or their estimated economic life.
The current maximum iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other estimated economic life is fifteen years.
On consolidation exchange differences arising from the translation of IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency Goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life are instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever differences are reclassified to the income statement as part of the gain or events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may loss on sale.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other sell and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets comprehensive income.
are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
GOODWILL ARISING ON CONSOLIDATION Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired Assets are stated at their net book amount historical cost less subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of of subsidiaries is shown separately on the Balance Sheet.
Goodwill on the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates.
condition for its intended use.
114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of such assets over their Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets are estimated useful lives.
remeasured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Thereafter, the assets or disposal group are recognised at the lower of The principal rates of depreciation are as follows: their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets classified as Freehold land and buildings - between 0% and 2% per annum.
Impairment losses on initial classification Leasehold improvements - between 10% and 20% per annum or as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are over the life of the lease.
included in the income statement.
Furniture and office equipment - between 10% and 20% per annum.
Offsetting financial instruments Computer hardware - between 20% and 100% per annum.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the Motor vehicles - between 25% and 33 1 3% per annum.
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis The depreciation rates are reviewed on an annual basis.
or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be FINANCIAL ASSETS enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
The Group classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables and available-for-sale assets.
The classification depends upon the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the INSURANCE BROKING RECEIVABLES AND classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
PAYABLES Loans and receivables Insurance brokers act as agents in placing the insurable risks of their Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or clients with insurers and, as such, are not liable as principals for amounts determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are arising from such transactions.
In recognition of this relationship, debtors included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months from insurance broking transactions are not included as an asset of the after the balance sheet date.
Other than the receivable for fees and commissions earned on a The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables transaction, no recognition of the insurance transaction occurs until the and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Loans and Group receives cash in respect of premiums or claims, at which time a receivables are carried at amortised cost.
corresponding liability is established in favour of the insurer or the client.
In certain circumstances, the Group advances premiums, refunds or Available-for-sale financial assets claims to insurance underwriters or clients prior to collection.
Available-for-sale financial assets are categorised into one of two categories: These advances are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as part of trade receivables.
1 Investments and deposits consist mainly of fixed term deposits, bonds and certificates of deposit.
These investments are held at fair value and are classified as current or non-current assets depending TRADE RECEIVABLES on the maturity date.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at 2 Other investments include securities and other investments held for amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
These investments are held at fair value unless A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there a fair value cannot be accurately determined in which case they are is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial Interest on deposits and interest-bearing investments is credited in the difficulties of the debtor, dispute, default or delinquency in payments are income statement as it is earned.
considered indicators that the receivable is impaired.
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an trade date - the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the cash flows have expired or have been transferred and the Group has allowance account for trade receivables.
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-forsale assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS The fair values of quoted investments are determined based upon current Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call bid price.
with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Whilst held in the Groups non-statutory trust accounts under appropriate Interest on available-for-sale securities calculated using the effective client money regulation, fiduciary funds held are controlled by the Group interest method is recognised in the income statement as part of finance and economic benefits are derived from them.
As such these funds are income.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised recognised as an asset on the Groups balance sheet.
in the income statement as part of finance income when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
TRADE PAYABLES Held-for-sale financial assets Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently Non-current assets are classified as held-for-sale if their carrying amount measured at amortised cost except for contingent considerations, will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing which is always measured at fair value based on the underlying criteria use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly of each transaction.
probable and the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 115 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The costs of the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are BORROWINGS charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months Share-based compensation after the balance sheet date.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based value, net of transaction costs incurred.
They are subsequently stated at compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined DEFERRED INCOME TAX by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year at current rates and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in of tax and takes into account deferred tax.
assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting are credited to share capital at nominal value and share premium excess nor taxable profit or loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred income tax over nominal value when the options are exercised.
is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES deferred income tax liability is settled.
A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether Deferred income tax is charged or credited to equity in respect of any legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable items, which is itself either charged or credited directly to equity.
that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Any subsequent recognition of the deferred gain or loss in the Where appropriate the Group discounts provisions to their present value.
consolidated income statement is accompanied by the corresponding The unwinding of the provision discounting is included as an interest deferred income tax.
expense within finance costs in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
REVENUE Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Fees and commissions investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group Fees and commissions are derived from three principal sources: controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it Insurance broking is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Income relating to insurance broking is accounted for at the later of foreseeable future.
policy inception date or when the policy placement has been completed and confirmed.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Where there is an expectation of future servicing requirements an element of income relating to the policy is deferred to cover the associated Pension obligations contractual obligation.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, and a number of employees are members of defined contribution Employee benefits pension schemes.
Income relating to employee benefits services includes fees and commissions.
Fees are charged on a time-cost or fixed-fee basis and Full actuarial valuations of the Groups defined benefit schemes are carried are recognised in line with the performance of the underlying service.
out at least every three years.
Commission is recognised upon confirmation of the underlying policy A qualified actuary updates these valuations to 31 December each year.
For the purposes of these annual updates, scheme assets are included Other services at market value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis Fees and other income receivable are recognised in the period to which using the projected unit credit method: these liabilities are discounted at they relate and when they can be measured with reasonable certainty.
the current rate of return of a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term.
The defined benefit surplus or deficit is calculated as Investment income the present value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of the Investment income arises from the holding of cash and investments plan assets and is included on the Groups balance sheet.
Surpluses are relating to fiduciary funds and is recognised on an accruals basis.
included only to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes.
The net EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS interest on the defined benefit surplus deficit is included within finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses, including differences between the Exceptional items are separately identified to provide greater expected and actual return on scheme assets, are recognised through the understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
Items classified consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
as exceptional items may include, but are not limited to: gains or losses arising from the sale of businesses and investments: closure A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group costs for businesses: restructuring costs: professional fees in respect pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal of acquisitions: post acquisition integration costs: post acquisition or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does adjustments to balance sheet items: and other credits and charges of a not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to non-recurring nature that require inclusion in order to provide additional employee service in the current and prior periods.
insight into the underlying business performance.
Items of a non-recurring 116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED and material nature are charged or credited to operating profit and are recognised as a charge to equity once approved and interim dividends are classified to the appropriate income statement headings.
To assist in the analysis and understanding of the underlying trading position of the Group these items are summarised within the operating FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT profit, note 3 on page 122, under the heading Exceptional items.
The Groups exposure to financial risks and its financial and capital management policies are detailed in the Finance Directors Review and the LEASES Risk Management Report on pages 38 to 45.
Assets held under leasing agreements, which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group, are included in property, CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND plant and equipment.
The capital elements of the related lease obligations JUDGMENTS are included in liabilities.
The interest elements of the lease obligations are Estimates and judgments used in preparing the financial statements are charged to the income statement over the period of the lease term.
continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the reasonable.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom lease term.
equal the related actual results.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership The estimates and assumptions that have a significant effect on the are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the a Fair value estimation lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as available-for-sale is based upon quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Group is the current bid price.
The Group only enters into derivative financial instruments in order to The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and hedge underlying financial and commercial exposures.
payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair values of Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on financial liabilities are estimated by discounting the future contractual cash the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently reflows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss is dependent on the The fair value of acquired intangible assets is estimated based upon the nature of the item being hedged.
present value of modelled related expected future cash flows.
The Group designates derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value Judgement may be applied in the determination of the growth rates, of a recognised asset or liability fair value hedge, a hedge of a discount rates and the expected cash flows.
forecasted transaction or of the foreign currency risk on a firm b Impairment of assets commitment cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that have foreign entity net investment hedges.
indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets are reviewed Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that fair value hedges and that are highly effective, are recorded in the income the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
statement, along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify managements assumptions and estimates.
This determination requires as cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are recognised in significant judgment.
In making this judgment, the Group evaluates, equity.
Where the forecasted transaction or firm commitment results in among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an the recognition of a non-financial asset or of a non-financial liability, the investment is less than its cost: and the financial health of and near-term gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity business outlook for the investment, including factors such as industry and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
and sector performance, changes in regional economies and operational Otherwise, amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the consolidated and financing cash flow.
income statement and classified as income or expense in the same c Income taxes periods during which the hedged firm commitment or forecasted transaction affects the income statement.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for immediately in the income statement.
which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or course of business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is loss existing in equity at that time remains in the hedging reserves and different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences is reclassified to the income statement when a hedge no longer meets will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in the criteria for hedge accounting or when the committed or forecasted which such determination is made.
When a committed or forecasted transaction d Pension obligations is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately recognised in the income statement.
The present value of pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumption used in determining the net cost or income for pension DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION obligations is a discount rate based upon high quality corporate bonds.
Dividends proposed or declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Final dividends are STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 117 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Any changes in the assumptions may impact the carrying amount of For financial liabilities there were no changes to classification and pension obligations, the charge in the income statement, or statement of measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk comprehensive income.
in OCI, for liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss unless such presentation would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each profit or loss.
This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle On initial application of IFRS 9, an entity may elect, as its accounting policy the pension obligations.
to continue to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 instead of the hedge accounting requirements of the new standard.
IFRS 9 relaxes In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in effectiveness tests.
It requires an economic relationship between the the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to hedged item and hedging instrument and for the hedged ratio to be the maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Other same as the one management actually use for risk management purposes.
key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to that market conditions.
As well as the discount rate, the inflation rates and life currently prepared under IAS 39.
The changes to the hedge accounting expectancy are also key assumptions.
requirements are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
To set the price inflation assumptions the Group considers market expectations of inflation at the appropriate durations.
Adjustments are IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers made to these rates where necessary to reflect an inflation risk premium.
IFRS 15 addresses revenue recognition for customer contracts, with In determining the life expectancy assumptions the Group considers the particular focus on aligning revenue recognition with the separate and mortality assumptions used by the Trustees of the pension schemes in their distinct performance obligations to the customer.
The standard replaces latest actuarial valuations and also mortality guidance laid out by legislation.
IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and related This enables the Group to determine a best estimate of life expectancy that interpretations.
IFRS 15 includes prescriptive guidance to deal with specific is appropriate for accounting purposes.
scenarios and requires more extensive disclosures.
IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. e Litigation and other provisions The Group will report its financial results on this basis for the half year period During the ordinary course of business the Group can be subject to claims ending 30 June 2018, and full year period ending 31 December 2018, as for errors and omissions made in connection with its broking activities.
well as restated comparative results for these periods.
A balance sheet provision is established in respect of such claims when it The new standard requires that revenue is only recognised when the is probable that the liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability performance obligation has been satisfied and the customer obtains control can be reasonably estimated.
Under existing accounting policies, the primary trigger for The Group analyses its litigation exposures based on available information, revenue recognition in the Groups Risk and Insurance business is the later including external legal consultation where appropriate, to assess its of policy inception date, or the date on which the placement is completed potential liability.
and confirmed to the customer.
This remains the same under the new standard.
In certain service agreements this will defer the recognition The outcome of the currently pending and future proceedings cannot be of revenue compared to the Groups current policy, but the Group will predicted with certainty.
Thus, an adverse decision in a current or future recognise a fulfilment cost asset for work performed where such cost is lawsuit could result in additional costs that are not covered, either wholly expected to be recovered.
or partially, under insurance policies and are in excess of the presently established provisions.
It is possible therefore that the financial position, The Group defers some elements of revenue currently, primarily to results of operations or cash flows of the Group could be materially affected reflect anticipated claims handling activity.
This will continue under the by the unfavourable outcome of litigation.
new standard, but will be re-measured.
In addition, the Group will now recognise a deferral against cancellation, which under the Groups current FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS policy is recognised at the point of cancellation.
The Group will also defer revenue in respect of other performance obligations that are separate and The following standards have been published but are not mandatory for distinct, which is not expected to be significant.
31 December 2017 reporting period and the Group has not adopted them early.
The new standard introduces the recognition of those costs that are directly attributable to obtaining the contract, where these are expected to IFRS 9, Financial instruments be recovered.
This is a new requirement for the Group and will create the IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of recognition of a new set of assets, which will then be amortised to match financial assets and financial liabilities.
The standard is effective for annual the recognition of revenue.
Under the Groups current policy these costs periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
It replaces the guidance have been expensed as incurred.
in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of financial The Balance Sheet will introduce new classifications being contract assets instruments.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and liabilities.
and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income OCI and Work continues on the refinement of the Groups policy, but it is expected fair value through profit or loss.
that the change will result in a reduction of the Groups 2017 opening retained earnings in the range of 33 to 37 million, a reduction in the 2017 The basis of classification depends on the entitys business model and the profit before tax of approximately 4.5 million and a reduction in profit after contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
Investments in tax of approximately 3.5 million.
Cash flows will be unaltered.
equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value IFRS 16 Leases in OCI not recycling.
The Group does not expect any material change in the IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease measurement of its financial assets and liabilities.
payments and a right-of-use asset for virtually all lease contracts.
This There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred differs from IAS 17 Leases where a distinction between a finance lease loss impairment model used in IAS 39.
Under IFRS 9, it is not necessary on balance sheet and an operating lease off balance sheet was required.
for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognised.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January The new impairment model will mainly affect the Groups trade receivables 2019 and earlier application is permitted.
The Group is in the process of and contract assets.
The Group expects to apply the simplified approach assessing IFRS 16s full impact.
to recognise lifetime expected credit losses for its trade receivables and contract assets.
The impact on 2017 opening retained earnings and on the 2017 results is not expected to be material.
