Accounting policies continued j Functional currency The Company is required to identify its functional currency, being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Board, having regard to the currency of the Companys share capital and the predominant currency in which its shareholders operate, has determined that sterling is the functional currency.
Sterling is also the currency in which the financial statements are presented.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are converted at actual exchange rates at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities and equity investments held at fair value denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in revenue or capital, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a revenue or capital nature.
k Dividends payable Dividends are included in the financial statements in the year in which they are approved by shareholders.
l Repurchase of shares into Treasury The cost of repurchasing shares into Treasury, including the related stamp duty and transaction costs is charged to capital reserves and dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Share repurchase transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
Where shares held in Treasury are subsequently cancelled, the nominal value of those shares is transferred out of called up share capital and into capital redemption reserve.
Should shares held in Treasury be reissued, the sales proceeds will be treated as a realised profit up to the amount of the purchase price of those shares and will be transferred to capital reserves.
The excess of the sales proceeds over the purchase price will be transferred to share premium.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Companys financial statements on occasion requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the primary financial statements and the accompanying disclosures.
These assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in the current and future periods, depending on circumstance.
The Directors do not believe that any significant accounting judgements or estimates have been applied to this set of financial statements, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 2017 2016 000 000 Gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss based on historical cost 165,656 81,561 Amounts recognised in investment holding gains and losses in the previous year in respect of investments sold during the year 153,939 51,898 Gains on sales of investments based on the carrying value at the previous balance sheet date 11,717 29,663 Net movement in investment holding gains and losses 86,028 210,186 Other capital charges 11 10 Total capital gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss 97,734 239,839 5 2 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 7 F
