Further information on Directors Information on a number of regulations and processes relevant to Directors, and how these are addressed by Prudential, is given below.
Area Prudentials approach Rules governing The appointment and removal of Directors is governed by the provisions in the Articles of Association the appointment and Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code, the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code removal HK Code as appended to the Hong Kong Listing Rules the HK Listing Rules and the Companies Act 2006.
Terms of Nonexecutive Director tenure is shown on page 150. appointment Nonexecutive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, commencing with their election by shareholders.
Subject to review by the Nomination & Governance Committee and reelection by shareholders, it would be expected that Nonexecutive Directors serve a second term of three years.
After six years, Nonexecutive Directors may be appointed for a further year, up to a maximum of three years in total.
Reappointment is subject to rigorous review as well as reelection by shareholders.
The Directors remuneration report sets out the terms of the Nonexecutive Directors letters of appointment on page 130 and the terms of Executive Directors service contracts on page 150.
Time At present, the average time commitment expected of a Nonexecutive Director is 32.5 days per annum.
commitment In addition, all Nonexecutive Directors currently serve on at least one of the Boards principal Committees, which requires an additional commitment of time dependent on the Committee and role.
On appointment, all Nonexecutive Directors confirm they are able to devote sufficient time to the Groups affairs to meet the demands of the role.
All Nonexecutive Directors are required to discuss any additional commitments which might impact the time which he or she is able to devote to their role with the Chairman prior to accepting.
Independence The independence of the Nonexecutive Directors is determined by reference to the UK Code and HK Listing Rules as follows: for the purposes of the UK Code, throughout the year, all Nonexecutive Directors were considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and to have met the criteria for independence as set out in the UK Code: and all the Nonexecutive Directors were considered independent for the purposes of the HK Listing Rules, and each Nonexecutive Director provides an annual confirmation of his or her independence as required under the HK Listing Rules.
In accordance with US regulatory requirements, Prudential affirms annually that all members of the Audit Committee are independent within the meaning of the SarbanesOxley legislation.
Prudential is one of the UKs largest institutional investors.
The Board does not believe that this compromises the independence of those Nonexecutive Directors who are on the boards of companies in which the Group has a shareholding.
The Board also believes that such shareholdings should not preclude the Company from having the most appropriate and highest calibre Nonexecutive Directors.
Audit Committee In relation to the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and HK Listing Rules, the Board is satisfied experience that Mr Law has recent and relevant financial experience and that the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sectors in which the business operates.
Full biographies of the Committee members including experience and professional qualifications, are set out on pages 86 and 87.
The Board has determined that Mr Law qualifies as the Audit Committee financial expert under the requirements of Form 20F.
Indemnities Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles permit the Directors and officers of the Company to be indemnified in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Suitable insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action against directors and senior managers of companies within the Group.
Qualifying thirdparty indemnity provisions are also available for the benefit of the Directors of the Company and certain other such persons, including certain directors of other companies within the Group.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions are also in place for the benefit of certain pension trustee directors within the Group.
These indemnities were in force during 2017 and remain so.
Significant At no time during the year did any Director hold a material interest in any contract of significance with the contracts Company or any subsidiary undertaking.
98 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
