Statutory and regulatory disclosures Financial reporting The Directors who held office at the date Powers of the Board The Directors have a duty to report to of approval of this Directors report confirm The Board may exercise all powers shareholders on the performance and that, so far as they are each aware, there is conferred on it by the Companys Articles financial position of the Group and are no relevant audit information of which the and the Companies Act 2006.
This includes responsible for preparing the financial Companys auditor is unaware: each the powers of the Company to borrow statements on pages 160 to 314 and the Director has taken all the steps that he or money and to mortgage or charge any of supplementary information on pages 326 she ought to have taken as a Director to its assets subject to the limitations set out to 359.
It is the responsibility of the auditor make himself or herself aware of any in the Companies Act 2006 and the to form independent opinions, based on relevant audit information and to establish Companys Articles and to give a guarantee, its audit of the financial statements and that the Companys auditor is aware of that security or indemnity in respect of a debt or its audit of the EEV basis supplementary information.
This confirmation is given and other obligation of the Company.
information, and to report its opinions to should be interpreted in accordance with Securities dealing and inside the Companys shareholders and to the the provisions of Section 418 of the information Company.
Its opinions are given on pages Companies Act 2006.
Prudential has adopted securities dealing 315 to 323 and page 360.
Going concern rules relating to transactions by Directors Company law requires the Directors to In accordance with the requirements of the on terms no less exacting than required by prepare financial statements for each guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Appendix 10 to the HK Listing Rules and financial year that give a true and fair view Council in September 2014 Guidance on by relevant UK regulations.
The Directors of the financial affairs of the Company and Risk Management, Internal Control and have complied with these rules throughout of the Group.
The criteria applied in the Related Financial and Business Reporting, the period.
preparation of the financial statements after making sufficient enquiries the The Group has adopted an Inside are set out in the statement of Directors Directors have a reasonable expectation Information Policy which includes guidance responsibilities on pages 314 and 360. that the Company and the Group have and procedures for the identification, Company law also requires the Board to adequate resources to continue their dissemination and escalation of inside approve the Strategic report.
In addition, operations for a period of at least 12 information as well as appropriate controls the UK Code requires the Directors months from the date that the financial on the disclosure of such information in line statement to state that they consider the statements are approved.
In support of with regulatory requirements.
All staff are Annual Report and financial statements, this expectation, the Companys business made aware of the policy and receive taken as a whole is fair, balanced and activities, together with the factors likely to communications reminding them of their understandable and provides the affect its future development, successful obligations when they work on any information necessary for shareholders performance and position in the current confidential matters in the business or are to assess the Companys position and economic climate, are set out in the notified when the Company enters or exits performance, business model and strategy.
Strategic report on pages 10 to 80.
risks facing the Groups capital and liquidity The Directors are further required to positions and their sensitivities are referred confirm that the Strategic report Requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
4 to in the Strategic report on pages 48 to 63 includes a fair review of the development Information to be included in the annual and note II c Solvency Capital Position report and accounts under Listing Rule and performance of the business, with at 31 December 2017 within Additional 9.8.
4 may be found as follows: a description of the principal risks and Unaudited Financial Information.
Such confirmation is Groups IFRS financial statements include Listing included in the statement of Directors the details of the Groups borrowings in Rule Description Page responsibilities on pages 314 and 360.
Note C6 on page 257, the market risk The Strategic report provides, on pages 43 9.8.
4 4 Details of longterm 146 and liquidity analysis associated with the incentive schemes and 44, a description of the Groups capital Groups assets and liabilities can be found position, financing and liquidity.
The risks required by Listing Rule in Note C3.4 a on pages 225 to 227, 9.4.
3 facing the Groups business and how these policyholder liability maturity profile by are managed are discussed in the Report business units in Notes C4.1 b, c and d 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of Significance 98 on the risks facing our business on pages on pages 233, 235 to 237 respectively, cash involving a Director 48 to 63. flow details in the consolidated statement of cash flows and provisions and contingencies in Notes C11 and D2.
The Directors therefore consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
120 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
