01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Eastspring is well placed for the anticipated deliver better collaboration across business Prudential won the growth in Asias retail mutual fund market.
segments and more innovative and insurance category To prepare further, we have strengthened differentiated propositions.
It also provides of Management our inhouse investment teams, entered better access to customers and channels, Todays Britains into new strategic partnerships and made merger cost synergies and transformation Most Admired significant progress in systems and benefits, including the chance to invest to Companies awards operating model upgrades.
In addition, create a digital, dataled business with low in December 2017.
Eastspring recognises that environmental, marginal cost of growth.
M&G Prudential is 19 social and governance ESG factors can be in the top five in UK retail funds, with an We were also named Britains most material to investment returns, particularly active management offering, and provides admired company overall for quality of in the long term, and has become a a range of consumerfocused retirement management and inspirational signatory to the United Nationssupported and savings wrappers.
The performance of leadership and fourth for our ability to Principles for Responsible Investment its products continues to make them very attract and retain top talent.
The highly PRI, joining M&G Prudential asset popular among customers.
The flagship regarded awards are based on a review management.
PruFund Growth Life Fund, for example, by peers.
has grown by 36 per cent since the start of In the United States, we are continuing to 2013, compared with benchmark growth develop our business to ensure we capture of 30 per cent, and this performance has the opportunity presented by the millions We are also continuing to improve both our driven growth in PruFund assets under of Americans moving into retirement now agency platform and our bancassurance management from 7.5 billion in 2012 to and over the coming years.
Regulatory and partnerships in Asia to ensure that we 35.9 billion at the end of 2017.
To improve industry changes are creating new areas of reach as many customers as possible.
the offering to customers, in 2017 the growth potential and we are adapting our Nowhere is this clearer than in China, business rolled out myM&G, its directto offering to meet those opportunities.
where, through our joint venture CITIC consumer platform.
During 2017, in response to evolving Prudential, we now have a presence in conditions in the hybrid adviser segment of We took another step forward in our Africa 77 cities, with access to 940 million people, the market, Jackson launched Perspective business in 2017 when we entered Nigeria, or about 70 per cent of the population of Advisory II, an advisory version of our Africas largest economy and our fifth the worlds most populous country.
We flagship product, Perspective II.
We also market in the region.
Following the launch have over 44,000 agents in China and announced the formation in November of our businesses in Ghana, Kenya, Uganda access to more than 4,000 bank branches.
of our Private Wealth & Trust group, and Zambia, this further demonstrates our Across the region during 2017 we a specialised team focused on complex commitment to Africa and our increased our total agents to over 600,000 planning, investment management and tax determination to bring the benefits of our and we ended the year with over 15 million mitigation strategies for highnetworth products to customers across the region.
At the same time, we are improving announcements of new agreements in the We continue to invest in our capabilities communication for customers, and our Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia and and our people across the organisation.
In initiatives in this area last year included the Vietnam have also increased the reach of July we welcomed Mark FitzPatrick to our launch of a new website, the Financial our bancassurance partnerships.
executive team as Chief Financial Officer, Freedom Studio, where consumers can succeeding Nic Nicandrou, who took over Continuous improvement of our learn about financial planning for from Tony Wilkey as Chief Executive of capabilities is also a key part of our retirement, aimed at simplifying the Prudential Corporation Asia.
Mark brings approach, and in Asia we introduced a language and focusing on planning for with him significant experience and number of digital initiatives that will benefit lifetime income.
knowledge of the sector, and I am both our customers and our shareholders, In the UK and Europe, the combination of confident that Nic will lead our Asian including apps and chatbots, that, among our life and asset management businesses business to further success.
In March 2018 other services, can provide rapid claims into M&G Prudential has enabled us to James Turner was appointed Group Chief payment, constant customer support, meet the needs of our customers better Risk Officer, bringing fresh perspective and answer queries, help schedule than ever before.
The business manages additional leadership capacity to our appointments and transfer feedback from 4 351 billion of assets for more than executive team.
Building on seven million customers, both in the UK its success in Hong Kong, our myDNA and internationally, and we are leveraging service, which provides diet and exercise our scale, financial strength and advice based on genetic profiles, has been complementary product and distribution launched in Vietnam, Malaysia and capabilities to enhance the development of Singapore.
In Singapore we also launched capitalefficient, customerfocused PRU Fintegrate, a new initiative enabling us solutions.
Bringing these businesses to collaborate with fintech startups to together has given us the opportunity to codevelop digital solutions for customers.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 07 Group Chief Executives report Mike Wells continued A positive outlook With our clear strategy focused on longterm trends around the world and continued improvements in our execution capabilities, we are delivering value to our customers, our shareholders and the communities in which we operate.
This is supported by our ongoing focus on risk management and the strength of our balance sheet.
We believe the demerger of M&G Prudential from the international group will leave both businesses better able to focus on meeting our customers rapidly evolving needs and to deliver longterm value to investors as two separate companies.
I have no doubt that the strength of our underlying opportunities and our proven ability to innovate and improve the way we do things, will ensure that both businesses are well positioned to Mike Wells continue to serve our customers well and Group Chief Executive grow profitably into the future.
Notes 1 Source: US Census Bureau, Population Division, 2017 7 Based on the 2017 operating segments.
Source: United estimate of population.
8 The Group shareholder capital position excludes the Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, 2 IFRS operating profit is managements primary measure of contribution to Own Funds and the Solvency Capital Population Division 2015.
World Population Prospects: profitability and provides an underlying operating result Requirement from ringfenced withprofits funds and The 2015 Revision, DVD Edition.
based on longerterm investment returns and excludes staff pension schemes in surplus.
The estimated solvency 14 Source: BCG Global Wealth 2016.
Navigating the New nonoperating items.
Further information on its definition position includes managements calculation of UK Client Landscape.
and reconciliation to profit for the period is set out in note transitional measures reflecting operating and market 15 Source: World health Organisation Global Health B1 of the IFRS financial statements.
conditions at each valuation date.
An application Observatory data repository 2013.
Out of pocket as 3 The current year and all comparative amounts for the Asia to recalculate the transitional measures as at percentage of total health expenditure.
objectives exclude contributions from the Korea life 31 December 2017 has been approved by the 16 Source: Swiss Re Sigma 2015.
Insurance penetration business which was sold in 2017.
The 2017 Asia IFRS Prudential Regulation Authority.
calculated as premiums as percentage of GDP.
Asia operating profit objective was adjusted accordingly.
2012 9 Estimated before allowing for second interim dividend.
penetration calculated on a weighted population basis.
comparative amounts include the oneoff gain on sale of 10 Closing EEV shareholders funds divided by issued shares, 17 Source: Swiss Re, Mortality Protection Gap: AsiaPacific, the stake in China Life of Taiwan of 51 million.
as set out in note II n of the Additional unaudited financial 2015.
4 Represents M&G Prudential asset management external information.
18 Source: Based on formal Competitors results release, funds under management and internal funds included on 11 Embedded value reporting provides investors with a local regulators and insurance associations and informal the M&G Prudential longterm insurance business balance measure of the future profit streams of the Group.
The EEV industry exchange market share data.
basis results have been prepared in accordance with EEV new business APE or weighted FYP depending on the 5 Yearonyear percentage increases are stated on a principles discussed in note 1 of EEV basis results.
constant exchange rate basis unless otherwise stated.
reconciliation between IFRS and the EEV shareholder 19 Source: The Investment Association, September 2017.
6 Underlying free surplus generated comprises underlying funds is included in note II k of the Additional unaudited 20 Relates to 12.0 billion of IFRS shareholder annuity free surplus generated from the Groups longterm financial information.
liabilities, valued as at 31 December 2017. business net of investment in new business and that 12 Growth rate on an actual exchange rate basis.
generated from asset management operations.
Further information is set out in note 11 of the EEV basis results.
08 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults 02 Strategic report Page At a glance 10 Our business model 12 Our distribution 14 Our performance 16 Our businesses and their performance 18 Asia 18 US 24 UK and Europe 28 Chief Financial Officers report on the 2017 financial performance 33 Report on the risks facing our business and how these are managed 48 Corporate responsibility review 64 www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 09
