Our business model Creating shared value Our trusted brands and strong distribution channels enable us to understand the growing needs of our customers for long-term savings and financial security, and to design innovative products that meet those needs.
By helping to build better lives and stronger communities and to fuel the growth cycle, we create long-term value for both our customers and our shareholders.
Understanding our markets Driving our business Asia Customers Customers are at the heart of our strategy.
We proactively listen to both new and Low life insurance and mutual fund existing customers to understand and respond to their changing needs.
This allows penetration us to propose financial solutions customised for different groups, whether that is Significant health and protection young and middleaged people or those in the retirement phase of life.
We are gap expanding our digital infrastructure to enhance our customer experience.
Growing working age population Increasing consumer affluence Our businesses and their performance page 18 Products We offer solutions for customers as they face the biggest financial challenges of their lives.
We consistently develop our product portfolio, designing it around our customers needs and providing them with peace of mind, whether that be in relation to saving for retirement or insuring against risks of illness, death or critical life events.
US Retiring baby boomer generation Large and growing retirement Distribution asset pools Distribution plays a key role in our ability to reach, attract and retain customers Growing demand for guaranteed in different parts of the world.
Building out and diversifying our distribution income capabilities, including adding digital tools, helps ensure that we fully capitalise on the opportunities available to us in each of our markets.
Our businesses and their performance page 24 Investment for growth We focus on strategic investment in longterm opportunities and capabilities to drive future growth and value for our stakeholders.
We invest to improve relationships with our customers and distributors, to create innovative products, to improve UK and Europe our operating platforms and to capture new opportunities and build new relationships.
We invest in digital capabilities to empower our distributors Ageing population and improve customer service.
Large and growing retirement asset pools Growing demand for savings and income Risk management We generate value by selectively taking exposures to risks that are adequately Our businesses and their performance page 28 rewarded and that can be appropriately quantified and managed.
Balance sheet strength and proactive risk management enable us to make good our promises to our customers and create longterm value for our stakeholders.
Report on the risks facing our business page 48 12 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Creating value for our stakeholders Growth We create financial benefits for our investors and deliver economic and social 4,699m benefits for our customers, our employees IFRS operating profit 1 6% on 2016 and the societies in which we operate.
3,616m New business profit 1 12% on 2016 6,598m EEV operating profit 1 15% on 2016 Cash 3,640m Free surplus generation Investors Growing dividends and Customers Providing financial 1 1% on 2016 security and wealth creation.
share price performance enhance shareholder value.
Read more on pages 16 to 80 Read more on pages 68 to 70 1,788m Remittances 2 4% on 2016 Capital 13.3bn Solvency II surplus 2 6% on 2016 202% Cover ratio 1pp on 2016 Employees Providing an environment Communities Supporting communities with equal opportunities, career potential where we operate, through investment in and rewards enabling us to attract and business and infrastructure, tax revenues The Group has a number of key retain highquality individuals to deliver and community support activities.
performance indicators internally to our strategy.
Read more on page 16 Read more on pages 74 to 77 Read more on pages 70 to 74 1 Growth rates on constant exchange rate basis.
2 Growth rates on an actual exchange rate basis.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 13
