American p69-71 22 03 2018 09:41 Page 70 R E G U L A T O R Y D I S C L O S U R E S ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE AIFMD DISCLOSURE UNAUDITED Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, leverage is any method which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be calculated on a gross and a commitment method in accordance with AIFMD.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
The Company is required to state its maximum and actual leverage levels, calculated as prescribed by the AIFMD, at 31st December 2017, which gives the following figures: Gross Commitment Leverage Exposure Method Method Maximum limit 200% 200% Actual 111% 111% 1 The above figures are theoretical and are calculated in accordance with the methodology prescribed by the AIFMD.
JPMF Remuneration JPMorgan Funds Limited the Management Company is the authorised manager of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc the Company and is part of the J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. group of companies.
In this section, the terms J. P. Morgan or Firm refer to that group, and each of the entities in that group globally, unless otherwise specified.
This section of the annual report has been prepared in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD, the European Commission Delegated Regulation supplementing the AIFMD, and the Guidelines on sound remuneration policies issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority under the AIFMD.
This section has also been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook FUND 3.3.
Remuneration Policy A summary of the Remuneration Policy currently applying to the Management Company the Remuneration Policy Statement can be found at https: am.
com gb en asset-management gim per legal .
This Remuneration Policy Statement includes details of how remuneration and benefits are calculated, including the financial and non-financial criteria used to evaluate performance, the responsibilities and composition of the Firms Compensation and Management Development Committee, and the measures adopted to avoid or manage conflicts of interest.
A copy of this policy can be requested free of charge from the Management Company.
The Remuneration Policy applies to all employees of the Management Company, including individuals whose professional activities may have a material impact on the risk profile of the Management Company or the Alternative Investment Funds it manages AIFMD Identified Staff.
The AIFMD Identified Staff include members of the Board of the Management Company the Board, senior management, the heads of relevant Control Functions, and holders of other key functions.
Individuals are notified of their identification and the implications of this status on at least an annual basis.
The Board reviews and adopts the Remuneration Policy on an annual basis, and oversees its implementation, including the classification of AIFMD Identified Staff.
As at 31st December 2017, the Board last reviewed and adopted the Remuneration Policy in June 2017 with no material changes and was satisfied with its implementation.
Quantitative Disclosures The table below provides an overview of the aggregate 2017 total remuneration paid to staff of the Management Company and the number of beneficiaries.
These figures include the remuneration of all staff of JP Morgan Asset Management UK Ltd the relevant employing entity and the number of beneficiaries, both apportioned to the Management Company on an AUM weighted basis.
