01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Committee reports The principal Board Committees are the Nomination & Governance, Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees.
These Committees form a key element of the Group governance framework, providing effective independent oversight of the Groups activities by the Non-executive Directors.
Each Committee Chair provides an update to the Board of each Committee meeting, supported by a short written summary of the Committee business considered.
Nomination & Governance 2017, have impacted the Boards gender Committee report diversity.
The Committee has therefore committed to focus particularly on Dear Shareholder strengthening gender diversity, alongside The Board changes in 2017 have again diversity of skills, in its succession planning demonstrated the effectiveness of our in 2018. preparations for Board level succession.
Full details of all Board changes during the The role of the Committee has grown since year can be found on page 83.
2016 when we took on responsibility for overseeing the governance arrangements The smooth transition of David Law as our in the Group.
This includes the governance new Audit Committee Chair, who also of our Material Subsidiaries, in order to joined this Committee in May, and the ensure that those boards operate appointment and induction of Tom Watjen effectively and that their independent has helped to refresh the Nonexecutive nonexecutive directors can constructively roles on the Board.
challenge and monitor performance in The move by Nic Nicandrou to become those businesses.
We have spent time as a Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Committee considering the composition Asia and the appointment of Mark and effectiveness of those boards, the FitzPatrick as Chief Financial Officer processes around their risk and audit demonstrates both the effectiveness of our committees, and the tenure and succession Paul Manduca succession planning preparations and the of their nonexecutives.
Chair of the Nomination & ability of the Committee to recruit high Governance Committee Part of my role as Chair is to oversee the calibre candidates with the appropriate governance arrangements for this skills and knowledge for our business.
The Committee considered its Having the right individuals in place in terms of reference in November 2017, and leadership roles is fundamental to the in the preparation of this report I have successful delivery of our strategy.
The Committee members considered the time commitment, number Board requires a diverse skill set which can Paul Manduca Chair of meetings and skills and experiences be deployed across our Committees and Howard Davies required for Committee members.
businesses for the benefit of the Group and David Law from May 2017 As the Committee Chair, I also have the its stakeholders.
Anthony Nightingale responsibility for ensuring the Committee Philip Remnant Careful ongoing review and planning runs effectively and makes the most of its Ann Godbehere until May 2017 ensures that our Board continues to attract meeting time.
I encourage open debate the high calibre individuals it requires and and contributions from all Committee Regular attendees that there are no gaps in leadership.
Group Chief Executive 2017, the Committee formalised its Group Human Resources Director As part of the Boards effectiveness review, approach in this area by creating a skills Group General Counsel and described in more detail on pages 93 and map to support succession planning, which Company Secretary 94, the Committee was found to be identifies sectorspecific and general operating effectively and given action operational competencies as well as Number of meetings in 2017: Four points around developing its skills map and geographic and business experience.
considering Committee membership, both The retirement of Ann Godbehere, in May of which are ongoing tasks.
2017, at the end of nine years of service as a Nonexecutive Director, and Penny James stepping down as an Executive Director and Group Chief Risk Officer in September www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 101 Committee reports continued How the Committee spent its time during 2017 Feb May Jun Nov Year end matters, re-election and tenure Review external positions, conflicts of interests and independence, time commitment, tenure and terms of appointment Review performance of Chairman and Nonexecutive Directors Review relevant disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts Recommend election of Directors by shareholders Succession planning, skills mapping and appointments Chairman Nonexecutive Directors Group Chief Executive Executive Directors GEC composition Governance Membership review of principal Board Committees Committee terms of reference Material Subsidiary governance Subsidiary board composition, nonexecutive succession planning and appointments Material Subsidiary committee attendance Terms of reference for Material Subsidiary boards, chairs and committees Material Subsidiary governance manual Material Subsidiary board, chair and director evaluations Key matters considered during the year Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Succession planning Throughout the year, the Committee kept succession plans for all Executive and Nonexecutive Board roles under review.
Succession plans are supported by the year end Board evaluation and individual performance evaluations.
The Committee takes account of the size, structure and composition of the Board and its Committees, including existing knowledge, experience and diversity.
In doing so, the Committee considers the Groups strategic needs and anticipates future needs, skills and experience.
The Committee is responsible for developing and periodically reviewing objectives established for the implementation of diversity on the Board and monitoring progress toward the achievements of those objectives.
A description of the Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy is included on page 97.
Following the departure of Ann Godbehere and Penny James in 2017, the Committee is focusing on gender diversity, alongside diversity of skills, in its succession planning in 2018.
The Committee works with the Group Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director to ensure that when a vacancy or a gap in the Boards skills is identified, a role specification is prepared, taking into account feedback from the Committee and the Groups Diversity and Inclusion Policy.
Once the specification is agreed, specialist talent agencies are typically engaged to create a shortlist of candidates for review by the Committee and other stakeholders.
Interviews with individuals then take place and feedback is provided to the Committee members.
In this manner, a preferred candidate is selected and the Committee then recommends the individual to the Board for appointment subject to regulatory approval where required.
Contemporaneously with this process, thorough due diligence checks are undertaken on the candidate and we liaise with the FCA and PRA as to the suitability of the individual from a regulatory perspective, as needed.
102 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Nonexecutive Directors During the year, the Committee finalised the terms of appointment of Mr Watjen as a Nonexecutive Director.
The work of the Committee was supported by Russell Reynolds as search consultant.
In 2017, the Committee debated and approved a skills map for use in Nonexecutive succession planning discussions.
The skills map identifies key skills and experiences, including sector, geographic and operational skills, which are desirable for the Board as a whole, taking account of the Groups strategic direction.
As part of its focus on searching for an additional Nonexecutive Director, in November 2017 The Miles Partnership was instructed to begin a market mapping exercise with particular focus on potential female candidates to ensure that the Boards gender diversity was addressed in a positive manner.
Executive Directors The Committee carried out its annual review of the succession plans in place for the Group Chief and senior executives Executive, other Executive Directors and Group Executive Committee roles.
The development and renewal of these plans was led by the Group HR Director, supported by Egon Zehnder in the case of the Group Chief Executive plan and by Talent Intelligence for the other Executive Director roles and GEC members.
In 2017, Talent Intelligence prepared longlists and shortlists with a focus on gender and ethnic diversity requirements.
The Committee has oversight of senior executive level succession planning and the talent pipeline.
The Committee discussed these plans closely with the Group Chief Executive to identify business requirements and plan for future succession needs and gave feedback on the planning process.
The Company continues to commit to developing a robust and diverse talent pipeline, increasing representation of women in senior positions.
During 2017: Mr FitzPatrick was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in July 2017, following completion of a comprehensive search: Following the departure of Penny James in September 2017, Prudential appointed Pat Casey as Interim Group Chief Risk Officer while the search for a permanent successor continued.
Following a recommendation from the Committee, the Board appointed James Turner as an Executive Director and as Group Chief Risk Officer with effect from 1 March 2018: and Mr Nicandrou took on the role of Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia, following Mr Wilkeys departure.
In each case, the Committee was well prepared and responsive, considering candidate profiles and skills and conducting interviews.
Use of search consultancies Neither Russell Reynolds nor The Miles Partnership have any additional connection with Prudential.
In addition to acting as search consultant for certain executive hires, Egon Zehnder also provides support for senior development assessments.
Talent Intelligence also provides additional succession planning support to the Group below GEC level.
Review of principal Committee The Committee regularly reviews the membership of all principal Committees and makes membership recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
In February 2017, the Committee made recommendations to the Board to appoint Lord Turner to the Audit Committee and to appoint Mr Law to the Risk Committee and as Audit Committee Chair, which changes became effective in May 2017.
The Committee recommended the appointment of Mr Watjen to the Remuneration Committee on his appointment as a Nonexecutive Director in July 2017.
In February 2018, the Committee also recommended the appointment of Ms Schroeder as a member of the Risk Committee, which was effective from 1 March 2018.
Full details of changes to the membership of the principal Committees are set out on page 83. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 103 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Election of Directors As part of its ongoing work on Board succession planning, the Committee considered the terms of appointment for the Chairman, Committee Chairs and Nonexecutive Directors taking into account time commitment and the general balance of skills, diversity, experience and knowledge on the Board, assessing length of service in their roles.
Particular attention has been paid to the recommendation to reelect Mr Nargolwala and Sir Howard Davies at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2018 due to their length of service.
Having reviewed the performance of the Nonexecutive Directors in office at the time, and having received feedback from the Group Chief Executive on the performance of the Executive Directors, the Committee concluded that each Director continued to perform effectively and was able to devote sufficient time to fulfil their duties, taking account of the number and nature of their external appointments.
The Committee recommended to the Board that all Directors should stand for election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Independence and conflicts of interest Independence criteria The Committee considered the independence of the Nonexecutive Directors against relevant requirements as outlined on page 98.
Conflicts of interest The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to consider, and authorise where necessary, any actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Prior to proposing Directors for reelection, the Committee considered the external appointments of all Directors and reviewed existing conflict authorisations, reaffirming or updating any terms or conditions attached to authorisations where required.
In addition, the Committee considered the external positions of those Directors appointed during the year, noted changes in the external positions of existing Directors and considered whether these gave rise to any conflicts.
The Board considers that the procedures set out above for dealing with conflicts of interest, operate effectively.
Governance Group subsidiaries During the year under review, the Committee carried out various duties related to the Material Subsidiaries including succession planning arrangements for nonexecutive directors, evaluating the performance of the Material Subsidiary boards, chairs and directors, reviewing Material Subsidiary governance arrangements, including principles for attendance at committee meetings, and the terms of reference for the Material Subsidiary boards and chairs.
Appointment of Tom Watjen The Committee undertook a thorough and international search for potential candidates, supported by Russell Reynolds who were engaged for this purpose.
The objective of the search was to enhance the Boards US expertise and insurance executive experience.
Mr Watjen was identified as a preferred candidate following interviews with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and Group Chief Executive.
The Committee reviewed Mr Watjens skills and experiences against the needs of the business, noting in particular his knowledge of the insurance sector, his many years in senior executive roles and his understanding of US regulatory matters.
His appointment was then recommended to the Board for consideration and subsequently approved in July 2017.
104 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Audit Committee report independence and objectivity, the level of remuneration, effectiveness, and tenure.
Dear Shareholder The Committee also approved non audit It has been a great pleasure to take over work that was considered appropriate and responsibility as Chair of the Committee in line with the Groups policy.
During the from Ann Godbehere who retired from the year, KPMG scored highly in our Board in May 2017.
I would like to thank effectiveness review which included her for the significant contribution she feedback from senior finance personnel made to the Committee during her nine across all our business units.
It remains the years of service.
Committees current view that, without In May 2017 we welcomed Lord Turner as exceptional circumstances, change to an additional Committee member.
Lord auditors should not occur prior to the Turners biography is included on page 87. adoption of the new accounting standards on insurance contracts IFRS 17.
A plan to A key part of the Committees role is to identify their successors to ensure a provide the Board with assurance as to the smooth transition has been developed.
integrity of the business through our activities in monitoring financial reporting During the year the Committee continued and the second and third lines of defence to receive regular briefings from the as part of our internal control environment.
Groupwide Internal Audit GwIA function.
Delivery of the internal audit plan The Committee continued to focus on the represents a key component of the David Law integrity of the Groups financial reporting Committees oversight of the Groups Chair of the Audit Committee and ensuring appropriate financial internal controls procedures.
GwIA accounting policies are adopted and undertook a programme of riskbased implemented.
We reviewed managements audits covering matters across the business annual process for setting assumptions units in addition to assurance work on which underpin the Groups IFRS insurance Committee members significant change programmes such as liabilities and European Embedded Value David Law Chair from May 2017 preparations for the implementation of the EEV results and requested additional Ann Godbehere until May 2017 General Data Protection Regulations information and clarification where Howard Davies GDPR and MiFID II.
Building on work undertaken in Philip Remnant the 2018 audit plan which focuses on prior years, in 2017 we further accelerated Alice Schroeder matters such as financial, business change, our year end process and carried out a Lord Turner from May 2017 regulatory and operational risks as well as substantive review of key judgements, consideration of controls to deliver such as UK mortality and expenses, Regular attendees appropriate customer outcomes.
The plan Chairman of the Board policyholder behaviour assumptions in was mapped to the key risks identified by Jackson and, for EEV reporting in Group Chief Executive the Group Risk Committee and is kept Chief Financial Officer particular, persistency in Asia, before the under review throughout the year as year end.
As in previous years, the Group Chief Risk Officer necessary to ensure the programme Director of Group Finance Committee reviewed the Groups Annual remains in line with business needs.
Report and Accounts and advised the Group Regulatory and Government Relations Director Board that they were considered to be fair, The Committee regularly reviews the balanced and understandable.
The Group General Counsel and performance of GwIA and monitors the Company Secretary Committee also reviewed the Groups adequacy of the resourcing available to the Solvency II reporting disclosures forming Director of Group Compliance function.
In addition, in 2017 an Director of Groupwide Internal part of our 2016 full year and 2017 half and independent External Quality Assessment full year reports.
Following a transfer of Audit EQA of GwIA was undertaken by Deloitte External Audit Partner duties from the Risk Committee during the in line with the Chartered Institute of year, the Committee is now responsible for Internal Auditors Standards the Number of meetings in 2017: Nine.
reviewing the Solvency and Financial Standards.
The EQA concluded that GwIA In addition, a joint meeting was Condition Report SFCR and the met the Standards and code of ethics, and held with the Risk Committee Regulatory Supervisory Report RSR, assisted both the Committee and the which is a private regulatory filing.
executive management in identifying and mitigating risk.
An important part of the Committees duties is to monitor the relationship with During the year I was involved in recruiting the Groups external and internal auditors.
a successor to the role of Director of GwIA.
The Committee reviewed the activities of After an extensive internal and external KPMG as external auditor and made a search, we appointed an individual with recommendation to the Board concerning extensive knowledge of the Group, having their continuing appointment subject to previously been the Chief Operating shareholder approval which took into Officer of Group Risk, and before that the account a number of factors including Group Compliance Director.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 105 Committee reports continued The Committee received updates against As part of my transition, as well as the the annual Compliance Plan the Plan.
In regular meetings with the Material 2017 the Plan focused on a number of Subsidiary audit committee chairs to areas to help strengthen the compliance facilitate escalation of important matters framework, which is intended to aid the and reporting of material issues to the Group in meeting regulatory obligations.
Committee, I attended one of each of the The Plan also included the management Material Subsidiary audit committee and review of Group Compliance top risks, meetings to gain a better understanding of including antimoney laundering and how they operate.
I found this helpful and antibribery and corruption.
will look to repeat this in the coming years.
We also refreshed the Groups Part of my role as Chair is to consider the whistleblowing protocols and spent time governance arrangements for the with the Group Resilience Director to gain Committee.
The Committee considers its comfort that he was appropriately terms of reference at least annually and supported.
The Committee sponsored a proposed changes to its terms of reference special review to ensure there was no in December 2017.
The only significant evidence of abuse of power in the change related to the review of Solvency II workplace.
disclosures which now rests with the Committee.
During 2017 the Committee reviewed our first published tax strategy and As Chair of the Committee, I have environmental, social and governance responsibility for ensuring the Committee ESG report, both released in May.
To ensure we do so Another key piece of work was our review and provide constructive challenge to of the disclosures about the merger of management, I encourage open debate M&G and Prudential UK & Europe into one and contributions from all Committee business and an additional meeting was members.
Committee members are held to discuss these.
Members of the encouraged to meet with management or Committee also received additional the internal and external audit team where updates on the impact of MiFID II, this assists them in their preparations.
I and reviewed the financial disclosures report to the full Board after each meeting relating to the partial sale of the UK on the main matters discussed.
An annual review of our effectiveness was The Committee looks to identify matters carried out as part of the Board evaluation, likely to impact the Group going forward.
described in more detail on page 94.
The In addition to its usual activities, in 2018 the Committee was found to be functioning Committee expects to consider further the effectively.
impact of IFRS 17, as well as monitoring regulatory changes and the impact of major projects such as the creation of M&G Prudential on the Groups internal controls functions.
The Committee also works closely with the Risk Committee to make sure both Committees are updated and aligned on matters of common interest.
Where responsibilities are perceived to overlap between the two Committees, I work with Sir Howard to agree the most appropriate Committee to consider the matter.
In December we held a joint informational session on cyber security, to which all Directors were invited.
106 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults How the Committee spent its time during 2017 1 1 Feb Mar May Jul Aug Nov Dec Financial reporting and external auditor Periodic financial reporting including: Key accounting judgements and disclosures Solvency II results and governance processes Associated audit reports Review of announcement of the merger of M&G and Prudential UK & Europe Developments in tax disclosures Audit planning, fees, independence, effectiveness and re appointment Internal control framework Internal control framework effectiveness Internal auditors Status updates and effectiveness Internal audit plan Compliance Status updates Compliance plan MiFID II updates Financial crime and whistleblowing Update on whistleblowing issues raised Financial crime prevention including antimoney laundering, prevention of tax evasion and antibribery and corruption programmes Governance and reporting Material Subsidiaries updates Internal framework effectiveness refresh Environmental, social and governance reporting Business unit audit committee effectiveness, status updates and terms of reference Committee terms of reference Note 1 Two meetings were held in each of March and August 2017. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 107 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Financial reporting and tax Overview One of the Committees key responsibilities is to monitor the integrity of the financial statements.
The Committee assessed whether appropriate accounting policies had been adopted throughout the accounting period and whether management had made appropriate estimates and judgements over the recognition, measurement and presentation of the financial results.
There were no new or altered accounting standards in 2017 that had a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
The Committee considered compliance with accounting standards and obligations under applicable laws, regulations and governance codes.
Particular areas on which the Committee focused during the year included the fair, balanced and understandable requirement under the UK Corporate Governance Code, providing advice to the Board in respect of this requirement and reviewing the update of these disclosures for revised reporting requirements.
In May 2017 the Group published externally, for the first time, a Group tax strategy document and a Group environmental, social and governance report.
Both documents were reviewed by the Committee, which was updated on the approach and progress as the documents were developed.
Key assumptions and judgements The Committee reviewed the key assumptions and judgements made in valuing the Groups investments, insurance liabilities and deferred acquisition costs under IFRS, together with reports on the operation of internal controls to derive these amounts.
It also reviewed the assumptions underpinning the Groups European Embedded Value EEV metrics.
The Committee considered information, including peer comparisons if relevant and available, on the following key assumptions: Persistency, mortality, morbidity and expense assumptions within the Asia life businesses: Economic and policyholder behaviour assumptions including mortality affecting the measurement of Jackson guaranteed liabilities and amortisation of deferred acquisition costs: and Mortality, expense and credit risk assumptions for the UK annuity business.
Mortality assumptions were a particular focus for the Committee following a detailed review of granular historic experience data by the UK business and the release of new industry mortality improvement tables.
Further information is contained in the consolidated financial statements on pages 267 to 269.
The Committee was satisfied that the assumptions adopted by management were appropriate.
The Committee also received information on the nature of goodwill and intangible asset values and considered what factors might give rise to an impairment of the Groups intangibles and whether those factors had arisen in the period.
The Committee was satisfied that there was no impairment of the Groups intangibles at 31 December 2017.
The Committee reviewed and challenged updates to the Groups independent price valuation policy for investments and endorsed the proposed enhancements to Group Finance oversight of this policy.
It also received information on the carrying value of investments in the Groups balance sheet including data on the approach used in that valuation for example, the level of asset valued on a mark to market basis.
The Committee satisfied itself that overall investments were valued appropriately.
The Committee regularly reviews the Groups provisions, including the level of provisioning for regulatory and litigation matters and provisions for certain open tax items including tax matters in litigation.
The Committee was satisfied that the level of provisioning adopted by management was appropriate.
108 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Other financial reporting matters The Committee considered various analyses from management regarding Group and subsidiary and tax reporting capital and liquidity prior to recommending to the Board that it could conclude that the financial statements should continue to be prepared on the goingconcern basis and the disclosures on the Groups longerterm viability were both reasonable and appropriate.
As part of its assessment of the description of performance within the Annual Report, the Committee considered judgemental aspects of the Groups reporting across the Groups IFRS and EEV metrics.
This assessment included a review to ensure that the allocation of items between operating and nonoperating profit was in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The Committee considered the impact of equity and interest rate movements on the IFRS results of the Groups US business and after discussion, the Committee was satisfied that the presentation and disclosure of such impacts was appropriate and consistent with prior periods.
Following the announcement of the merger of M&G and the UK life business, the Committee reevaluated the Groups segmental disclosure, resulting in a revision to reflect the revised business unit structure.
Prior to the announcement of the merger, the Committee also reviewed the basis of preparation of the costs and synergies disclosed.
This work was supported by external independent review of managements proposed disclosures.
The potential impact of proposed US tax reforms was considered in advance of their implementation in December 2017 and the impact of the final rule changes were discussed in detail post year end.
The Committee reviewed and approved the Groups tax strategy which was subsequently published in May 2017 and was also updated on the 2016 country by country tax disclosures required to be filed with HM Revenue & Customs by the end of 2017.
The Committee reviewed the parent company profit and loss account and balance sheet, which included recognition of a pension surplus asset.
In addition to these reporting matters, the Committee also received and considered regular updates from management on the status and implications for the Group of financial reporting developments, including new accounting standards due to be implemented over the period 20182021.
In particular it received an overview of the requirements of IFRS 17 on insurance contracts, following publication of the final standard in the first half of 2017. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 109 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter External audit Review of effectiveness, non-audit services and auditor reappointment External audit effectiveness The Groups external auditor is KPMG LLP KPMG and oversight of the relationship with them is one of the Committees key responsibilities.
This included challenging and querying KPMGs approach to risk and other issues regularly throughout the year.
The Committee approved KPMGs terms of engagement for the statutory audit, and approved fees for both audit and nonaudit services in accordance with the Groups policy.
To assess the effectiveness of the auditor, the Committee reviewed the audit approach and strategy, and received an internal report on their performance.
The separate internal evaluation of the auditor was conducted using a questionnaire which was circulated to the Committee, the Chief Financial Officer and the Groups senior financial leadership for completion.
The feedback provided was reviewed and compiled into a report for the Committee which covered areas such as the knowledge and expertise of the partners and team members, their understanding of the Group, the resourcing applied to the audit and continuity of the team, liaison with Groupwide Internal Audit and approach to resolution of issues, as well as factors such as their coordination across the Groups multiple jurisdictions and quality of their written and oral communication.
The degree of challenge and robustness of approach to the audit were key components of the evaluation.
The Committee Chairman invited other Group stakeholders to provide their views on the performance of the auditor, and KPMG were given the opportunity to respond to the findings in the report.
KPMG also provided commentary on the findings of the FRCs Annual Audit Quality Review of KPMG and the firmwide actions being taken to address observations made.
On completion of the activities outlined above, the Committee concluded that the audit had been effective and the challenge appropriately robust across all parts of the Group.
Auditor independence The Committee has responsibility for monitoring auditor independence and objectivity and is and objectivity supported in doing so by the Groups Auditor Independence Policy the Policy.
The Policy is updated annually and approved by the Committee.
It sets out the circumstances in which the external auditor may be permitted to undertake nonaudit services and is based on four key principles which specify that the auditor should not: Audit its own firms work: Make management decisions for the Group: Have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group: or Be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
The Policy has two permissible service types: those that require specific approval by the Committee on an engagement basis and those that are preapproved by the Committee with an annual monetary limit.
In accordance with the Policy, the Committee approved these permissible services, classified as either audit or nonaudit services, and monitored the usage of the annual limits on a quarterly basis.
All nonaudit services undertaken by KPMG were agreed prior to the commencement of work and were confirmed as permissible for the external auditor to undertake under the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB.
In 2016, the Committee considered and approved revisions to the Policy with effect from 1 January 2017, to reflect final rules and guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council, in connection with the implementation of broader European Union EU reforms to the audit market.
This ensured that the schedule of prohibited nonaudit services was in line with EU reforms referenced above.
In 2017 the Committee reconsidered the Policy and concluded that it remained appropriate.
In keeping with professional ethical standards, KPMG also confirmed their independence to the Committee and set out the supporting evidence for their conclusion in a report that was considered by the Committee prior to publication of the financial results.
110 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Fees paid to the auditor The fees paid to KPMG for the year ended 31 December 2017 amounted to 17.3 million 2016: 16.2 million of which 2.6 million 2016: 2.8 million was payable in respect of nonaudit services.
Nonaudit services accounted for 15 per cent of total fees payable 2016: 17 per cent.
A breakdown of the fees paid to KPMG can be found in Note B2.4 to the financial statements on page 194.
Of the 2.6 million of nonaudit services, the principal types of nonaudit engagements approved for 2017 were other assurance services of 1.5 million of which 0.8 million related to Solvency II reporting and disclosures and other nonaudit services of 0.7 million.
In accordance with the Policy, all nonaudit services were preapproved by the Committee.
It was considered appropriate for KPMG to undertake work relating to the Groups Solvency II reporting and disclosure requirements because the terms of the engagement were in compliance with the Policy and KPMGs knowledge of the Groups processes facilitated the efficient execution of the work.
Reappointment Based on the outcome of the effectiveness evaluation and all other considerations, the Committee concluded that there was nothing in the performance of the auditor which would require a change.
The Committee therefore recommended that KPMG be reappointed as the auditor.
A resolution to this effect will be proposed to shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Audit tender The Committee acknowledges the provisions contained in the UK Code in respect of audit tendering, along with European rules on mandatory audit rotation and audit tendering.
In conformance with these requirements, the Company will be required to change audit firm no later than for the 2023 financial year end.
The external audit was last put out to competitive retender in 1999 when the present auditor, KPMG, was appointed.
Since 2005, the Committee has annually considered the need to retender the external audit service.
The Committee recognises that the industry is in a period of unprecedented change with the IASB issuing its new insurance accounting standard in 2017, for implementation in 2021.
The Committee currently believes any change of auditor should be scheduled to limit operational disruption during such a period of change and, as a consequence, is not currently planning to change auditors before the adoption of IFRS 17.
This remains subject to the Committees normal annual review of auditor performance and recommendation to shareholders as described above.
The Committee considered its strategy on audit tendering in November 2017, concluding that the existing timeline for appointing a new auditor by the 2022 year end, did not need to be amended.
In conducting this review, the Committee concluded that it would be appropriate to commence a competitive tender for the 2022 audit in 2019.
The Company has complied throughout the 2017 financial year with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 issued by the Competition and Markets Authority.
A plan to identify successor firms to ensure that there is sufficient time for an orderly transition and to safeguard independence was considered and agreed by the Committee.
In line with the FRC Ethical Standard, the rules and regulations of the SEC and the standards of the PCAOB, a new lead audit partner, Philip Smart, has been appointed in respect of the 2017 financial year.
Mr Smart is expected to be in place until the completion of the 2021 reporting cycle.
Prior to taking up this role, Mr Smart shadowed the outgoing lead audit partner.
During the 2016 year end audit, he met with members of the Committee and management team, including management teams of our business units, and attended Committee meetings and met with members of the Committee.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 111 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Third line oversight Internal audit Regular reporting The quality of the internal control systems is assessed by the Groups Internal Audit function using independent audit procedures.
Each of the Groups business units has an Internal Audit team, the heads of which report to the Director of GwIA.
The Committee received regular updates from GwIA on audits conducted and managements progress in addressing audit findings within agreed timelines.
Any delays in implementing remediation action are escalated to the Committee and given particular scrutiny.
The independent assurance provided by GwIA formed a key part of the Committees deliberations on the Groups overall control environment.
The Director of GwIA reports functionally to the Chairman of the Committee and for management purposes to the Group Chief Executive, and also has direct access to the Chairman of the Board.
In addition to formal Committee meetings, the Committee meets with the Director of GwIA in private to discuss matters relating to, for example, the effectiveness of the internal audit function, significant audit findings and the risk and control culture of the organisation.
Annual plan and focus for 2018 The Committee approved the half year update of the 2017 plan.
It also considered and approved the Internal Audit Plan, resource and budget for 2018.
At the half year, the Committee considered recommendations to refresh the Internal Audit Plan in response to changes in the business unit operating environments and an update to the Groups top risks.
The 2018 Internal Audit Plan was formulated based on a bottomup risk assessment of audit needs mapped against various metrics combined with topdown challenge.
The plan was then mapped against a series of risk and control parameters, including the top risks identified by the Risk Committee, to verify that it is appropriately balanced between financial, business change, regulatory and operational risk drivers and provides appropriate coverage of key risk areas and audit themes within a riskbased cycle of coverage.
Key areas of focus for 2018 include strategic change initiatives, customer outcomes, cyber security and digitalisation.
Internal audit effectiveness The Committee is responsible for approval of the GwIA charter, audit plan, resources, and for monitoring the effectiveness of the function.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of GwIA through a combination of EQA reviews, required every five years, and an annual internal effectiveness review, performed by the GwIA Quality Assurance Director.
In 2017, Deloitte performed an EQA of GwIA, which assessed that GwIA generally conforms with the Institute of Internal Audit IIA Standards and Code of Ethics the highest rating under the IIAs framework, and displays an overall level of adherence to the principles set out in the UK Chartered IIA Code.
The assessment also considered GwIAs purpose, position, processes and reporting in the context of Groups wider systems of governance.
In addition, to ensure GwIA skill sets and resourcing levels align to the approved audit plan, a skills and resource gap analysis was undertaken to highlight any resource shortfall or required change in available skill sets to support the delivery of the plan.
The analysis concluded that resources were sufficient to execute the plan.
Having considered the findings of the EQA, and the 2017 internal effectiveness review, the Committee concluded that GwIA had continued to operate in compliance with the requirements of GwIA policies, procedures and practice standards in all material respects and had remained aligned to mandated objectives during 2017.
112 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Business unit audit committees The Committee is supported by the work carried out by the audit committees at the level of individual business units, in particular those established by our Material Subsidiaries, which provide oversight of the respective business units.
The Committee annually reviews the effectiveness of these committees in meeting their defined terms of reference.
Membership of the committees for all Material Subsidiaries comprises solely of independent nonexecutive directors of those subsidiaries.
Minutes of business unit audit committees were provided to the Committee and their meetings were attended by the external auditor, as well as senior management from the business unit including the Business Unit Chief Executive, heads of Finance, Risk, Compliance and GwIA and from Group Head Office.
In addition, the Committee Chair meets in person or telephonically with the chairs of each of the Material Subsidiary audit committees, usually on a quarterly basis.
The Chair has also attended one of each of the Material Subsidiary audit committee meetings since his appointment to enhance his understanding of how they operate.
An assessment of the business unit audit committees was completed and the outcomes reported to the Committee and to the business unit audit committees in February 2018.
The assessment was supported by local teams from GwIA and considered whether each of the committees fulfilled the responsibilities documented in their terms of reference.
The evaluation also considered attendance rates by audit committee members and evidence of the audit committees coverage of key business unit issues, as well as the appropriate escalation of concerns to the Committee.
The evaluation concluded that the audit committees operated in accordance with their terms of reference.
Business unit model terms The Committee approved the Groups standard terms of reference for the Material Subsidiary and of reference other business unit audit committees, which were updated to reflect changes in the Committees own responsibilities to align them with best practice.
These were adopted by the business unit audit committees, with minor variations to address local regulations or the particular requirements of the business where necessary.
The Committee also reviewed the membership of the Material Subsidiary audit committees.
Second line oversight Compliance, financial crime prevention, whistleblowing Regular reporting from the Regular updates were provided to the Committee by the Group Regulatory and Government Affairs Compliance function Director and the Group Compliance Director.
The reports kept the Committee apprised of key compliance activities, issues and controls, including progress against the 2017 Compliance Plan, the outcome of compliance monitoring activities across the Group and the effectiveness of business units compliance activities.
Compliance Plan and focus The Committee considered and approved the 2018 Group Compliance Plan.
The strategic focus of for 2018 the Plan in 2018 will be on enhancing the assurance framework, building on work undertaken in 2017.
Group Compliance will also continue to drive forward capabilities within the team and wider compliance community, carrying out activities to maintain oversight of the top risks identified.
Financial crime prevention The Committee received the Money Laundering Reporting Officers report which assessed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups systems and controls in relation to managing financial crime risks.
As part of its responsibility for the oversight of financial crime prevention, the Committee received updates on Antibribery and Corruption and Antimoney Laundering, Sanctions and Fraud procedures.
The Risk Committee was updated on risk assessments of antibribery and corruption and fraud prevention, during the year, which informed the update provided to the Committee in early 2018. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 113 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Whistleblowing In 2016 Prudential launched a Groupwide whistleblowing programme Speak Out.
The programme captures and comprehensively records matters raised through the Groups confidential reporting process.
Throughout the year the Committee received regular updates on matters raised through the programme and on actions taken to address them.
The Committee also reviewed the arrangements for the monitoring and reporting of whistleblowing activities to ensure they continue to comply with regulatory requirements and governance best practice.
The procedures were refreshed during the year and the Chair communicated the enhanced protocols to the chairs of each of the Material Subsidiary audit committees.
The Committee and the Chair also spent time privately with the Group Resilience Director to ensure cases were being appropriately followed up.
The role of the whistleblowing champion, for the purpose of the Senior Insurance Managers Regime, is carried out by the chair of the audit committee of Prudential Assurance Company PAC, who is an independent nonexecutive director of PAC and is supported by the PAC audit committee.
The terms of reference for each Material Subsidiary audit committee provides for them to ensure Speak Out arrangements are in place for those business units.
The Committee was also updated on arrangements for promoting awareness of the Speak Out policy, including computer based training tailored for each business unit, and the distribution of communications across the Group.
At Group level, the Chair of the Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of whistleblowing activities across the whole of the Group.
Internal control Internal control and risk The Committee is responsible for reporting and making recommendations to the Board on the management systems effectiveness of Groupwide internal control and risk management systems.
The Committee considered the outcome of the annual review of the systems of internal control and risk management.
The report considered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, risk management systems and the adequacy of the resources, qualifications and experience of staff of the Groups accounting, internal audit and financial reporting functions.
The review identified a number of areas for improvement and the necessary actions have been or are being taken.
Having considered the review, the Committee made recommendations to the Board regarding the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, noting that it had been in place throughout the period and confirming that the systems remain effective.
The Boards statement regarding effectiveness of these systems can be found on page 100.
Governance Group Governance Framework The Group Governance Manual sets out the policies and procedures by which the Group operates within its framework of internal governance, taking into account relevant statutory and regulatory matters.
Used as a platform for mandating specific ways of working across the Group, each business unit attests annually to compliance with: Mandatory requirements set out in Groupwide policies, including matters which must be reported to the Group functions: and Matters requiring prior approval from those parties with delegated authority.
The Committee reviewed the results of the Group Governance Manual annual content review and the results of the year end certification of compliance with Group Governance Manual requirements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Committee effectiveness A review of the Committees activities was conducted against applicable regulation and codes of conduct.
The results of this assessment were provided to the Committee alongside the outcome of the part of the annual Board evaluation relating to the Committee.
114 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Risk Committee report In respect of our principal risks, we continued to focus on those arising from Dear Shareholder the products we offer our customers, those As Chairman of the Risk Committee, I am inherent in our investment portfolios and pleased to report on the Committees the risks that arise from the operation of activities and focus during 2017. our businesses.
We regularly reviewed The Committee assists the Board in the strength of our capital and liquidity providing leadership, direction and positions, and the significant ongoing oversight of the Groups overall risk changes to the regulatory framework appetite and limits, risk strategy, and risk and environment.
We also oversee and advise the closely monitored risks arising from the Board on current and future risk exposures macroeconomic environment and the of the Group, including those which have pace of regulatory developments across the potential to impact on the delivery of the globe.
The Committee The Committee reviewed in depth the risks reviews the Group Risk Framework and arising from our business.
This included a recommends changes to it for approval by further review into the Jackson hedging the Board, to ensure that it remains programme and providing oversight of effective in identifying and managing the Howard Davies implementation of recommended actions.
Chair of the Risk Committee Reviews were also performed on asset We work closely with the Audit Committee liability management for our UK withprofit to ensure both Committees are updated business, our China joint ventures and and aligned on matters of common interest.
other aspects relating to our Asia business.
Where responsibilities are perceived to Committee members During the year we continued to oversee overlap between the two Committees, Howard Davies Chair the work required as a result of the Groups I work with Mr Law to agree the most Ann Godbehere until May 2017 continuing designation as a Global appropriate Committee to consider the David Law from May 2017 Systemically Important Insurer GSII, matter.
During the year we transferred Kai Nargolwala which included the approval of the 2017 responsibility for the review of Solvency II Alice Schroeder from March 2018 Systemic Risk Management Plan, Liquidity disclosures to the Audit Committee.
Lord Turner Risk Management Plan and Recovery Plan.
The Committee received regular reports Regular attendees The Committee reviewed the methodology from the Group Chief Risk Officer CRO, Chairman of the Board and annual calibration of the Solvency II who is advised by the Group Executive Risk Group Chief Executive internal model, and we also oversaw the Committee GERC.
I provided feedback Group Chief Risk Officer successful submission of the Groups Major on the performance of the CRO to the Chief Financial Officer Model Change application in November Group Chief Executive Officer as part of Group Regulatory and Government 2017 in respect of the model.
the annual evaluation of the Board and its Relations Director members.
The Committee also received Cyber security remains an area of focus Group General Counsel and regular reports from the Groupwide which saw attention from the Committee Company Secretary Internal Audit and Compliance functions in 2017.
During the year we reviewed Director of Groupwide and updates from other areas of the progress achieved on the implementation Internal Audit business as needed.
of our Cyber Defence Plan.
The Committee considered the Groupwide approach, and Number of meetings in 2017: Six.
During 2017, we reviewed the Groups risk changes in governance and processes In addition, a joint meeting was policies and the aggregate limits required, for compliance with the EUs held with the Audit Committee accompanying the Group risk appetite General Data Protection Regulations which statements.
In addition, the Groups risk are due to come into force in May 2018. appetite limits were reviewed and updated The Group also prepared its first where necessary to reflect changes in the environmental, social and governance Groups risk profile and the evolving report in 2017 with the Committee regulatory and macroeconomic reviewing the risk elements included environments.
We also reviewed the in that report.
principal risks facing the Group and received regular updates on these through the course of the year.
We receive regular reports from the Chief Risk Officers of our major subsidiaries.
A fuller explanation of key risks facing the Group and the way in which the Group manages these is set out in the Report on the risks facing our business on pages 48 to 63. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 115 Committee reports continued During 2017 the Committee considered As Chair of the Committee, I have the results of a Groupwide risk culture responsibility for ensuring the Committee assessment which built on the previous operates effectively.
To ensure we do so work of the Committee in this area.
The and provide constructive challenge to assessment was intended to compare management, I encourage open debate the Groups risk culture against best and contributions from all Committee practice behaviours, identify any areas members.
An annual review of our which need improvement and provide effectiveness was carried out as part of the highlevel industry benchmarking and Board evaluation, described in more detail peer comparison.
The Committee was found to be functioning effectively.
In August we announced the merger of two of our business units to form M&G Prudential.
The Committee considered the approach for managing risks associated with the merger, and will monitor and assess these risks through 2018.
The Committee will remain focused on monitoring the Groups principal risks, including those posed by regulatory developments and macroeconomic conditions, in the context of the Groups operations as a whole and the environment in which we operate.
I meet the Material Subsidiary risk committee chairs to facilitate escalation of important matters and reporting of material issues to the Committee.
Since the year end, we welcomed Alice Schroeder as a member of the Committee with effect from 1 March 2018.
Her biography is set out on page 87.
Part of my role as Chair is to consider the governance arrangements for the Committee.
The Committee considers its terms of reference at least annually and in October 2017 considered proposed changes to its terms of reference.
We formalised the Committees role in considering how changes in the financial environment impact the Groups risk profile.
We also refreshed our terms of reference to reflect the Committees role in providing advice to the Remuneration Committee on risk management considerations to be applied in respect of executive remuneration.
116 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults How the Committee spent its time during 2017 1 Feb May Jul Oct Dec Markets and Group risk updates Group risk update Risk management Group top risk identification Top risk discussions Business unit specific risk matters Risk assessment of Business Plan Risk function effectiveness Risk culture survey Risk oversight of remuneration Regulatory matters Regulatory matters Risk framework Solvency II internal model development Solvency II Major Model Change Group risk appetite review Risk limit updates Risk policy framework refresh Yearend Ecap results Group operation risk appetite statement Responsible investing framework Governance and reporting Material Subsidiaries updates Yearend risk disclosures Policy compliance Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Governance, Risk and Compliance report Global Systemically Important Insurer Liquidity Risk Management Plan, Systemic Risk Management Plan and Recovery Plan Pillar 3 reporting Solvency II reporting and governance processes Environmental, social and governance ESG reporting Committee terms of reference Note 1 Two meetings were held in February 2017. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 117 Committee reports continued Key matters considered during the year Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Business Plan As part of the Committees role in overseeing and advising the Board on future risk exposures and strategic risks, the Committee reviewed Group Risks assessment of the Groups Business Plan, which covered a range of both financial and nonfinancial considerations.
As part of the Group Risks review of the annual Group Business Plan, Group Approved Limits were reviewed, updated and approved by the Committee.
Risk appetite The Risk Committee is responsible for recommending the Groups overall risk appetite and tolerance to the Board.
The Committee approved the Group Risk Appetite Statement, which sets aggregate risk limits in respect of capital requirements, earnings volatility and liquidity as well as maintaining the existing tolerance levels associated with each of these limits.
Risk management Annually, business units must assess and certify their compliance with the Group Risk Framework and risk policies as part of the annual Group Governance Manual certification.
The annual certification process for risk policies is facilitated by Group Risk and subject to oversight by the Risk Committee.
In 2017, the Group Risk Framework and risk policies were subject to their annual review, with changes being approved by the Risk Committee.
In October 2017, the Committee considered the results of a Groupwide survey on Risk Culture which provided highlevel industry and peer benchmarking.
The Risk Committee considered the results of a number of deep dive reviews undertaken during 2017.
These focused on risks embedded within the existing portfolio of products in our US, Asia and UK businesses.
The Cyber Strategy and Cyber Defence Plan articulates the strategic outcomes and key deliverables relating to our cyber resilience.
The Group Cyber Risk Strategy was reviewed by the Risk Committee in mid2017.
The Committee also reviewed the Cyber Defence Plan and were provided further detail around the implementation of the Cyber Strategy at the end of 2017.
The Committee considered the Groupwide approach for compliance with GDPR regulations and received updates through the year on progress on implementation activity.
The Committee also agreed the characteristics of an effective risk function and conducted its second annual review of risk effectiveness in May.
Group top risks The Committee evaluated the Groups top risks, considering recommendations for promoting additional risks, expanding the scope of existing risks, and removing those risks no longer requiring particular focus from the Committee.
The Committee received regular reporting on the top risks and mitigating actions over the course of the year.
The Group Chief Risk Officers reports also provided the Committee with regulatory updates, particularly regarding Solvency II and the Groups Internal Model: the implications of the developing global capital standards: and developments and the deliverables required as a result of the Groups designation as a Global Systemically Important Insurer see further, opposite.
Solvency II and Pillar 3 The Committee considered the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment report based on the outcomes reporting of the Groups Business Plan and the FY16 risk and solvency positions prior to its approval by the Board.
The report was also considered in light of the results of the Groups regular stress testing.
The Committee reviewed the methodology and annual calibration of the Solvency II internal model.
The 2017 Major Model Change application was closely overseen by the Committee throughout the year and we approved the model changes as part of the submission of the application to the regulator.
Solvency II results and associated governance processes were considered in a separate meeting held jointly with the Audit Committee.
118 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Key matters considered during the year continued Matter considered How the Committee addressed the matter Global Systemically The Financial Stability Board FSB announced on 21 November 2016 that the Group continues to be Important Insurer designated as a Global Systemically Important Insurer.
In 2017, the Group was required to consider and approve updated deliverables associated with the designation.
These included the Systemic Risk Management Plan, Recovery Plan and Liquidity Risk Management Plan.
Reverse Stress Testing Stress and scenario testing is a key risk measurement and management tool for the Group.
The Reverse Stress Test exercise was carried out to confirm the Groups position as being significantly resilient to certain business failure scenarios.
The report related to the Groups year end 2017 position and was submitted to the PRA.
Remuneration The role of the Committee with respect to the provision of advice to the Remuneration Committee on risk management considerations in respect of remuneration was formalised during the year.
The Committee considered a plan enabling it to meet its Remuneration responsibilities and received updates on Remunerationrelated matters.
Compliance reporting The Committee received regular reporting on key compliance risks and mitigation activity, including assessments and reporting on antibribery and corruption customer commitments.
The Committee also reviewed and approved a number of regulatory compliance riskrelated policies.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 119
