Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include fixed asset investments at fair value, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts the SORP issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014 and updated in January 2017.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The disclosures on going concern on page 31 form part of these financial statements.
The policies applied in these financial statements are consistent with those applied in the preceding year.
b Valuation of investments The Company has chosen to adopt Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 in respect of financial instruments.
The Companys business is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the form of income and capital growth.
The portfolio of financial assets is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented investment strategy and information is provided internally on that basis to the Companys Board of Directors.
Accordingly, upon initial recognition the investments are designated by the Company as held at fair value through profit or loss.
They are included initially at fair value which is taken to be their cost, excluding expenses incidental to purchases which are written off to capital at the time of acquisition.
Subsequently the investments are valued at fair value, which are quoted bid prices for investments traded in active markets.
For investments which are not traded in active markets, unlisted and restricted investments, the Board takes into account the latest traded prices, other observable market data and asset values based on the latest management accounts.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
c Accounting for reserves Gains and losses on sales of investments including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, realised exchange gains and losses on cash and cash equivalents, realised gains and losses on foreign currency contracts, any performance fee realised, management fee and finance costs allocated to capital and any other capital charges, are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and dealt with in capital reserves within Gains and losses on sales of investments.
Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end including the related foreign exchange gains and losses, unrealised gains and losses on forward foreign currency contracts and any performance fee provision, are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and dealt with in capital reserves within Investment holding gains and losses.
d Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are included in revenue on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of the Board, the dividend is capital in nature, in which case it is included in capital.
Overseas dividends are included gross of any withholding tax.
Special dividends are looked at individually to ascertain the reason behind the payment.
This will determine whether they are treated as income or capital.
Where the Company has elected to receive scrip dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in revenue.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital.
Interest receivable from debt securities together with any premiums or discounts on purchase are allocated to revenue on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective interest rate of those securities.
Deposit interest receivable is taken to revenue on an accruals basis.
