Glossary AER Cash surrender value Deferred annuities Actual Exchange Rates are actual historical The amount of cash available to a policy Annuities or pensions due to be paid from a exchange rates for the specific accounting holder on the surrender of or withdrawal future date or when the policyholder period, being the average rates over the from a life insurance policy or annuity reaches a specified age.
period for the income statement and the contract.
Discretionary participation features closing rates for the balance sheet at the CER or DPF balance sheet date.
Constant Exchange Rate Prudential plc A contractual right to receive, as a Annual premium equivalent or APE reports its results at both actual exchange supplement to guaranteed benefits, A measure of new business activity that is rates AER to reflect actual results and also additional benefits: calculated as the sum of annualised regular constant exchange rates CER so as to That are likely to be a significant portion premiums from new business plus eliminate the impact from exchange of the total contractual benefits: 10 per cent of single premiums on new translation.
CER results are calculated by business written during the period.
translating prior year results using current Whose amount or timing is period foreign currency exchange rates ie contractually at the discretion of the Asset backed security current period average rates for the income issuer: and A security whose value and income statements and current period closing rate That are contractually based on asset, payments are derived from and for the balance sheet.
fund, company or other entity collateralised or backed by a specified performance.
The pool of Closed-book life insurance business assets is typically a group of small and A closed book is essentially a group of Dividend cover illiquid assets that are unable to be sold insurance policies that are no longer sold, Dividend cover is calculated as operating individually.
but are still featured on the books of a life profit after tax on an IFRS basis, divided by insurer as a premiumpaying policy.
The the current year interim dividend plus the Available for sale AFS insurance company has closed the books proposed final dividend.
Securities that have been acquired neither on new sales of these products which will for shortterm sale nor to be held to remain in runoff until the policies expire Endowment product maturity.
AFS securities are measured at and all claims are settled.
An ordinary individual life insurance fair value on the statement of financial product that provides the insured party position with unrealised gains and losses Core structural borrowings with various guaranteed benefits if it being booked in Other Comprehensive Borrowings which Prudential considers to survives specific maturity dates or periods Income instead of the income statement.
form part of its core capital structure and stated in the policy.
Upon the death of the exclude operational borrowings.
insured party within the coverage period, a Back book of business designated beneficiary receives the face The insurance policies sold in past periods Credit risk value of the policy.
that are still inforce and hence are still The risk of loss if another party fails to meet recorded on the insurers balance sheet.
its obligations, or fails to do so in a timely European Embedded Value or EEV fashion.
Financial results that are prepared on a Bonuses supplementary basis to the Groups Bonuses refer to the nonguaranteed Currency risk consolidated IFRS results and which are benefit added to participating life insurance The risk that asset or liability values, cash prepared in accordance with a set of policies and are the way in which flows, income or expenses will be affected Principles issued by the Chief Financial policyholders receive their share of the by changes in exchange rates.
Also Officers Forum of European Insurance profits of the policies.
There are normally referred to as foreign exchange risk.
Companies in May 2004 and expanded by two types of bonus: Deferred acquisition costs or DAC the Additional Guidance of EEV Regular bonus expected to be added Acquisition costs are expenses of an Disclosures published in October 2005. every year during the term of the policy.
insurer which are incurred in connection The principles are designed to capture the It is not guaranteed that a regular bonus with the acquisition of new insurance value of the new business sold in the period will be added each year, but once it is contracts or the renewal of existing and of the business in force.
added, it cannot be reversed, also insurance policies.
They include known as annual or reversionary bonus: Fixed annuities commissions and other variable sales and Fixed annuity contracts written in the US inducements and the direct costs of issuing which allow for taxdeferred accumulation the policy, such as underwriting and other Final bonus an additional bonus of funds, are used for asset accumulation in policy issue expenses.
Typically, under expected to be paid when policyholders retirement planning and for providing IFRS, an element of acquisition costs are take money from the policies.
If income in retirement and offer flexible deferred ie not expensed in the year investment return has been low over payout options.
The contract holder pays incurred, and instead amortised in the the lifetime of the policy, a final bonus the insurer a premium, which is credited to income statement in line with the may not be paid.
Final bonuses may the contract holders account.
Periodically, emergence of surpluses on the related vary and are not guaranteed.
interest is credited to the contract holders contracts.
account and administrative charges are deducted, as appropriate.
398 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Fixed indexed annuities Guaranteed minimum death Internal rate of return IRR These are similar to fixed annuities in that benefit GMDB US The IRR is equivalent to the discount rate the contract holder pays the insurer a The basic death benefit offered under at which the present EEV value of the premium, which is credited to the contract variable annuity contracts, which specifies posttax cash flows expected to be earned holders account and, periodically, interest that if the owner dies before annuity over the life time of the business written in is credited to the contract holders account income payments begin, the beneficiary shareholderbacked life funds is equal to and administrative charges are deducted, will receive a payment equal to the greater the total invested capital to support the as appropriate.
An annual minimum of the contract value or purchase payments writing of the business.
The capital interest rate may be guaranteed, although less withdrawals.
included in the calculation of the IRR is actual interest credited may be higher and equal to the amount required to pay Guaranteed minimum income is linked to an equity index over its indexed acquisition costs and set up reserves less benefit GMIB US option period.
premiums received, plus encumbered A guarantee that ensures, under certain capital.
The impact of the time value of Funds under management conditions, that the owner may annuitise options and guarantees is included These comprise funds of the Group held the variable annuity contract based on the in the calculation.
in the statement of financial position and greater of a the actual account value or b external funds that are managed by a payout base equal to premiums credited Internal vesting Prudential asset management operations.
with some interest rate, or the maximum Internal vestings are proceeds from a anniversary value of the account prior to Prudential policy which the policyholder Group free surplus annuitisation.
has decided to reinvest in a Prudential Group free surplus at the end of the period annuity product.
comprises free surplus for the insurance Guaranteed minimum withdrawal businesses, representing the excess of benefit GMWB US International Financial Reporting the net worth over the required capital A guarantee in a variable annuity that Standards IFRS included in the EEV results, and IFRS promises that the owner may make annual Accounting standards that all publicly listed net assets for the asset management withdrawals of a defined amount for the life groups in the European Union are required businesses excluding goodwill.
The of the owner or until the total guaranteed to apply in preparing consolidated financial free surplus generated during the period amount is recovered, regardless of market statements.
comprises the movement in this balance performance or the actual account balance.
Investment grade excluding foreign exchange, capital, and Health and protection Investments rated BBB or above for S&P, other reserve movements.
Specifically, These comprise health and personal Baa3 or above for Moodys.
Generally they it includes amounts maturing from the accident insurance products, which are bonds that are judged by the rating inforce operations during the period provide morbidity or sickness benefits and agency as likely enough to meet payment less the investment in new business, include health, disability, critical illness and obligations that banks are allowed to invest the effect of market movements and accident coverage.
Health and protection in them.
products are sold both as standalone Investment-linked products Guaranteed annuities policies and as riders that can be attached or contracts Policies that pay out a fixed amount of to life insurance products.
Health and Insurance products where the surrender benefit for a defined period.
protection riders are presented together value of the policy is linked to the value of with ordinary individual life insurance Guaranteed investment contract underlying investments such as collective products for purposes of disclosure of GIC US investment schemes, internal investment financial information.
An investment contract between an pools or other property or fluctuations in insurance company and an institutional Immediate annuity the value of underlying investment or investor, which provides a stated rate of An annuity in which payments to the indices.
Investment risk associated with return on deposits over a specified period annuitant or beneficiary start at once the product is usually borne by the of time.
They typically provide for partial or upon establishment of the annuity plan or policyholder.
Insurance coverage, total withdrawals at book value if needed scheme.
Such annuities are almost always investment and administration services for certain liquidity needs of the plan.
purchased with a single lump sum are provided for which the charges are payment.
deducted from the investment fund assets.
Guaranteed minimum accumulation Benefits payable will depend on the price benefit GMAB US In-force of the units prevailing at the time of A guarantee that ensures that the contract An insurance policy or contract reflected surrender, death or the maturity of the value of a variable annuity contract will be on records that has not expired, matured or product, subject to surrender charges.
at least equal to a certain minimum amount otherwise been surrendered or terminated.
These are also referred to as unitlinked after a specified number of years.
Inherited estate For life insurance proprietary companies, Liquidity coverage ratio surplus capital available on top of what is Prudential calculates this as assets and necessary to cover policyholders resources available to us that are readily reasonable expectations.
An inherited convertible to cash to cover corporate orphan estate is effectively surplus capital obligations in a prescribed stress scenario.
on a realistic basis built over time and not We calculate this ratio over a range of time allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 399 Glossary continued Liquidity premium Open ended investment company Prudential Regulation Authority This comprises the premium that is OEIC or PRA required to compensate for the lower A collective investment fund structured as The PRA is a UK regulatory body liquidity of corporate bonds relative to a limited company in which investors can responsible for prudential regulation and swaps and the mark to market risk premium buy and sell shares.
supervision of banks, building societies, that is required to compensate for the credit unions, insurers and major Operational borrowings potential volatility in corporate bond investment firms.
Borrowings which arise in the normal spreads and hence market values at the course of the business.
Regular premium product time of sale.
A life insurance product with regular Participating funds Market value reduction MVR periodic premium payments.
Distinct portfolios where the policyholders A reduction applied to the payment on have a contractual right to receive at the Rider withprofits bonds when policyholders discretion of the insurer additional benefits A supplemental plan that can be attached surrender in adverse market conditions.
based on factors such as the performance to a basic insurance policy, with payment Money Market Fund MMF of a pool of assets held within the fund, as of additional premium.
An MMF is an openended mutual fund a supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
Risk margin reserve RMR charge that invests in shortterm debt securities The insurer may either have discretion as An RMR is included within operating profit such as US treasury bills and commercial to the timing of the allocation of those based on longerterm investment returns paper.
The purpose of an MMF is to benefits to participating policyholders or and represents a charge for longterm provide investors with a safe place to invest may have discretion as to the timing and expected defaults of debt securities, easily accessible cashequivalent assets the amount of the additional benefits.
For determined by reference to the credit characterised as a lowrisk, lowreturn Prudential the most significant participating quality of the portfolio.
funds are withprofits funds for business written in the UK, Hong Kong, Malaysia Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund Mortality rate and Singapore.
SAIF Rate of death, varying by such parameters SAIF is a ringfenced subfund of the as age, gender, and health, used in pricing Participating policies or Prudential Assurance Companys and computing liabilities for future participating business longterm fund following the acquisition of policyholders of life and annuity products, Contracts of insurance where the the mutually owned Scottish Amicable Life which contain mortality risks.
policyholders have a contractual right to Assurance Society in 1997.
The fund is receive, at the discretion of the insurer, Net premiums solely for the benefit of policyholders of additional benefits based on factors such Life insurance premiums, net of SAIF.
Shareholders of Prudential plc have as investment performance, as a reinsurance ceded to thirdparty no interest in the profits of this fund supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
although they are entitled to asset This is also referred to as withprofits management fees on this business.
Net worth Net assets for EEV reporting purposes that Separate account Payback period reflect the regulatory basis position, A separate account is a pool of investments Payback period is the time in which the sometimes with adjustments to achieve held by an insurance company not in or initial cash outflow of investment is consistency with the IFRS treatment of separate from its general account.
expected to be recovered from the cash certain items.
The returns from the separate account inflows generated by the investment.
We generally accrue to the policyholder.
measure cash outflow by our investment New business margin A separate account allows an investor to of free surplus in new business sales.
The The value of new business on an EEV basis choose an investment category according payback period equals the time taken for expressed as a percentage of the present to his individual risk tolerance, and desire this business to generate free surplus to value of new business premiums expected for performance.
Payback periods to be received from the new business.
are measured on an undiscounted basis.
Single premiums New business profit Single premium policies of insurance are Present value of new business The profits, calculated in accordance with those that require only a single lump sum premiums or PVNBP European Embedded Value Principles, payment from the policyholder.
The present value of new business from business sold in the financial reporting premiums is calculated as equalling single period under consideration.
Stochastic techniques premiums plus the present value of Stochastic techniques incorporate results expected premiums of new regular Non-participating business from repeated simulations using key premium business, allowing for lapses and A life insurance policy where the financial parameters which are subject to other assumptions made in determining policyholder is not entitled to a share of the random variations and are projected into the EEV new business contribution.
companys profits and surplus, but receives the future.
Also known as nonprofit in the UK.
Examples include pure risk policies eg fixed annuities, term insurance, critical illness and unitlinked insurance contracts.
400 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Subordinated debt Universal life A fixed interest issue or debt that ranks An insurance product where the customer below other debt in order of priority for pays flexible premiums, subject to specified repayment if the issuer is liquidated.
limits, which are accumulated in an account Holders are compensated for the added and are credited with interest at a rate risk through higher rates of interest.
Under either set by the insurer or reflecting EU insurance regulation, subordinated returns on a pool of matching assets.
The debt is not treated as a liability and counts customer may vary the death benefit and towards the coverage of the required the contract may permit the customer to minimum margin of solvency, with withdraw the account balance, typically limitations.
Surrender Variable annuity VA US The termination of a life insurance policy or An annuity whose value is determined by annuity contract at the request of the the performance of underlying investment policyholder after which the policyholder options that frequently includes securities.
receives the cash surrender value, if any, of A variable annuitys value is not guaranteed the contract.
and will fluctuate, depending on the value of its underlying investments.
The holder Surrender charge or surrender fee of a variable annuity assumes the The fee charged to a policyholder when a investment risk and the funds backing a life insurance policy or annuity contract is variable annuity are held in the insurance surrendered for its cash surrender value companies separate account.
VAs are prior to the end of the surrender charge similar to unitlinked annuities in the UK.
Whole of life Takaful A type of life insurance policy that provides Insurance that is compliant with Islamic lifetime protection: premiums must usually principles.
The sum assured is paid out whenever death occurs.
Commonly used Time value of options and for estate planning purposes.
guarantees The value of financial options and With-profits funds guarantees comprises two parts, the See participating funds above.
intrinsic value and the time value.
The intrinsic value is given by a deterministic Yield valuation on best estimate assumptions.
A measure of the income received from an The time value is the additional value investment compared to the price paid for arising from the variability of economic the investment.
Normally expressed as a outcomes in the future.
Total shareholder return TSR TSR represents the growth in the value of a share plus the value of dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares on the ex dividend date.
Unallocated surplus Unallocated surplus is recorded wholly as a liability and represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for Prudentials withprofits funds.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the with profits business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
Unit-linked products or unit-linked contracts See investmentlinked products or contracts above.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 401
