Group Chief Executives report Mike Wells continued In the UK, both our UK life and asset The growing and increasingly wealthy In the UK and Europe there is growing management businesses performed well middle classes of the region are under demand among customers for managed in 2017.
PruFund new business APE sales protected.
In Asia, outofpocket solutions, savings products that provide increased 36 per cent to 1.2 billion, healthcare spend makes up 42 per cent of better longterm returns than cash, while 15 while M&G saw record net inflows of total health expenditure, compared with smoothing out the ups and downs of the 17.3 billion from external clients.
just 12 per cent in the US and 9 per cent in market.
We meet that need through our Overall M&G Prudential assets under the UK.
While in a more developed market PruFund propositions and our 4 management reached 351 billion, up such as the UK insurance penetration is comprehensive range of actively managed 16 from 311 billion at 31 December 2016. equivalent to 7.5 per cent of GDP, in Asia funds.
M&G Prudential is well positioned to 16 that figure is just 2.4 per cent, giving an target this growing customer demand for Our financial KPIs continue to reflect the idea of the scale of the growth opportunity comprehensive financial solutions and the outcome of the Groups strategy.
Our Asia that remains in our Asian markets.
The gap demerger will enable this business to play life businesses are driven by growth in our between the insurance cover of people in an even greater role in these markets.
recurring premium base and focus on health the region and what they need in order to and protection business, and elsewhere we Doing more for our customers maintain the living standards of their are benefiting from our prioritisation of We deliver on our clear strategy and our families has been estimated at circa feegenerating products across our Asia 17 longterm opportunities by paying close 35 trillion.
We help to bridge that gap asset management, US variable annuity and attention to the needs of our customers, by with a broad range of solutions across UK and European asset management responding to those needs with products 14 markets in the region.
We are in the top activities.
18 that fit their changing requirements, and by three in nine of our markets in Asia, and improving our capabilities continually in we have 15 million life customers, with A successful strategy order to deliver the best products in the access to total markets of more than Our performance is based on our clear, most effective way.
consistent and successful strategy, which is focused on longterm opportunities arising In Asia, our broadbased portfolio of The United States is the worlds largest from structural trends in our markets businesses continues to drive the growth of retirement market, with approximately around the world.
We are constantly improving 40 million Americans reaching retirement the range and quality of the products we age over the next decade alone, and these In Asia, the growth of the middle class is offer in the region, developing our consumers have a need for investment creating significant and longterm demand multichannel distribution platform to options through which they can grow their for the products we offer.
The workingage ensure that those products reach as many savings while at the same time protecting population in the region is growing by customers as possible and improving our their income.
This is creating demand for a million people a month, and by 2030 is capabilities throughout our operations, not 13 our variable annuity products, which are expected to reach 2.5 billion, while least by accessing new innovations in designed to help this cohort of Americans 65 per cent of Asian private financial wealth digital technology.
14 avoid running out of money and provide is held in cash and at the same time, that 14 them with a reliable cushion against volatile wealth is growing by US$4 trillion a year.
We develop products that meet the needs markets.
In the US, over US$15 trillion is of our customers, whether that is for more invested in adviserdistributed financial personalised features or products aimed at assets net of existing annuities, while new areas of the market and in 2017 we penetration of variable annuity sales into launched a number of new health and the retirement market remains low, protection products in Indonesia, Vietnam, demonstrating the scale of the opportunity Singapore, Malaysia and Hong Kong.
Prudentials Group Executive Committee Mike Wells is advised and assisted by the Group Executive Committee, which comprises our Executive Directors and a team of functional specialists.
The members of the Group Executive Committee and their roles are set out on page 406.
Back, left to right: Tim Rolfe, Julian Adams, AlNoor Ramji, Anne Richards, Jonathan Oliver, Alan Porter.
Front, left to right: Nic Nicandrou, John Foley, Mike Wells, Mark FitzPatrick, Barry Stowe.
James Turner was appointed as an Executive Director and as Group Chief Risk Officer in March 2018.
06 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
