How to contact us Prudential plc Group Executive Committee Shareholder contacts Laurence Pountney Hill Tel 44 0 20 7548 3300 London EC4R 0HH Julian Adams Email: investor.
co. uk Tel 44 0 20 7220 7588 Group Regulatory and www.
co. uk Government Relations Director UK Register private shareholder enquiries Jonathan Oliver Tel 0371 384 2035 Group Communications Director Board International shareholders Alan Porter Tel 44 0 121 415 7026 Paul Manduca Group General Counsel and Chairman Company Secretary Irish Branch Register private shareholder enquiries Al-Noor Ramji Executive Directors Tel 353 1 553 0050 Group Chief Digital Officer Mike Wells Group Chief Executive Tim Rolfe Hong Kong Branch Register Group Human Resources Director private shareholder enquiries Mark FitzPatrick Tel 852 2862 8555 Chief Financial Officer Business units John Foley US American Depositary Chief Executive of M&G Prudential M&G Prudential Receipts holder enquiries 12 Arthur Street Tel 1 651 453 2128 Nic Nicandrou London EC4R 9AQ Chief Executive of www.
co. uk The Central Depository Pte Prudential Corporation Asia Tel 44 0 800 000 000 Limited shareholder enquiries Anne Richards www.
co. uk Tel 65 6535 7511 Deputy Chief Executive of Tel 44 0 800 328 3192 M&G Prudential and Media enquiries John Foley Chief Executive of M&G Tel 44 0 20 7548 2776 Chief Executive of M&G Prudential Email: media.
co. uk Barry Stowe Anne Richards Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive of of North American Business Unit M&G Prudential and James Turner Chief Executive of M&G Group Chief Risk Officer Prudential Corporation Asia Non-executive Directors 13th Floor Philip Remnant One International Finance Centre Senior Independent Director 1 Harbour View Street Central Sir Howard Davies Hong Kong David Law Tel 852 2918 6300 www.
com Kai Nargolwala Nic Nicandrou Anthony Nightingale Chief Executive of Alice Schroeder Prudential Corporation Asia Lord Turner Jackson National Life Tom Watjen Insurance Company 1 Corporate Way Lansing Michigan 48951 USA Tel 1 517 381 5500 www.
com Barry Stowe Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of North American Business Unit 406 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Prudential public limited company Incorporated and registered in England and Wales Registered office Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH Registered number 1397169 www.
co. uk Principal place of business in Hong Kong 13th Floor One International Finance Centre 1 Harbour View Street Central Hong Kong Prudential plc is a holding company, subsidiaries of which are authorised and regulated, as applicable, by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 407 Forward-looking statements impact and other uncertainties of future This document may contain forward acquisitions or combinations within looking statements with respect to certain relevant industries: the impact of internal of Prudentials plans and its goals and projects and other strategic actions failing expectations relating to its future financial to meet their objectives: disruption to the condition, performance, results, strategy availability, confidentiality or integrity of and objectives.
Statements that are not Prudentials IT systems or those of its historical facts, including statements about suppliers : the impact of changes in capital, Prudentials beliefs and expectations and solvency standards, accounting standards including, without limitation, statements or relevant regulatory frameworks, and tax containing the words may, will, should, and other legislation and regulations in the continue, aims, estimates, projects, jurisdictions in which Prudential and its believes, intends, expects, plans, affiliates operate: and the impact of legal seeks and anticipates, and words of and regulatory actions, investigations and similar meaning, are forwardlooking disputes.
These and other important statements.
These statements are based factors may, for example, result in changes on plans, estimates and projections as at to assumptions used for determining the time they are made, and therefore results of operations or reestimations of undue reliance should not be placed on reserves for future policy benefits.
By their nature, all forwardlooking discussion of these and other important statements involve risk and uncertainty.
factors that could cause Prudentials actual A number of important factors could future financial condition or performance cause Prudentials actual future financial or other indicated results to differ, possibly condition or performance or other materially, from those anticipated in indicated results to differ materially from Prudentials forwardlooking statements those indicated in any forwardlooking can be found under the Risk factors statement.
Such factors include, but are heading in this document and the annual not limited to, the timing, costs and report and the Risk factors heading of successful implementation of the demerger Prudentials most recent annual report on described herein: the future trading value Form 20F filed with the US Securities and of the shares of Prudential plc and the Exchange Commission.
Prudentials most trading value and liquidity of the tobe recent annual report and Form 20F are listed M&G Prudential business following available on its website at such demerger: future market conditions, www.
co. uk including fluctuations in interest rates Any forwardlooking statements contained and exchange rates, the potential for a in this document speak only as of the date sustained lowinterest rate environment, on which they are made.
Prudential and the performance of financial markets expressly disclaims any obligation to generally: the policies and actions of update any of the forwardlooking regulatory authorities, including, for statements contained in this document or example, new government initiatives: the any other forwardlooking statements it political, legal and economic effects of the may make, whether as a result of future UKs decision to leave the European Union: events, new information or otherwise the impact of continuing designation as a except as required pursuant to the UK Global Systemically Important Insurer or Prospectus Rules, the UK Listing Rules, the GSII: the impact of competition, UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the economic uncertainty, inflation and Hong Kong Listing Rules, the SGXST deflation: the effect on Prudentials listing rules or other applicable laws and business and results from, in particular, regulations.
mortality and morbidity trends, lapse rates and policy renewal rates: the timing, 408 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk History Providing financial security since 1848 Successive generations have looked to Prudential to safeguard their financial security from industrial workers and their families in Victorian Britain to over 26 million customers worldwide today.
Our financial strength, heritage, prudence and focus on our customers long-term needs ensure that people continue to turn to our trusted brands to help them plan for today and tomorrow.
1848 1923 2010 Prudential is established as Prudential Prudentials first overseas life branch is Prudential plc is listed on stock exchanges Mutual Assurance, Investment and Loan established in India, with the first policy in Hong Kong and Singapore.
Association in Hatton Garden, London, being sold to a tea planter in Assam.
2014 offering loans and life assurance to 1924 Prudential acquires businesses in Ghana and professional people.
Prudential shares are floated on the Kenya, marking its entry into the fastgrowing 1854 London Stock Exchange.
Prudential opens the Industrial Department 1949 2017 to sell a new type of insurance, Industrial The Man from the Pru advertising M&G and Prudential UK & Europe combine Insurance, to the working classes, for campaign is launched.
to form M&G Prudential, a leading savings premiums of a penny and upwards.
and investments business ideally positioned 1986 1871 to target growing customer demand for Prudential acquires Jackson National Life The Company becomes one of the first comprehensive financial solutions.
Insurance in the United States.
in the City to employ women.
Calculating 2018 machines are also introduced, bringing 1994 Prudential plc announces its intention to efficiencies to the processing of an Prudential Corporation Asia is formed demerge its UK and Europe business, increasing volume of business.
in Hong Kong as a regional head office to M&G Prudential, resulting in two separately expand operations beyond an existing 1879 listed companies, with different investment presence in Malaysia, Singapore and Prudential moves into Holborn Bars, a characteristics and opportunities.
purposebuilt office complex designed by Alfred Waterhouse.
The building becomes 1999 a London landmark, and remains part of Prudential acquires M&G, pioneer of unit Prudentials property portfolio to this day.
trusts in the UK and a leading provider of investment products.
1912 Following the National Insurance Act, 2000 Prudential works with the government Prudential plc is listed on the New York to run Approved Societies, providing Stock Exchange.
Prudential becomes the sickness and unemployment benefits first UK life insurer to enter the Mainland to five million people.
China market through its joint venture with www.
prudentialhistor y. co. uk CITIC Group.
Adding more to life: The founding of Prudential The Prudential Mutual Assurance, Prudentials first policies were issued Investment and Loan Association was in 1849.
The Companys first annual formed on 30 May 1848, in a room at report, published in 1850, stated that: 12 Hatton Garden, London the premises the Directors are pleased to think that of Hanslip and Manning solicitors.
they might infix habits of Prudence among many individuals, focusing on The Companys leatherbound Deed customers such as the clergyman of Settlement lists the first shareholders who requires advances for the erection and directors, and outlines the Companys of his parsonage and the officer who purpose to offer life assurance and seeks the price of his commission.
loans to the middle classes.
Shareholders including lawyers, doctors, a wine merchant and a number of gentlemen accounted for the first 1,530 shares in the Company.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 Prudential public limited company Incorporated and registered in England and Wales Registered office Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH Registered number 1397169 www.
co. uk Prudential plc is a holding company, subsidiaries of which are authorised and regulated, as applicable, by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority.
Printed on Amadeus 75 Matt, a paper made from 75 per cent recycled postconsumer waste and 25 per cent fibre sourced from fully sustainable forests: and Amadeus 100 White Offset which is made from 100 per cent recycled postconsumer waste.
All material used in this report has been independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
All pulps used are elemental chlorine free, and the inks used are vegetable oil based.
The manufacturing mills and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are FSC chainofcustody certified.
Designed by FleishmanHillard Fishburn Printed in the UK by CPI Colour
