e n B v u s i t r s n i o e n n m e m t s s e s e n v t t i n i d r e u t o t r n M n C O m e o e o p m n r m i f e e t s r s o r k a r s u R s t i a s i e R i R n s i a o s s d k e s n k t s r a a m R e a e e p i l s k p p e d o k k r t p o s l n t a r m i e i b i t R R a t a c u m M i I i n s i t s n i a e e m k n g s, e s s e o l s u i f m s c a r r Report on the risks facing our business and how these are managed Generating value through selective exposure to risk 2017 was, in many respects, a year of withstand the impact of an adverse The following section provides more detail global geopolitical transition.
For our retained risks, we ensure on our risk governance, risk culture and risk discontent was one of the driving factors, that we have the necessary capabilities, management process.
shifting the political landscape in many expertise, processes and controls to Risk governance countries, in particular in the US and across manage the exposure appropriately.
Our risk governance comprises the Board, Western Europe.
The nature of technology Our Group Risk Framework and risk organisational structures, reporting risks evolved during the year, with high appetite have allowed us to control our risk relationships, delegation of authority, roles profile and untargeted attacks affecting exposure successfully throughout the year.
and responsibilities, and risk policies that companies around the world.
Despite all Our governance, processes and controls the Group Head Office and our business this, financial markets appeared largely enable us to deal with the uncertainty units establish to make decisions and unperturbed during 2017 with low volatility ahead in order to continue helping our control their activities on riskrelated and steady and broad global economic customers achieve their longterm financial matters.
This encompasses individuals, growth, and the first steps were taken goals.
Groupwide functions and committees toward monetary policy tightening in involved in overseeing and managing risk.
This section explains the main risks inherent in our business and how we As in previous years, we continue to Risk committees and manage those risks, with the aim of maintain a sustained focus on managing governance structure ensuring we maintain an appropriate risk prevailing market conditions and Our risk governance structure is led by profile.
macroeconomic uncertainty arising from the Group Risk Committee, supported the global environment.
Looking internally, by independent nonexecutives on risk Risk governance, culture and in August 2017 we announced our committees of major subsidiaries.
These our risk management cycle intention to combine M&G and our UK life committees monitor the development of Prudential defines risk as the uncertainty business to form M&G Prudential, allowing the Group Risk Framework, which includes that we face in implementing our strategies us better to leverage our scale and risk appetite, limits, and policies, as well as and objectives successfully, which are capabilities.
Change inherently carries risk, risk culture.
This includes all but we will manage and minimise this internal or external events, acts or In addition to our risk committees, there are appropriately in order to provide better omissions that have the potential to threaten various executive risk forums to ensure risk outcomes for our customers.
the success and survival of the Group.
issues are shared and considered across Accordingly, material risks will be retained Our results show that, even in times of the Group.
These are led by the Group selectively when we think there is value to unpredictability, we can generate value Executive Risk Committee, an advisory do so, and where it is consistent with the for our shareholders by taking selective committee to the Group Chief Risk Officer Groups risk appetite and philosophy exposure to risks that are rewarded which is supported by a number of towards risktaking.
commensurately and that can be quantified subcommittees, including security and appropriately and managed.
We retain information security where specialist skills risks within a clearly defined risk appetite, and knowledge are required.
where we believe doing so contributes to value creation and the Group is able to Risk governance Risk management cycle Identified major risk categories Risk Risk Group management culture risk profile cycle 48 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk m e p o a n d i n r t t m o n n s d f d r c a o c u a a e i s c u s n m t g M r t d s d e n a e a r w o t t n a i n o r t a i a r o a g d k r s g B c t g n e a i L f S o e i i r i a r t t q s n d n a r d u e s e i d c p i d o o i k n t s s t s i y r e R o n l i s u b r u o m o r f s k s i R 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Group Risk Framework quantitative expressions of risk appetite, Earnings volatility The Group Risk Framework has been operationalised through measures such as The objectives of the aggregate risk limits developed to monitor and manage the risks limits, triggers, thresholds and indicators.
seek to ensure that: to our business and is owned by the Board.
The Group Risk function is responsible for The volatility of earnings is consistent The aggregate Group exposure to our key reviewing the scope and operation of these with the expectations of stakeholders: risk drivers is monitored and managed by risk appetite measures at least annually to the Group Risk function which is responsible determine that they remain relevant.
The The Group has adequate earnings for reviewing, assessing and reporting on Board approves all changes made to the and cash flows to service debt, the Groups risk exposure and solvency Groups aggregate risk appetite, and has expected dividends and to withstand position from the Group economic, delegated authority to the Group Risk unexpected shocks: and regulatory and ratings perspectives.
Committee to approve changes to the Earnings and cash flows are managed system of limits, triggers and indicators.
The Framework requires all our businesses properly across geographies and are and functions to establish processes for Group risk appetite is set with reference to consistent with funding strategies.
identifying, evaluating, managing and economic and regulatory capital, liquidity The two measures used to monitor the reporting of the key risks faced by the and earnings volatility, as well as for our volatility of earnings are IFRS operating Group the Risk Management Cycle major risks, and is aimed at ensuring that profit and EEV operating profit, although see below is based on the concept of the we take an appropriate level of aggregate IFRS and EEV total profits are also three lines of defence, comprising risk risk.
It covers risks to shareholders, considered.
taking and management, risk control and including those from participating and oversight, and independent assurance.
Liquidity The objective is to ensure that the Group is A major part of the Risk Management Cycle We have some appetite to take market able to generate sufficient cash resources is the annual assessment of the Groups and credit risk where it arises from to meet financial obligations as they fall due most material risks.
These risks range from profitgenerating insurance activities, in business as usual and stressed scenarios.
those associated with the economic, to the extent that it remains part of a Risk appetite with respect to liquidity risk is market, political and regulatory balanced portfolio of sources of income measured using a Liquidity Coverage Ratio environment: those that we assume when for shareholders and is compatible with which considers the sources of liquidity writing our insurance products and by a robust solvency position.
We also have against liquidity requirements under stress virtue of the investments we hold: and some appetite for retaining insurance scenarios.
those that are inherent in our business risks in areas where we believe we have model and its operations.
This is used to expertise and operational controls, and Capital requirements inform risk reporting to the risk committees where we judge it to create more value to The limits aim to ensure that: and the Board for the year.
retain rather than transfer the risk.
The extent of insurance risk that we are willing to The Group meets its internal economic The Group Risk Committee reviews the hold is conditional on a balanced portfolio capital requirements: Group Risk Framework and recommends of income to shareholders and compatibility changes to our Board to ensure that it The Group achieves its desired target with a robust solvency position.
remains effective in identifying and rating to meet its business objectives: managing the risks faced by the Group.
We have no appetite for material losses and A number of core risk policies and direct or indirect suffered as a result of Supervisory intervention is avoided.
standards support the Framework to failing to develop, implement or monitor ensure that risks to the Group are identified, appropriate controls to manage operational The two measures used at the Group level assessed, managed and reported.
Similarly, we have no appetite for are Solvency II capital requirements and liquidity risk, ie for any business to have internal economic capital ECap During 2017 we made a number of insufficient resources to cover its requirements.
In addition, capital enhancements to our policies and outgoing cash flows, or for the Group as a requirements are monitored on local processes.
These included changes to our whole to not meet cash flow requirements statutory bases.
processes around new product approvals, from its debt obligations under any management of our critical outsourcing The Group Risk Committee is responsible plausible scenario.
arrangements and increased oversight for reviewing the risks inherent in the of model risk across the Group.
A new Group limits operate within these Groups business plan and for providing the framework was developed to support expressions of risk appetite to constrain Board with input on the risk reward the monitoring and reporting of risks material risks, while triggers and indicators tradeoffs implicit therein.
This review associated with material transformation provide further constraint and ensure is supported by the Group Risk function, programmes, and work continued over escalation.
The Group Chief Risk Officer which uses submissions from our local the year on the Groups risk culture.
determines the action to be taken upon all business units to calculate the Groups breaches of Group limits which may aggregated position allowing for Risk appetite, limits and triggers include escalation to the Group Risk diversification effects between local The extent to which we are willing to take Committee or Board.
Any decision on business units relative to the aggregate risk in the pursuit of our business strategy action taken by the Group Chief Risk risk limits.
and objective to create shareholder value Officer is reviewed at the subsequent is defined by a number of qualitative and Group Risk Committee meeting.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 49 Report on the risks facing our business and how these are managed continued Risk policies During 2017 a risk culture assessment In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the These set out the specific requirements was performed across the Group.
The UK Code, the Directors perform a robust which cover the fundamental principles assessment allowed us to compare the assessment of the principal risks facing the for risk management within the Group Risk Groups risk culture against best practice Company through the Groupwide risk Framework.
Policies are designed to give behaviours, identify any areas which need identification process, Group ORSA report, some flexibility so that business users can improvement and provide highlevel and the risk assessments done as part of determine how best to comply with policies industry benchmarking and peer the business planning review, including based on their local expertise.
The Group Risk Committee how they are managed and mitigated.
also has a key role in providing advice to the There are core risk policies for credit, Reverse stress testing, which requires us Remuneration Committee on risk market, insurance, liquidity and operational to ascertain the point of business model management considerations to be applied risks and a number of internal control failure, is another tool that helps us to in respect of executive remuneration.
policies covering internal model risk, identify the key risks and scenarios that underwriting, dealing controls and tax risk Our Code of Conduct and our Group may have a material impact on the Group.
They form part of the Group Governance Manual include a series of Our emerging risk management process Governance Manual, which was guiding principles that govern the identifies potentially material risks which developed to make a key contribution to daytoday conduct of all our people and have a high degree of uncertainty around the sound system of internal control that any organisations acting on our behalf.
This timing, magnitude and propensity to we maintain in line with the UK Corporate is supported by specific risk policies which evolve.
In 2017 we enhanced our Emerging Governance Code and the Hong Kong require that we act in a responsible manner.
Risk Framework to bring it closer to the Code on Corporate Governance Practices.
This includes, but is not limited to, policies Groups risk management activity.
This Group Head Office and business units on antimoney laundering, financial crime included a redefinition of the relationship must confirm on an annual basis that they and antibribery and corruption.
Our between emerging and emerged risks, have implemented the necessary controls Group outsourcing and thirdparty supply enabling a consistent framework for to evidence compliance with the Group policy ensures that human rights and evaluating and escalating sufficiently Governance Manual.
modern slavery considerations are developed emerging risks for risk embedded within all of our supplier and management activity.
The Group holds Risk standards supply chain arrangements.
We also have emerging risk sessions over the year to The Groupwide Operating Standards embedded procedures to allow individuals identify emerging risks which includes provide supporting detail to the higher to speak out safely and anonymously input from local subject matter and level risk policies.
In many cases they against unethical behaviour and conduct.
We maintain contacts define the minimum requirements for The risks associated with our environmental, with thought leaders and peers to compliance with Solvency II regulations social and governance ESG activities and benchmark and refine our process.
which in some areas are highly the policies we maintain in relation to them, prescriptive.
The standards are more The risk profile is a key output from the are detailed in the Corporate responsibility detailed than policies.
risk identification and risk measurement review on page 64. processes, and is used as a basis for Our risk culture setting Groupwide limits, management Risk identification Culture is a strategic priority of the Board information, assessment of solvency Groupwide risk identification takes who recognise the importance of good needs, and determining appropriate stress place throughout the year and includes culture in the way that we do business.
The risk identification processes such as our Own Risk and Risk culture is a subset of broader processes support the creation of our Solvency Assessment ORSA and the organisational culture, which shapes the annual set of key risks, which are then horizonscanning performed as part of organisationwide values that we use to given enhanced management and our emerging risk management process.
prioritise risk management behaviours reporting focus.
On an annual basis, a topdown identification of the Groups key risks is Risk measurement and assessment An evaluation of risk culture forms part of performed, which considers those risks All identified risks are assessed based on the Group Risk Framework and in particular that have the greatest potential to impact an appropriate methodology for that risk.
seeks to identify evidence that: the Groups operating results and financial All quantifiable risks which are material and Senior management in business units condition.
A bottomup process of risk mitigated by holding capital are modelled articulate the need for good risk identification is performed by the business in the Groups internal model, which is management as a way to realise units who identify, assess and document used to determine capital requirements longterm value and continuously risks, with appropriate coordination and under Solvency II and our own economic support this through their actions: challenge from the risk functions.
Governance arrangements are in place to support the internal model, Employees understand and care about The Group ORSA report pulls together the including independent validation and their role in managing risk they are analysis performed by a number of risk and process and controls around model aware of and discuss risk openly as part capital management processes, which are changes and limitations.
of the way they perform their role: and embedded across the Group, and provides quantitative and qualitative assessments Employees invite open discussion of the Groups risk profile, risk management on the approach to the management and solvency needs on a forwardlooking of risk.
The scope of the report covers the full known risk universe of the Group.
50 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults t t n M n e o e m n m i e t s o r r s u a s e n a s d e s r a m e p d k o s n r i t R a The risk management cycle The risk management cycle comprises processes to identify, measure and assess, manage and control, and monitor and report on our risks.
Risk identification covers Groupwide: Risks are assessed in terms of materiality.
Top down risk identification Material risks which are modelled are Bottom up risk identification included in capital models, including Emerging risk identification ECap.
Risks which cannot be quantified are assessed qualitatively.
Risk management Risk reports provide monthly updates Risk processes that support the cycle to the Group Executive Risk Committee, management and controlling of risk Group Risk Committee and Board on exposures include: exposure against Boardapproved risk Risk appetite and limits appetite statements and limits.
Financial incidents procedures Large risk approval process Risk reports also provide updates on the Global counterparty limit framework Group top risks.
Own risk and solvency assessment Reverse stress testing Risk management and control These risk policies define: The control procedures and systems The Groups risk appetite in respect of established within the Group are designed material risks, and the framework under to manage the risk of failing to meet which the Groups exposure to those business objectives reasonably and are risks is limited: detailed in the Group risk policies.
This can only provide reasonable and not absolute The processes to enable Group senior assurance against material misstatement or management to effect the measurement loss.
They focus on aligning the levels of and management of the Group material risktaking with the achievement of risk profile in a consistent and coherent business objectives.
way: and The management and control of risks The flows of management information are set out in the Group risk policies, and required to support the measurement form part of the holistic risk management and management of the Group material approach under the Groups ORSA.
risk profile and to meet the needs of external stakeholders.
The methods and risk management tools we employ to mitigate each of our major categories of risks are detailed in the Further risk information section below.
Risk monitoring and reporting The identification of the Groups key risks informs the management information received by the Group risk committees and the Board.
Risk reporting of key exposures against appetite is also included, as well as ongoing developments in other key and emerging risks.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 51 M n a o n i t a a g c e i f i a t n n d e d c i o k n s t i r R o l Report on the risks facing our business and how these are managed continued Summary risks Macro risks Risks from our investments Risks from our products Risks from our business operations The components of our business model, outlined on page 12, give rise to risks of Some of the risks that we are exposed to are necessarily broad given the external Credit risk Insurance risks Operational risks varying nature across the Group which influences which may impact on the Group.
Is the potential for reduced value of our The nature of the products offered by the The complexity of our Group and activities can broadly be categorised as those which These risks include: investments due to the uncertainty Group exposes it to insurance risks, means we face a challenging operating arise as a result of our business operations: around investment returns arising from which we consider to form a significant environment.
This results from the high those risks arising from our investments: Global economic conditions the potential for defaults of our part of our overall Group risk profile.
volume of transactions we process: product those which arise from the nature of our Changes in global economic conditions can impact us directly: for example by leading investment counterparties.
Invested and investment portfolios: our people, The insurance risks that we are exposed products: and those broad risks which to poor returns on our investments and increasing the cost of promises guarantees we credit risk arises from our asset portfolio.
processes and IT systems: and the extensive to by virtue of our products include apply to us because of the global have made to our customers.
Our fund investment performance may also be impacted, We increase sector focus where regulations under which we operate.
longevity risk policyholders living environment in which we operate.
These which is a fundamental part of our business in providing appropriate returns for our necessary.
longer than expected : mortality risk We also face operational risks through risks, where they materialise, may have a customers and shareholders.
Changes in economic conditions can also have an The assets backing the M&G Prudential policyholders with life protection dying : business transformation: introducing new financial impact on the Group, and could indirect impact on us: for example economic pressures could lead to decreased and Jackson annuity businesses means morbidity risk policyholders with products: new technologies: engaging in third also impact on the performance of our savings, reducing the propensity for people to buy our products.
Global economic credit risk is considered a material risk for health protection becoming ill and party relationships: and entering into new products or the services we provide our conditions may also impact on regulatory risk for the Group by changing prevailing these business units in particular.
persistency risk customers lapsing markets and geographies.
Implementing our customers and distributors, which gives political attitudes towards regulation.
We consider this to be a risk which is material their policies, and a type of policyholder business strategy requires interconnected rise to potential risks to our brand, at the level of the Group.
change initiatives across the Group.
The pace reputation and have conduct risk Is the potential for reduced value of our Geopolitical risk of change further adds to the complexity of implications.
These risks are summarised From our health protection products, investments resulting from the volatility The geopolitical environment has produced varying levels of volatility in recent years our operational risk profile.
We have indicated whether these increases in the costs of claims including of asset prices as driven by fluctuations as seen by political developments in the UK, the US and the Eurozone.
Uncertainty in risks are considered material at the level the level of medical expenses increasing Without an effective operational risk in equity prices, interest rates, foreign these regions, combined with conflict in the Middle East and elevated tensions in east of the Group or our business units.
Our over and above price inflation claim framework, such risks could cause significant exchange rates and property prices.
Asia and the Korean peninsula underline that geopolitical risks are truly global and their disclosures covering risk factors can be inflation is another risk.
disruption our systems and operations, Certain market risks are considered more potential impacts are wideranging: for example through increased regulatory and found at the end of this document.
resulting in financial loss and or reputational material for specific business units.
The geopolitical and economic environments are increasingly closely The processes that determine the price of damage.
We consider operational risk to be our products and reporting the results of linked, and changes in the political arena may have direct or indirect impacts on In our Asia business, our main market material at the level of the Group.
our longterm business operations risks arise from the value of fees from require us to make a number of Information security risk is a significant our feeearning products.
In the US, Digital disruption assumptions.
Where experience deviates consideration within operational risk, Jacksons fixed and variable annuity The emergence of advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence and block chain from these assumptions our profitability including both the continuously evolving risk books are exposed to a variety of market is providing an impetus for companies to rethink their existing operating models and may be impacted.
of malicious attack on our systems as well as risks due to the assets backing these how they interact with their customers.
We consider digital disruption from both an risks relating to data security and integrity and policies.
Across our business units, some external and internal view.
The external view considers the rise of new technologies network disruption.
The size of Prudentials IT insurance risks are more material than and how this may impact on our industry and our competitiveness within it, while the In the UK, exposure arises from the infrastructure and network, our move toward others.
valuation of the proportion of the internal view considers the risks associated with our own internal developments in digitalisation and the increasing number of meeting digital change challenges and opportunities.
While we are embracing such withprofits funds future profits which is Persistency and morbidity risks are high profile cyber security incidents across transferred to the shareholders future opportunities, we are also closely monitoring any risks which arise.
among the most material insurance risks industries means that this risk will continue to transfers, which is dependent on equity, for our Asia business given our focus on be an area of high focus and is one considered property and bond values.
health protection products in the region.
to be material to the Group.
M&G Prudential invests in a broad range For M&G Prudential the most material Regulatory risk of asset classes and its income is subject insurance risk is longevity risk driven by We also operate under the everevolving to the price volatility of global financial legacy annuity business.
requirements set out by diverse regulatory and currency markets.
and legal and tax regimes, as well as utilising a At Jackson, the most material insurance significant number of third parties to distribute Liquidity risk risk is policyholder behaviour risk, products and to support business operations: Is the risk of not having sufficient liquid including persistency.
This impacts the all of which adds to the complexity of our assets to meet our obligations as they fall profitability of the variable annuity operations.
due, and incorporates the risk arising business and influenced by market from funds composed of illiquid assets.
performance and the value of policy The number of regulatory changes underway It results from a mismatch between the guarantees.
across Asia, in particular those focusing on liquidity profile of assets and liabilities.
consumer protection means that regulatory We consider this a risk which is material change in the region is considered a key risk.
Both Jackson and M&G Prudential operate in highly regulated markets.
Regulatory reforms can have a material impact on our businesses, and regulatory focus continues to be high.
52 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Macro risks Risks from our investments Risks from our products Risks from our business operations Some of the risks that we are exposed to are necessarily broad given the external Credit risk Insurance risks Operational risks influences which may impact on the Group.
Is the potential for reduced value of our The nature of the products offered by the The complexity of our Group and activities These risks include: investments due to the uncertainty Group exposes it to insurance risks, means we face a challenging operating around investment returns arising from which we consider to form a significant environment.
This results from the high Global economic conditions the potential for defaults of our part of our overall Group risk profile.
volume of transactions we process: product Changes in global economic conditions can impact us directly: for example by leading investment counterparties.
Invested and investment portfolios: our people, The insurance risks that we are exposed to poor returns on our investments and increasing the cost of promises guarantees we credit risk arises from our asset portfolio.
processes and IT systems: and the extensive to by virtue of our products include have made to our customers.
longevity risk policyholders living which is a fundamental part of our business in providing appropriate returns for our necessary.
longer than expected : mortality risk We also face operational risks through customers and shareholders.
Changes in economic conditions can also have an The assets backing the M&G Prudential policyholders with life protection dying : business transformation: introducing new indirect impact on us: for example economic pressures could lead to decreased and Jackson annuity businesses means morbidity risk policyholders with products: new technologies: engaging in third savings, reducing the propensity for people to buy our products.
Global economic credit risk is considered a material risk for health protection becoming ill and party relationships: and entering into new conditions may also impact on regulatory risk for the Group by changing prevailing these business units in particular.
Implementing our political attitudes towards regulation.
We consider this to be a risk which is material their policies, and a type of policyholder business strategy requires interconnected at the level of the Group.
The pace Is the potential for reduced value of our Geopolitical risk of change further adds to the complexity of From our health protection products, investments resulting from the volatility The geopolitical environment has produced varying levels of volatility in recent years our operational risk profile.
increases in the costs of claims including of asset prices as driven by fluctuations as seen by political developments in the UK, the US and the Eurozone.
Uncertainty in the level of medical expenses increasing Without an effective operational risk in equity prices, interest rates, foreign these regions, combined with conflict in the Middle East and elevated tensions in east over and above price inflation claim framework, such risks could cause significant exchange rates and property prices.
Asia and the Korean peninsula underline that geopolitical risks are truly global and their inflation is another risk.
disruption our systems and operations, Certain market risks are considered more potential impacts are wideranging: for example through increased regulatory and resulting in financial loss and or reputational material for specific business units.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 53 Report on the risks facing our business and how these are managed continued Further risk information Our interest rate risk is driven in the UK In Asia, our shareholder exposure to equity In reading the sections below, it is useful to business by our need to match the duration price movements results from unitlinked understand that there are some risks that of our assets and liabilities: from the products, where our fee income is linked our policyholders assume by virtue of the guarantees of some non unitlinked to the market value of the funds under nature of their products, and some risks investment products in Asia: and the cost management.
Further exposure arises from that the Company and its shareholders of guarantees in Jacksons fixed, fixed withprofits businesses where bonuses assume.
Examples of the latter include index and variable annuity business.
declared are based broadly on historical those risks arising from assets held directly and current rates of return from our The methods that we use to manage and by and for the Company or the risk that investment portfolios which include mitigate our market risks include the policyholder funds are exhausted.
following: report is focused mainly on risks to the In Jackson, investment risk arises from the shareholder, but will include those which Our market risk policy: assets backing customer policies.
In the arise indirectly through our policyholder Risk appetite statements, limits and case of spreadbased business, including exposures.
triggers that we have in place: fixed annuities, these assets are generally bonds, and shareholder exposure comes Risks from our investments The monitoring and oversight of market from the minimum returns needed to meet Market risk risks through the regular reporting of the guaranteed rates that we offer to The main drivers of market risk in the management information: policyholders.
For our variable annuity Group are: Our asset and liability management business, these assets include both Investment risk including equity programmes: equities and bonds.
In this case, the main and property risk : risk to the shareholder comes from the Use of derivative programmes, guaranteed benefits that can be included Interest rate risk: and including, for example, interest rate as part of these products.
Our exposure to swaps, options and hybrid options for Given the geographical diversity of this is reduced by using a derivative interest rate risk: our business, foreign exchange risk.
hedging programme, as well as through the Regular deep dive assessments: and use of reinsurance to pass on the risk to With respect to investment risk, equity thirdparty reinsurers.
and property risk arises from our holdings Use of currency hedging.
of equity and property investments, the Interest rate risk prices of which can change depending on Investment risk Audited market conditions.
Audited While longterm interest rates in advanced In the UK business, our main investment The valuation of our assets particularly the economies have increased broadly since risk arises from the assets held in the bonds that we invest in and liabilities are mid2016 and indications are for further withprofits funds.
Although this is mainly also dependent on market interest rates gradual tightening of monetary policy and held by our policyholders, a proportion and exposes us to the risk of those moving the start of balance sheet normalisation of the funds declared bonuses and in a way that is detrimental for us.
by central banks, they remain close to policyholder net investment gains is shared historical lows.
Some products that we Given our global business, we earn our with shareholders and so our investment offer are sensitive to movements in interest profits and have assets and liabilities in exposure relates to the future performance rates.
We have already taken a number of various currencies.
The translation of those of that proportion future transfers.
actions to reduce the risk to the inforce into our reporting currency exposes us to This investment risk is driven mainly business, as well as repricing and movements in foreign exchange rates.
by equities in the funds, although there restructuring new business offerings in Our main investment risk exposure arises is some risk associated with other response to these historically low interest from the portion of the profits from the investments such as property and bonds.
Nevertheless, we still retain some M&G Prudential withprofits fund to which Some hedging to protect against a sensitivity to interest rate movements.
we are entitled to receive: the value of the reduction in the value of these future Interest rate risk arises in M&G Prudentials future fees from our feeearning products transfers against falls in equity prices insurance business from the need to match in our Asia business: and from the asset is performed outside the funds using cash payments to meet annuity obligations returns backing Jacksons variable derivatives.
The withprofits funds large with the cash we receive from our annuities business.
Solvency II own funds estimated at investments.
To minimise the impact on 9.6 billion as at 31 December 2017 our profit, we aim to match the duration 31 December 2016: 8.4 billion helps a measure of interest rate sensitivity of to protect against market fluctuations and assets and liabilities as closely as possible helps the funds to maintain appropriate and the position is monitored regularly.
The withprofits funds Under the Solvency II regulatory regime, Solvency II own funds are protected additional interest rate risk results from the partially against falls in equity markets way the balance sheet is constructed, such through an active hedging programme as the requirement for us to include a risk within the fund.
54 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults margin.
The UK business assesses on a We retain revenues locally to support Collateral arrangements we have in continual basis the need for any derivatives the growth of our business and capital is place for derivative, secured lending in managing its interest rate sensitivity.
The held in the local currency of the business reverse repo and reinsurance withprofits business is exposed to interest to meet local regulatory and market transactions: rate risk because of underlying guarantees requirements.
We accept the foreign The Group Credit Risk Committees in some of its products.
Such risk is borne exchange risk this can produce when oversight of credit and counterparty largely by the withprofits fund itself but reporting our Group balance sheet and credit risk and sector and or name shareholder support may be required in income statement.
In cases where a surplus specific reviews.
In 2017 it has extreme circumstances where the fund has arises in an overseas operation which is to conducted sector reviews in the Asia insufficient resources to support the risk.
be used to support Group capital, or where sovereign sector, the UK banking a significant cash payment is due from an In Asia, our exposure to interest rate risk sector, the US retail property sector, overseas subsidiary to the Group, this arises from the guarantees of some non and continues to review the foreign exchange exposure is hedged unitlinked investment products.
This developments around central clearing: where we believe it is favourable exposure exists because it may not be economically to do so.
Generally, we do Regular deep dive assessments: and possible to hold assets which will provide not have appetite for significant direct cash payments to us which match exactly Close monitoring or restrictions on shareholder exposure to foreign exchange those payments we in turn need to make to investments that may be of concern.
risks in currencies outside of the countries policyholders this is known as an asset in which we operate, but we do have some Debt and loan portfolio and liability mismatch and although it is appetite for this on fee income and on Audited small and managed appropriately, it cannot nonsterling investments within the Our UK business is exposed mainly to be eliminated.
Where foreign exchange credit risk on fixed income assets in the Jackson is exposed to interest rate risk in risk arises outside our appetite, currency shareholderbacked portfolio.
At its fixed, fixed index and variable annuity borrowings, swaps and other derivatives 31 December 2017, this portfolio contained books.
Movements in interest rates can are used to manage our exposure.
fixed income assets worth 35.3 billion.
impact on the cost of guarantees in these Credit risk arising from a further Credit risk products: in particular the cost of 57.4 billion of fixed income assets is borne We invest in bonds that provide a regular, guarantees to us may increase when largely by the withprofits fund, to which fixed amount of interest income fixed interest rates fall.
We monitor the level of the shareholder is not exposed directly income assets in order to match the sales of variable annuity products with although under extreme circumstances payments we need to make to guaranteed living benefits actively, and shareholder support may be required if the policyholders.
We also enter into together with the risk limits we have in fund is unable to meet payments as they reinsurance and derivative contracts with place this helps us to ensure that we are fall due.
third parties to mitigate various types of comfortable with the interest rate and risk, as well as holding cash deposits at Credit risk also arises from the debt market risks we incur as a result.
As a result, we are exposed portfolio in our Asia business, the value of Jackson hedging programme includes to credit risk and counterparty risk across which was 41.0 billion at 31 December hybrid derivatives to provide some our business.
The majority 68 per cent of the protection from a combined fall in interest portfolio is in unitlinked and withprofits rates and equity markets since Jackson is Credit risk is the potential for reduction in funds and so exposure of the shareholder exposed to the combination of these the value of our investments which results to this component is minimal.
from the perceived level of risk of an remaining 32 per cent of the debt portfolio investment issuer being unable to meet its Foreign exchange risk is held to back the shareholder business.
Counterparty risk Audited is a type of credit risk and relates to the risk Credit risk also arises in the general The geographical diversity of our that the counterparty to any contract we account of the Jackson business, where businesses means that we have some enter into being unable to meet their 35.4 billion of fixed income assets are held exposure to the risk of exchange rate obligations causing us to suffer loss.
to support shareholder liabilities including fluctuations.
Our operations in the US and those from our fixed annuities, fixed index Asia, which represent a large proportion We use a number of risk management tools annuities and life insurance products.
of our operating profit and shareholders to manage and mitigate this credit risk, funds, generally write policies and invest including the following: The shareholderowned debt and loan in assets in local currencies.
Although this portfolio of the Groups other operations Our credit risk policy: limits the effect of exchange rate was 2.3 billion as at 31 December 2017. movements on local operating results, Risk appetite statements and limits Further details of the composition and it can lead to fluctuations in our Group that we have defined on issuers, and quality of our debt portfolio, and exposure financial statements when results are counterparties: to loans, can be found in the IFRS financial reported in UK sterling.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 55 Report on the risks facing our business and how these are managed continued Group sovereign debt Bank debt exposure and counterparty Shareholder exposure by rating Audited credit risk We also invest in bonds issued by national Audited 1 5 governments.
This sovereign debt Our exposure to banks is a key part of our 2 represented 19 per cent or 16.5 billion of core investment business, as well as being the shareholder debt portfolio as at important for the hedging and other 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: activities we undertake to manage our 19 per cent or 17.1 billion.
5 per cent of various financial risks.
Given the importance this was rated AAA and 90 per cent was of our relationship with our banks, exposure considered investment grade to the sector is considered a material risk 4 31 December 2016: 92 per cent for the Group with an appropriate level of investment grade.
management information provided to the Groups risk committees and the Board.
The particular risks associated with holding 3 sovereign debt are detailed further in our The exposures held by the shareholder disclosures on risk factors.
backed business and withprofits funds in bank debt securities at 31 December 2017 1 AAA 10% The exposures held by the shareholder 2 AA 27% are given in note C3.2 f of the Groups backed business and withprofits funds in IFRS financial statements.
3 A 32% sovereign debt securities at 31 December 4 BBB 26% 2017 are given in note C3.2 f of the Our exposure to derivative counterparty 5 BB or below or nonrated assets 5% Groups IFRS financial statements.
and reinsurance counterparty credit risk is managed using an array of risk management tools, including a comprehensive system of limits.
Where appropriate, we reduce our exposure, buy credit protection or use additional collateral arrangements to manage our levels of counterparty credit risk.
Shareholder exposure by sector At 31 December 2017, shareholder 1 exposures by rating and sector are 1 12 11 shown below: 10 9 95 per cent of the shareholder portfolio is investment grade rated.
In particular, 8 69 per cent of the portfolio is rated A 7 and above: and 2 6 The Groups shareholder portfolio is well diversified: no individual sector 5 makes up more than 10 per cent of the total portfolio excluding the financial and sovereign sectors.
4 3 1 Financial 22.43% 2 Government 26.23% 3 Real estate 9.80% 4 Utilities 7.66% 5 Consumer, noncyclical 7.87% 6 Mortgage securities 3.02% 7 Industrial 3.78% 8 Energy 4.01% 9 Communications 3.10% 10 Consumer, cyclical 2.46% 11 Assetbacked securities 3.25% 12 Other 6.39% 56 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Liquidity risk Regular stress testing: Using product repricing and other Our liquidity risk arises from the need to claims management initiatives in order Our established contingency plans have sufficient liquid assets to meet to mitigate medical expense inflation and identified sources of liquidity: policyholder and thirdparty payments as risk: and they fall due.
This incorporates the risk Our ability to access the money and Regular deep dive assessments.
arising from funds composed of illiquid debt capital markets: assets and results from a mismatch Longevity risk is an important element Regular deep dive assessments: and between the liquidity profile of assets and of our insurance risks for which we need liabilities.
Liquidity risk may impact on The access we have to external sources to hold a large amount of capital under market conditions and valuation of assets of finance through committed credit Solvency II regulations.
Longevity in a more uncertain way than for other risks facilities.
reinsurance is a key tool for us in managing like interest rate or credit risk.
The enhanced pensions freedoms Risks from our products for example, where external capital is introduced in the UK during 2015 reduced Insurance risk unavailable at sustainable cost, increased the demand for retail annuities greatly Insurance risk makes up a significant liquid assets are required to be held as and further liberalisation is anticipated.
proportion of our overall risk exposure.
The collateral under derivative transactions or Although we have withdrawn from selling profitability of our businesses depends on a redemption requests are made against new annuity business, given our significant mix of factors including levels of, and Prudential external funds.
annuity portfolio the assumptions we trends in, mortality policyholders dying, make about future rates of improvement We have significant internal sources of morbidity policyholders becoming ill and in mortality rates remain key to the liquidity, which are sufficient to meet all of policyholder behaviour variability in how measurement of our insurance liabilities our expected cash requirements for at least customers interact with their policies, and to our assessment of any reinsurance 12 months from the date the financial including utilisation of withdrawals, transactions.
statements are approved, without having takeup of options and guarantees and to resort to external sources of funding.
In We continue to conduct research into persistency, ie lapsing of policies, and total, the Group has 2.6 billion of undrawn longevity risk using both experience from increases in the costs of claims, including committed facilities that we can make use our annuity portfolio and industry data.
the level of medical expenses increases of, expiring in 2022.
We have access to Although the general consensus in recent over and above price inflation claim further liquidity by way of the debt capital years is that people are living longer, there inflation.
markets, and also have in place an extensive is considerable volatility in yearonyear The principal drivers of the Groups commercial paper programme and have longevity experience, which is why we insurance risks are persistency and maintained a consistent presence as an need expert judgement in setting our morbidity risk in the Asia business: issuer in this market for the last decade.
longevity risk in the UK legacy business Liquidity uses and sources are assessed Our morbidity risk is mitigated by of M&G Prudential: and policyholder at a Group and business unit level under appropriate underwriting when policies behaviour risks in Jackson.
both base case and stressed assumptions.
are issued and claims are received.
Our We manage and mitigate our insurance risk We calculate a Liquidity Coverage Ratio morbidity assumptions reflect our recent using the following: LCR under stress scenarios as one experience and expectation of future measure of our liquidity risk, and this ratio trends for each relevant line of business.
Our insurance and underwriting and the liquidity resources available to us risk policies: In Asia, we write significant volumes of are monitored regularly and are assessed health protection business, and so a key The risk appetite statements, limits to be sufficient.
assumption for us is the rate of medical and triggers we have in place: Our risk management and mitigation of inflation, which is often in excess of general Using longevity, morbidity and liquidity risk include: price inflation.
There is a risk that the persistency assumptions that reflect expenses of medical treatment increase Our liquidity risk policy: recent experience and expectation of more than we expect, so the medical claim future trends, and industry data and The risk appetite statements, limits cost passed on to us is higher than expert judgement where appropriate: and triggers that we have in place: anticipated.
Medical expense inflation risk is best mitigated by retaining the right to Using reinsurance to mitigate longevity The monitoring of liquidity risk we reprice our products each year and by and morbidity risks: perform through regular management having suitable overall claim limits within information to committees and Ensuring appropriate medical our policies, either limits per type of claim the Board: underwriting when policies are issued or in total across a policy.
and appropriate claims management Our Liquidity Risk Management Plan, practices when claims are received in which includes details of the Group order to mitigate morbidity risk: Liquidity Risk Framework as well as gap analysis of our liquidity risks and Maintaining the quality of our sales the adequacy of our available processes and using initiatives to liquidity resources under normal increase customer retention in order to and stressed conditions: mitigate persistency risk: www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 57 Report on the risks facing our business and how these are managed continued Our persistency assumptions reflect We process a large volume of complex The business environment we operate similarly a combination of recent past transactions across a number of diverse in has become increasingly complex over experience for each relevant line of products, and are subject to a high number the years.
The political, environmental, business and expert judgement, especially of varying legal, regulatory and tax societal, legal and economic landscape is where a lack of relevant and credible regimes.
We also have a number of highly dynamic and uncertain.
Any expected important thirdparty relationships that and developments on the horizon may change in future persistency is also provide the distribution and processing result in emerging risks to us which are reflected in the assumption.
Persistency of our products, both as market monitored under our Emerging Risk risk is mitigated by appropriate training counterparties and as outsourcing Framework.
and sales processes and managed locally partners.
M&G Prudential outsources The Group maintains active engagement postsale through regular experience several operations, including a significant with our shareholders, governments, monitoring and the identification of part of its back office, customerfacing policymakers and regulators in our key common characteristics of business with functions and a number of IT functions.
markets, as well as with international high lapse rates.
Where appropriate, we These thirdparty arrangements help us institutions.
This introduces expectations make allowance for the relationship either to provide a high level and costeffective for the Group to act and respond to assumed or observed historically between service to our customers, but they also environmental, social and governance persistency and investment returns and make us reliant on the operational ESG matters in a certain manner.
The account for the resulting additional risk.
performance of our outsourcing partners.
perception that our key stakeholders have Modelling this dynamic policyholder The performance of our core business of us and our businesses is crucial in behaviour is particularly important when activities places reliance on the IT forming and maintaining a robust brand assessing the likely takeup rate of options infrastructure that supports daytoday and reputation.
As such, the Groups embedded within certain products.
Our IT operational risk framework explicitly The effect of persistency on our financial environment must also be secure and incorporates ESG as a component of our results can vary but depends mostly on we address an increasing cyber risk threat social and environmental responsibility, the value of the product features and as our digital footprint increases see brand management and external market conditions.
separate Cyber risk section below.
The risk communications within our framework.
that our IT infrastructure does not meet This is further strengthened by factoring Risks from our business operations these requirements is a key area of focus considerations for reputational impacts Non-financial risks for us, particularly the risk that legacy when the materiality of operational risks In the course of doing business, the Group infrastructure supporting core activities are assessed.
is exposed to nonfinancial risks arising processes affects business continuity or from our operations, the business The climate risk landscape continues to impacts on business growth.
Our main evolve and is moving up the agenda of risks across these areas are detailed below.
Operational challenges also exist in many regulators, governments, non keeping pace with regulatory changes.
We define operational risk as the risk of loss This requires implementing processes Examples of this include the US or unintended gain or profit arising from to ensure we are, and remain, compliant Department of Labors decision to change inadequate or failed internal processes, on an ongoing basis, including regular its guidance to pension fund fiduciaries personnel or systems, or from external monitoring and reporting.
The high rate to allow them to factor ESG issues into events.
This includes employee error, of global regulatory change, in an already investment decisions: Hong Kong Stock model error, system failures, fraud or some complex regulatory landscape, increases Exchange listing rules requiring listed other event which disrupts business the risk of noncompliance due to a failure companies to provide a highlevel processes.
Processes are established for to identify, interpret correctly, implement discussion of ESG approaches and activities across the scope of our business, and or monitor regulatory compliance.
activities in external disclosures, and the including operational activity, regulatory See Global regulatory and political risk Financial Stability Boards FSB Task Force compliance, and those supporting section below.
Legislative developments for Climaterelated Financial Disclosures.
environmental, social and governance over recent years, together with enhanced ESG activities among others, any of which regulatory oversight and increased can expose us to operational risks.
capability to issue sanctions, have resulted in a complex regulatory environment that may lead to breaches of varying magnitude if the Groups businessasusual operations are not compliant.
As well as prudential regulation, we focus on conduct regulation, including those related to sales practice and antimoney laundering, bribery and corruption.
We have a particular focus on regulations related to the latter in newer emerging markets.
58 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults The increased regulatory focus on Implementation of the Groups strategy An internal incident capture process, environmental issues not only reflects and the need to comply with emerging which identifies, quantifies and existing commitments, for example in the regulation has resulted in a significant monitors remediation conducted UK under the 2008 Climate Change Act, portfolio of transformation and change through application of action plans for but also a heightened societal awareness initiatives, which may further increase in risk events that have occurred across of climate change as a pressing global the future.
In particular the intention to the business: concern.
Regulatory and stakeholder demerge the UK and Europe business A scenario analysis process for the interest in environmental matters is from the rest of the Group will result in a quantification of extreme, yet plausible expected to increase as climate change substantial change programme which will manifestations of key operational risks moves higher up governmental agendas.
need to be managed at the same time that across the business on a forward This increase in focus creates a number of other material transformation programmes looking basis.
This is carried out at least potential near term risks.
The scale and the annually and supports external and complexity of the transformation These include: internal capital requirements as well as programmes could impact business informing risk activity across Investment risk in the form of transition operations and customers, and has the the business: and risk.
This is the risk that an abrupt, potential for reputational damage if these unexpected tightening of carbon programmes fail to deliver their objectives.
An operational risk appetite framework emission policies lead to a disorderly Implementing further strategic initiatives that articulates the level of operational repricing of carbonintensive assets: may amplify these risks.
risk exposure the business is willing to tolerate and sets out escalation Liability risk, if the Group is unable to Other significant change initiatives are processes for breaches of appetite.
demonstrate sufficiently that we have occurring across the Group.
The volume, acted to mitigate our exposure to scale and complexity of these programmes Outputs from these processes and climate change risk: and increases the likelihood and potential activities performed by individual business impact of risks associated with: units are monitored by the Group Risk Reputational risks, where the Groups function, who provide an aggregated view actions could affect external perceptions Dependencies between multiple of risk profile across the business to the of our brand and corporate citizenship.
projects: Group Risk Committee and Board.
The Group has established a Groupwide The organisational ability to absorb These core framework components are Responsible Investment Advisory change being exceeded: embedded across the Group via the Group Committee with designated responsibility Unrealised business objectives Operational Risk Policy and Standards to oversee Prudentials responsible benefits: and documents, which sets out the key investment activities as both asset owners principles and minimum standards for and asset managers.
Failures in project design and execution.
the management of operational risk across Physical impacts of climate change could The risks detailed above form key elements the Group.
also arise, driven by specific climaterelated of the Groups operational risk profile.
The Group operational risk policy, events such as natural disasters.
These In order to effectively identify, assess, standards and operational risk appetite impacts are mitigated through our crisis manage, control and report on all framework sit alongside other risk policies management and disaster recovery plans.
operational risks across the business, and standards that individually engage a Groupwide operational risk framework Further information on the climate risks with key operational risks, including is in place.
The key components of the facing our business and how we are outsourcing and thirdparty supply, framework are: managing and responding to these can business continuity, technology and data, be found in the Corporate responsibility Application of a risk and control and operations processes.
review on page 77. assessment RCA process, where operational risk exposures are identified Strategic risk requires a forwardlooking and assessed as part of a periodical approach to risk management.
The RCA process takes into of our approach are the risk assessments account a range of internal and external performed as part of the Groups annual factors, including an assessment of strategic planning process, which supports the control environment, to determine the identification of potential future threats the businesss most significant risk and the initiatives needed to address them, exposures on a prospective basis: as well as competitive opportunities.
We also assess the impact on the Groups businesses and our risk profile to ensure that strategic initiatives are within the Groups overall risk appetite.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 59 Report on the risks facing our business and how these are managed continued These policies and standards include These activities are fundamental in On 29 March 2017 the UK submitted subject matter expertled processes that maintaining an effective system of internal formal notification of its intention to are designed to identify, assess, manage control, and as such outputs from these withdraw from the EU.
In December 2017, and control operational risks, including also inform core RCA, incident capture and agreement was reached between the UK the application of: scenario analysis processes and reporting and EU to progress negotiations onto on operational risk.
Furthermore, they also transitional arrangements and the future A transformation risk framework that ensure that operational risk considerations trading relationship.
The outcome of assesses, manages and reports on the are embedded in key business decision negotiations remains highly uncertain.
endtoend transformation lifecycle, making, including material business If no formal withdrawal agreement is project prioritisation and the risks, approvals and in setting and challenging reached then it is expected the UKs interdependencies and possible the Groups strategy.
membership of the EU will terminate conflicts arising from a large portfolio automatically two years after the of transformation activities: Global regulatory and political risk submission of the notification.
Our risk management and mitigation Internal and external review of cyber The ongoing uncertainty during the of regulatory and political risk includes security capability: remainder of the negotiation period and the following: Regular updating and testing of the potential for a disorderly exit from Risk Assessment of the Business elements of disasterrecovery plans and the EU by the UK without a negotiated Plan which includes consideration the Critical Incident Procedure process: agreement may increase volatility in the of current strategies: markets where we operate, creating the Group and business unitlevel potential for a general downturn in Close monitoring and assessment compliance oversight and testing in economic activity and for falls in interest of our business environment and respect of adherence with inforce rates in some jurisdictions due to easing strategic risks: regulations: of monetary policy and investor sentiment.
The consideration of risk themes Regulatory change teams in place assist As a Group, our diversification by in strategic decisions: and the business in proactively adapting geography, currency, product and and complying with regulatory Ongoing engagement with national distribution should reduce some of the developments: regulators, government policy teams potential impact.
We have UKdomiciled and international standard setters.
A framework in place for emerging risk operations including M&G Prudential, and identification and analysis in order to due to the geographical location of both its Recent shifts in the focus of some capture, monitor and allow us to prepare businesses and its customers, its insurance governments toward more protectionist for operational risks that may crystallise and the fund management operations have or restrictive economic and trade policies beyond the shortterm horizon: most potential to be affected by the UKs could impact on the degree and nature exit.
The extent of the impact will depend of regulatory changes and Prudentials Corporate insurance programmes to in part on the nature of the arrangements competitive position in some geographic limit the financial impact of operational that are put in place between the UK and markets.
This could take effect, for risks: and the EU.
Contingency plans were developed example, through increased friction in Reviews of key operational risks and ahead of the referendum by business units crossborder trade, capital controls or challenges within Group and business and operations that may be impacted measures favouring local enterprises such unit business plans.
immediately by a vote to withdraw the UK as changes to the maximum level of from the EU, and these plans have been nondomestic ownership by foreign enacted since the referendum result.
We continue to monitor these have since also undertaken significant work developments at a national and global level to ensure that our business, and in and these considerations form part of our particular our customer base, is not unduly ongoing engagement with government affected by the decision of the UK to exit policy teams and regulators.
60 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults The UKs decision to leave the EU has and is continuing to engage with the PRA In the US, some parts of the Department introduced uncertainty to the extent of on the implications of such measures of Labor DoL rule introducing fiduciary future applicability of the Solvency II regime and Prudentials designation as a GSII.
obligations for distributors of investment in the UK.
In October 2017, the Treasury The IAIS has launched a public interim products, which may reshape dramatically Committee published its report on the consultation on an activitiesbased the distribution of retirement products, Solvency II Directive and the UK Insurance approach to systemic risk.
Following the became effective on 9 June 2017.
This Industry, which highlighted the need for a feedback from this, a second consultation included those provisions on impartial strategy, postUK exit, to foster innovation, with proposals for policy measures is due conduct standards, although other competition and competitiveness for the to be launched in 2018.
Any changes to the provisions of the rule have now been benefit of UK consumers.
In late 2016 the designation methodology are expected to delayed until 1 July 2019.
Jackson has European Commission began a review of be implemented in 2019. introduced feebased variable annuity some aspects of the Solvency II legislation, products in response to the introduction We continue to engage with the IAIS on with a particular focus on the Solvency of the rule, and we anticipate that the developments in capital requirements for Capital Requirement calculated using the businesss strong relationships with groups with GSII designation.
The regime standard formula, which is expected to run distributors, history of product innovation introduces capital requirements in the form until 2021. and efficient operations should further of a Higher Loss Absorption HLA mitigate any impacts.
National and regional efforts to curb requirement.
This requirement was initially systemic risk and promote financial stability intended to come into force in 2019 but has The US National Association of Insurance are also underway in certain jurisdictions been postponed until 2022.
The HLA is also Commissioners NAIC is continuing its in which Prudential operates, including now intended to be based on the Insurance industry consultation with the aim of the DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and Capital Standard, which is being developed reducing the noneconomic volatility in the Consumer Protection Act in the US, the by the IAIS as the capital requirements variable annuity statutory balance sheet work of the Financial Stability Board FSB under its Common Framework and risk management.
Following two on Global Systemically Important Insurers ComFrame.
This framework is focused industry quantitative impact studies, GSIIs and the Insurance Capital Standard on the supervision of Internationally Active proposed changes to the current being developed by the International Insurance Groups IAIGs and will establish framework have been released by the Association of Insurance Supervisors a set of common principles and standards NAIC for comment from industry and other IAIS.
There are also a number of ongoing designed to assist regulators in addressing interested parties.
Jackson continues to be policy initiatives and regulatory risks that arise from insurance groups with engaged in the consultation and testing developments that are having, and will operations in multiple jurisdictions.
The proposed changes are continue to have, an impact on the way of this, work is underway to develop a expected to be effective from 2019 at the Prudential is supervised.
These include global Insurance Capital Standard ICS earliest.
In December 2017, the Tax Cuts addressing Financial Conduct Authority that is intended to apply to Internationally and Jobs Act was signed into law in the US.
FCA reviews, ongoing engagement with Active Insurance Groups.
Some uncertainty exists on the implications the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, of the tax reforms on the NAICs proposals.
The IAIS has announced that the and the work of the Financial Stability implementation of ICS will be conducted in A degree of uncertainty as to the timing, Board FSB and standardsetting two phases a fiveyear monitoring phase status and final scope of these key US institutions such as the IAIS.
Decisions followed by an implementation phase.
Our preparations to manage taken by regulators, including those related During the monitoring phase, IAIGs will be the impact of these reforms will continue to solvency requirements, corporate or required to report on ICS to the group while we await further clarification.
governance structures, capital allocation wide supervisor on a confidential basis, and risk management may have an impact In May 2017, the International Accounting although these results will not be used as on our business.
Standards Board IASB published IFRS 17 a basis to trigger supervisory action.
which will introduce fundamental changes The IAISs GSII regime forms additional The IAISs Insurance Core Principles, which to the statutory reporting of insurance compliance considerations for us.
provide a globallyaccepted framework for entities that prepare accounts according to Groups designated as GSIIs are subject the supervision of the insurance sector and IFRS from 2021.
The Group is reviewing to additional regulatory requirements, ComFrame evolution, are expected to the complex requirements of the standard including enhanced groupwide create continued development in both and is considering its potential impact.
This supervision, effective resolution planning, prudential and conduct regulations over is expected to, among other things, include development of a Systemic Risk the next two to three years.
altering the timing of IFRS profit Management Plan, a Recovery Plan and a recognition, and the implementation of the Liquidity Risk Management Plan.
The FSB standard is likely to require changes to the did not publish a new list of GSIIs in 2017, Groups IT, actuarial and finance systems.
however the policy measures set out in the FSBs 2016 communication on GSIIs continue to apply to the Group.
Prudential is monitoring the development and potential impact of the policy measures www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 61 Report on the risks facing our business and how these are managed continued In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing The core objectives of our Cyber Risk Viability statement prepared in at different speeds, driven by a Management Strategy are: to develop a accordance with the provision combination of global factors and local comprehensive situational awareness of C. 2.2 of the UK code considerations.
New local capital rules our business in cyberspace: to proactively The Groups longer-term prospects and requirements could be introduced in engage cyber attackers to minimise harm to The Groups strategy is based around these and other regulatory regimes that our business: and to enable the business to meeting the longterm savings and challenge legal or ownership structures, grow confidently and safely in cyberspace.
protection needs of its customers and current sales practices, or could be applied hence creating value for both customers Our Cyber Defence Plan consists of a to sales made prior to their introduction and shareholders over a time frame that number of workstreams, including retrospectively, which could have a can be many years.
As described on pages developing our ability to deal with negative impact on Prudentials business 12 to 13, the Groups business model incidents: alignment with our digital or reported results.
supports this strategy by constantly transformation strategy: and increasing evolving our products to meet changing cyber oversight and assurance to the Cyber risk customers needs, building out and Board.
We have made progress in all of Cyber risk remains an area of heightened diversifying distribution capabilities and these across 2017.
Protecting our focus after a number of recent high profile relationships to reach new customers and customers remains core to our business, attacks and data losses.
The growing investing in technology to better empower and the successful delivery of the Cyber maturity and industrialisation of cyber and serve the salesforce and customers.
Defence Plan will reinforce our capabilities criminal capability, together with an Examples of the actions undertaken during to continue doing so in cyberspace as we increasing level of understanding of 2017 are set out on pages 18 to 32.
This transition to a digital business.
complex financial transactions by criminal focus, together with our risk management groups, are two reasons why risks to the The Board receives periodic updates framework, supports the sustainability of financial services industry are increasing.
on cyber risk management throughout our business over the longer term.
Disruption to the availability, confidentiality the year, which includes assessments The Directors regularly consider strategic and integrity of our IT systems could make against the core objectives under our matters that may affect the longerterm it difficult to recover critical services, result Groupwide Cyber Risk Management prospects of the Group.
In performing in damage to assets and compromise the Strategy and progress updates on the this viability assessment, the Directors integrity and security of data.
This could associated Groupwide Coordinated considered the potential impact on the result in significant impacts to business Cyber Defence Plan.
viability of the Company and the Group of continuity, our customer relationship and Group functions work with each of the the announced intention to demerge the our brand reputation.
Developments in business units to address cyber risks locally Groups UK operations.
Further, the Group data protection worldwide such as the within the national and regional context as a whole and each of its life assurance EU General Data Protection Regulation of each business, following the strategic operations are subject to extensive that comes into force in May 2018 may direction laid out in the Cyber Risk regulation and supervision, which are increase the financial and reputational Management Strategy and managed designed primarily to reinforce the implications for Prudential of a breach of through the execution of the Cyber Companys management of its longterm its or thirdparty suppliers IT systems.
solvency, liquidity and viability to ensure Given this, cyber security is seen as a that it can continue to meet obligations to The Group Information Security key risk for the Group and is an area of policyholders.
Further details on the Committee, which consists of senior increased scrutiny by global regulators.
current capital strength of the Group are executives from each of the businesses The threat landscape is continuously provided on pages 48 to 63. and meets on a regular basis, governs evolving, and our assessment is that the the execution of the Cyber Defence Plan systemic risk from untargeted but Period of viability assessment and reports on delivery and cyber risks sophisticated and automated attacks has The Directors have assessed the viability to the Group Executive Risk Committee.
Cyber risks are also increasingly of the Company and the Group for a period Both committees also receive regular stemming from geopolitical tensions.
longer than the 12 months required by the operational management information going concern statement.
on the performance of controls.
62 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults The Directors performed the assessment To evaluate the Groups resilience to The Directors also considered the risks that by reference to the threeyear period to significant deteriorations in market and would arise from the proposed intention to December 2020.
Three years is considered credit conditions and other shock events, demerge M&G Prudential that could an appropriate period as it represents the these risks are grouped together into impact their assessment of the Groups period covered by the detailed business severe but plausible scenarios which are viability over the three years ended plan that is prepared annually on a rolling then applied to the assumptions underlying December 2020.
The assessment did not threeyear basis.
In approving the business the business plan.
For example, the change the Boards conclusion.
plan the Directors review the Groups impacts of scenarios assuming a disorderly Conclusion on viability projected performance with regards to transition to a more normalised interest rate Based on this assessment, the Directors profitability, cash generation and capital environment and an international recession have a reasonable expectation that the position, together with the parent were considered in the preparation of the Company and the Group will be able to companys liquidity over this threeyear most recent business plan, together with continue in operation and meet their period.
This projection involves setting the impact on Group liquidity of a scenario liabilities as they fall due over the three a number of economic and other assuming the closure of shortterm debt year plan period to December 2020. assumptions that are inherently volatile markets for three months.
In addition, over a much longer reporting period.
Such the Group conducts an annual reverse assumptions include foreign exchange stress test which gives the Directors an rates, interest rates, economic growth understanding of the maximum resilience rates and the impact on the business of the Group to extremely severe adverse environment for events such as the exit scenarios.
of the United Kingdom from the European The scenarios tested showed that the Union or changes in regulation.
Group would be able to maintain viability, over the threeyear period under Assessment of risks over the period assessment, after taking account of the The Groups business plan implements the actions available to management to Groups strategic objectives through the mitigate the impacts on capital and liquidity business model and activities discussed in such scenarios.
As noted above, underpinning the projections in the The impact on the business of known areas business plan are a number of economic of regulatory change whose financial and other assumptions.
Assessment of implications can be reasonably quantified the risks to achieving the projected is also considered as part of the plan.
performance therefore remains an integral As well as known areas of regulatory part of the planning process.
The Groups change the Group is exposed to the risk approach to risk management and a of sudden and unexpected changes in summary of the key risks facing the Group regulatory requirements at the Group and are set out on pages 48 to 63. local level.
While unexpected changes cannot be fully anticipated and hence For the purposes of assessing the Groups modelled, the risk of regulatory change is viability, the Directors considered those mitigated by capital held by the Group and risks where the impact of possible adverse its subsidiaries in excess of Group and local external developments could be of such regulatory requirements, the Groups speed and severity to present a shock to ability to generate significant capital the Groups financial position.
The risks annually through its operational delivery further considered, from those detailed and the availability of compensating on page 53, are: market risk, credit risk, actions designed to restore key capital liquidity risk and regulatory risk.
Note 1 Based on hierarchy of Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch, where available and if unavailable, internal ratings have been used.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 63
