Mondi Group 220 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Shareholder information Mondi has a dual listed company DLC structure comprising Mondi Limited, a company registered in South Africa and Mondi plc, a company registered in the UK.
Mondi Limited has a primary listing on the JSE Limited while Mondi plc has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and a secondary listing on the JSE Limited.
Under the DLC structure any ordinary share held in either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc gives the holder an effective economic interest in the whole Mondi Group.
The relationship between Mondi Limited and Mondi plc is underpinned by the DLC structure principles, which provide that: e Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and their subsidiaries must operate as if they are a single corporate group: and e the directors of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc will, in addition to their duties to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of the Mondi Limited shareholders and the Mondi plc shareholders as if the two companies were a single unified economic enterprise and for that purpose the directors of each company will take into account, in the exercise of their powers, the interests of the shareholders of the other.
Financial calendar 16 May 2018 2018 Annual General Meetings 16 May 2018 Trading update 25 May 2018 Payment date for 2017 final ordinary and special dividends see below 3 August 2018 2018 half-yearly results announcement September 2018 2018 interim dividend payment 11 October 2018 Trading update Analysis of shareholders As at 31 December 2017 Mondi Limited had 118,312,975 ordinary shares in issue and Mondi plc had 367,240,805 ordinary shares in issue, of which 87,887,964 were held on the South African branch register.
2 Shares held for the purposes of Mondi staff share schemes are held in trust.
Managing your shares Registrars To manage your shares or if you have any queries, please contact the relevant Registrar: Mondi Limited shares and Mondi plc shares on the South African branch register Mondi plc shares on the UK register Registrar Link Market Services South Africa Proprietary Limited Link Asset Services Link Market Services Postal address PO Box 4844 The Registry Johannesburg, 2000 34 Beckenham Road South Africa Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU UK Helpline number 011 713 0800 0871 664 0300 if calling from South Africa if calling from the UK: calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge: lines are 27 11 713 0800 open Monday to Friday between 9:00am to 5:30pm if calling from outside South Africa excluding public holidays in England and Wales 44 371 664 0300 if calling from outside the UK: calls will be charged at the applicable international rate Email info@linkmarketservices.
co. uk Online Not available www.
com Sign up to email communications Many of our shareholders choose to receive shareholder information electronically rather than by post.
Benefits include faster notification of shareholder information, reduced costs and being more environmentally friendly.
Mondi plc shareholders on the UK register can sign up to email communications by contacting Link Asset Services or via their online portal, Signal Shares.
Mondi Group 222 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Shareholder information Mondi Limited shareholders and Mondi plc shareholders on the South African branch register holding their shares in certificated form can sign up to email communications by contacting Link Market Services or by emailing corpactfax@linkmarketservices.
Mondi Limited shareholders and Mondi plc shareholders on the South African branch register with dematerialised shares should contact their Central Securities Depository Participant CSDP or broker.
You will be notified by email each time new financial reports, notices of shareholder meetings and other shareholder communications are published on our website at: www.
Manage your shares online Mondi plc shareholders on the UK register can sign up to Signal Shares, a free secure online site provided by Link Asset Services, where you can manage your shareholding quickly and easily.
You can: e View your holding and get an indicative valuation e Make dividend payment choices e Change your address e Buy and sell shares and access stock market news and information e Arrange to have dividends paid into your bank account e Register your proxy voting instruction e Request to receive shareholder communications by email rather than post e Download a Stock Transfer form e View your dividend payment history To register for Signal Shares just visit www.
All you need is your investor code which can be found on your share certificate, dividend confirmation or proxy form.
Dividends A proposed final ordinary dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 42.90 euro cents per ordinary share will be paid to Mondi plc shareholders and an equivalent South African rand final ordinary dividend will be paid to Mondi Limited shareholders in accordance with the below timetable.
Also in accordance with the below timetable, a proposed special dividend of 100 euro cents per ordinary share will be paid to Mondi plc shareholders and an equivalent South African rand special dividend will be paid to Mondi Limited shareholders.
Payment of the final ordinary and special dividends is subject to the approval of the shareholders of Mondi plc and Mondi Limited at the respective Annual General Meetings scheduled for 16 May 2018.
Mondi Limited Mondi plc Last date to trade shares cum-dividend JSE Limited 30 April 2018 30 April 2018 London Stock Exchange Not applicable 2 May 2018 Shares commence trading ex-dividend JSE Limited 2 May 2018 2 May 2018 London Stock Exchange Not applicable 3 May 2018 Record date JSE Limited 4 May 2018 4 May 2018 London Stock Exchange Not applicable 4 May 2018 Last date for receipt of Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP elections byCentralSecurities Depository Participants 10 May 2018 10 May 2018 Last date for DRIP elections to UK Registrar and South African Transfer 1 Secretaries by shareholders of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc 11 May 2018 4 May 2018 Payment date South African Register 25 May 2018 25 May 2018 UK Register Not applicable 25 May 2018 DRIP purchase settlement dates 2 subject to the purchase of shares in the openmarket 31 May 2018 29 May 2018 Currency conversion dates ZAR euro 2 March 2018 2 March 2018 Euro sterling Not applicable 8 May 2018 1 11 May 2018 for Mondi plc South African branch register shareholders.
2 31 May 2018 for Mondi plc South African branch register shareholders.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 223 Share certificates on the South African registers of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc may not be dematerialised or rematerialised between 2 May 2018 and 6 May 2018, both dates inclusive, nor may transfers between the UK and South African registers of Mondi plc take place between 25 April 2018 and 7 May 2018, both dates inclusive.
Dividend tax will be withheld from the amount of the gross final ordinary and special dividends paid to Mondi Limited shareholders and Mondi plc shareholders on the South African branch register at the rate of 20%, unless a shareholder qualifies for an exemption.
Your dividend currency All dividends are declared in euro but are paid in the following currencies: Mondi Limited South African rand Mondi plc euro Mondi plc UK residents pounds sterling Mondi plc South African residents South African rand e Mondi plc shareholders on the UK register resident in the UK may elect to receive their dividends in euro e Mondi plc shareholders on the UK register resident outside the UK may elect to receive their dividends in pounds sterling Mondi plc shareholders on the UK register wishing to elect to receive their dividends in an alternative currency should contact Link Asset Services in the UK using the details provided.
Payment of your dividends Mondi encourages shareholders to have their dividends paid directly into their bank accounts.
This means that the dividend will reach yourbank account more securely and on the payment date without the inconvenience of depositing a cheque.
Mondi Limited shareholders and Mondi plc shareholders on the South African branch register e Shareholders with a South African bank account can elect to receive dividends directly into their bank account by contacting Link Market Services.
e Shareholders without a South African bank account are encouraged to dematerialise their shares with a CSDP in South Africa as a CSDP is often able to pay dividends into foreign bank accounts.
Find out more by contacting Link Market Services or any CSDP.
Mondi plc shareholders on the UK register e Shareholders with a UK bank account can elect to receive dividends directly into their bank account via Signal Shares or by contacting Link Asset Services.
e Shareholders without a UK bank account may be able to take advantage of the International Payment Service offered by Link Asset Services.
Find out more via Signal Shares or by contacting Link Asset Services.
Reinvest your dividends The dividend reinvestment plans DRIPs provide an opportunity for shareholders to have their Mondi Limited and Mondi plc cash dividends reinvested in Mondi Limited and Mondi plc ordinary shares respectively.
The plans are available to all Mondi Limited and Mondi plc ordinary shareholders excluding those in certain restricted jurisdictions.
If you wish to participate in the DRIPs you can sign up via Signal Shares or by contacting either Link Market Services in South Africa or Link Asset Services in the UK as appropriate.
South African dematerialisation Mondi encourages Mondi Limited shareholders and Mondi plc shareholders on the South African branch register to consider dematerialising their shares.
By surrendering your share certificate, you will hold your shares electronically with a CSDP in South Africa.
Holding shares electronically can help to prevent share fraud, theft and loss of share certificates.
Once dematerialised, your dividends canbe paid directly into a bank account and your shares will be easier to sell.
Taxation Mondi is unable to advise shareholders on taxation.
Your tax obligations will vary depending on your jurisdiction and financial circumstances.
With regard to your Mondi shareholding, we recommend all shareholders maintain records of dividend payments, share purchases and sales.
A dividend confirmation will be sent with all dividend payments.
For further assistance, please speak to anindependent professional tax or financial adviser.
Mondi Group 224 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Shareholder information Donating shares to charity If you have a small number of shares which would cost you more to sell than they are worth, there is the option to donate these unwanted shares to charity free of charge.
These shares are then aggregated, sold and the proceeds distributed to various charities.
Donate your shares or find out more using the relevant contact details below: Mondi Limited shares or Mondi plc shares Mondi plc shares on the South African branch register on the UK register Strate Charity Shares ShareGift Postal address PO Box 78608 PO Box 72253 Sandton, 2146 London South Africa SW1P 9LQ UK Helpline number 0800 202 363 44 0 20 7930 3737 if calling from South Africa 27 11 870 8207 if calling from outside South Africa Email charityshares@computershare.
org Fraud Shareholders should be aware that they may be targeted by certain organisations offering unsolicited investment advice or the opportunity to buy or sell worthless or non-existent shares.
Should you receive any unsolicited calls or documents to this effect, you are advised not to give out any personal details or to hand over any money without ensuring that the organisation is authorised by the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA and doing further research.
If you are unsure or think you may have been targeted you should report the organisation to the FCA.
For further information, please visit the FCAs website at www.
uk or call the FCA consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768 if calling from the UK or 44 20 7066 1000 if calling from outside the UK.
Shareholders can also contact Link Asset Services in the UK, Link Market Services in South Africa or Mondis company secretarial department on 44 0 1932 826300.
Account amalgamations If you receive more than one copy of any documents sent out by Mondi or for any other reason you believe you may have more than one Mondi Limited or Mondi plc account, please contact the relevant Registrar who will be able to confirm and, if necessary, arrange for the accounts to be amalgamated into one.
Alternative formats If you would like to receive this report in an alternative format, such as in large print, Braille or in audio format, please contact Mondis company secretarial department on 44 0 1932 826300.
Mondi Limited Mondi plc Registered and head office Registered office th st 4 Floor Building 1, 1 Floor No.
3 Melrose Boulevard Aviator Park Melrose Arch 2196 Station Road Gauteng Addlestone Republic of South Africa Surrey KT15 2PG Tel.
44 0 1932 826300 Registered in South Africa Fax.
1967 013038 06 Registered in England and Wales Registered No.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Glossary of terms In addition to the terms explained below, the Group presents certain financial measures that are not defined or specified according to IFRS.
These measures, referred to as APMs, are defined in note 33 in the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements.
CoC Specific Chain-of-Custody is a tracking system Figures reported in specific terms are that allows manufacturers and traders normalised to saleable production tonnes.
to demonstrate that timber comes from Sustainable Development Goals a forest that is responsibly managed in SDGs accordance with credible standards.
The UN Sustainable Development COD Goals were launched in 2015, involving Chemical oxygen demand is a measure a comprehensive, far-reaching and of the oxygen consuming capacity of people-centred set of 17 universal and inorganic and organic matter present transformative goals and 169 targets.
It is a metric for They are integrated and indivisible, and will emissions to water and is measured stimulate action over the next years until in tonnes.
2030 in areas of critical importance for humanity and the planet: people, planet, FSC prosperity, peace and partnerships.
Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an international not-for-profit, multiTRCR stakeholder organisation established Total recordable case rate TRCR is in 1993 to promote socially and calculated as the number of total recordable environmentally responsible management cases the sum of fatalities, lost-time injuries, of the worlds forests by way of standard restricted work cases, medical treatment setting, third-party certification and cases and compensated occupational labelling of forest products.
illnesses divided by the number of hours worked per 200,000 man hours.
GHG and CO e 2 Greenhouse gases GHG are gases listed TRS in the Kyoto Protocol of the United Nations Total reduced sulphur compounds, Framework Convention on Climate generated in the pulping process, and Change UN-FCCC that contribute to a source of emissions to air measured the greenhouse effect and are regulated in tonnes.
We convert nonUnited Nations Global Compact CO GHGs such as CH or N O into 2 4 2 UNGC an amount of CO with an equivalent 2 UNGC is a strategic policy initiative for warming potential.
Total GHG emissions businesses that are committed to aligning are the sum of the equivalent amount of their operations and strategies with 10 CO for each GHG, abbreviated as CO e. 2 2 universally accepted principles in the areas GRI of human rights, labour, environment and The Global Reporting Initiative GRI is a anti-corruption.
not-for-profit organisation that produces one of the worlds most prevalent frameworks for sustainability reporting.
PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC is an international not-for-profit non-government organisation dedicated to promoting sustainable forest management through independent thirdparty certification.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Mondi investor relations team st Building 1, 1 floor, Aviator Park Station Road, Addlestone Surrey KT15 2PG, UK 44 1932 826 300 www.
com Our 2017 suite of reports Please visit our Group website where copies of our reports can be downloaded: www.
com investors reports17 Integrated report and Partnering for change: Online Sustainable financial statements 2017 Sustainable development 2017 development report 2017 A comprehensive view of A balanced overview of Mondis A printed publication looking at our approach to sustainable performance in 2017 and insight how were using our Growing development and our performance into how our approach to strategy, Responsibly model to deliver in 2017, prepared in accordance governance, people and meaningful improvements across with the GRI G4 Core guidelines.
performance combine to generate some of the aspects of sustainability Available online as an interactive value in a sustainable way.
that are more relevant for our Printed on certified Mondi PERGRAPHICA pdf at www.
com sd17 Also available online at business and our stakeholders.
Classic Rough in 300gsm, 150gsm and 90gsm www.
com ir17 Also available online at www.
com sdpublication17 Printing: CPI Colour | www.
co. uk Design and production: Radley Yeldar | www.
