NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2017 1 Introduction Principal activity.
JSC TBC Bank hereafter the Bank was incorporated on 17 December 1992 and is domiciled in Georgia.
The Bank is a joint stock company limited by shares and was set up in accordance with Georgian regulations.
The Banks principal business activity is universal banking operations that include corporate, small and medium enterprises SME, retail and micro operations within Georgia.
The Bank has been operating since 20 January 1993 under a general banking license issued by the National Bank of the Georgia NBG.
The Banks registered address and place of business is 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102 Tbilisi, Georgia.
During 2016 the Bank acquired JSC Bank Republic, which had 41 branches as of 31 December 2016 not included in number of branches above.
On 1 June 2016, TBC Bank Group PLC TBCG, a public limited liability company, incorporated in England and Wales on 26 February 2016, launched the Tender Offer the Tender Offer to exchange its entire ordinary share capital for an equivalent number of the Banks ordinary shares and thus to acquire the entire issued share capital, including those shares represented by Global Depositary Receipts GDRs, of the Bank.
Following the successful completion of the Tender Offer on 4 August 2016, as of 31 December 2017 TBCG holds 98.67% of the share capital of the Bank, thus representing the Banks ultimate parent company.
Together with the Bank and subsidiaries, TBCG makes up a group of companies hereafter the Group.
The Bank is a parent of a group of companies incorporated in Georgia and Azerbaijan, their primary business activities include providing banking, leasing, brokerage and card processing services to corporate and individual customers.
The Groups list ofcompanies is provided in Note 2.
The shares of TBCG TBCG Shares were admitted to thePremium Listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange PLCs Main Market for listed securities effective on 10 August 2016 the Admission, Note25.
The Bank is theGroups main operating unit and it accounts for most of the Groups activities.
TBC Bank Group PLCs registered legal address is 6 St. Andrew Street, London, United Kingdom EC4A3AE.
Registered number of TBC Group PLC is 10029943.
As of 31 December 2017, 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, the following shareholders directly owned more than 5% of the total outstanding shares of the Group.
Other shareholders individually owned less than 5% of the outstanding shares.
As of 31 December 2017, 31December 2016 and 31 December 2015 the Group had no ultimate controlling party.
% of ownership interest held as of 31 December Shareholders Note 2017 2016 2015 TBC Holdings LTD 15.19% 15.99% Schroder Investment Management 9.53% 7.98% JPMorgan Asset Management 9.21% 7.07% European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 8.38% 12.15% Mamuka Khazaradze 6.35% Badri Japaridze 6.23% Liquid Crystal International N. V. LLC 5.78% 5.19% 5.46% Societe Generale SA - 5.38% - Bank of New York Nominees, Limited 25 - - 70.62% Other 54.52% 47.04% 7.93% Total 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Represents direct ownership of the shares for Mamuka Khazaradze and Badri Japaridze.
Mamuka Khazaradze has beneficial ownership of 13.87% and Badri Japaridze has beneficial ownership of 6.93%, the some of which were held through TBC holding LTD in prior years.
In 2015 all GDR holders interests were held through Bank of New York Nominees, Limited the custodian.
Other includes individual as well as corporate shareholders.
As a result of the conversion of the Banks shares into TBCG shares as described above and following the cancellation ofGDR Programme in October 2016, the Group has no GDRs outstanding as of 31 December 2017.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in thousands of Georgian Lari GEL thousands, except per-share amounts and unless otherwise indicated.
2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of preparation.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the separate financial statements have been prepared of TBC Bank Group PLC.
In accordance with the exemption permitted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the standalone statement of comprehensive income of TBCG is not presented as part of these accounts.
These consolidated financial statements are prepared as if the Group is a continuation of the pre-existing group of companies with the Bank as its ultimate parent.
Comparative financial statements as of 31 December 2015 are those of the group of companies consolidated, with the Bank as its ultimate parent.
170 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of TBC Bank Group PLC, have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of premises, available-for-sale financial assets, the initial recognition of financial instruments based on fair value and identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination measured at their fair values at the acquisition date and financial instruments categorised as at fair value through profit or loss.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated and separate financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated refer to Note 3.
The Board of Directors of TBC Bank Group PLC has prepared these financial statements on a going concern basis.
In making this judgement the management considered the Groups financial position, current intentions, profitability of operations and access to financial resources.
The management is not aware of any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt upon the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Subsidiaries are those investees, including structured entities, that the Group controls because it i has power to direct relevant activities of the investees that significantly affect their returns, ii has exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investees, and iii has the ability to use its power over the investees to affect the amount of investors returns.
The existence and effect of substantive rights, including substantive potential voting rights, are considered when assessing whether the Group has power over another entity.
For a right to be substantive, the holder must have practical ability to exercise that right when decisions about the direction of the relevant activities of the investee need to be made.
The Group may have power over an investee even when it holds less than the majority of voting power in it.
In such a case, the Group assesses the size of its voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders to determine if it has fide-facto power over the investee.
Protective rights of other investors, such as those that relate to fundamental changes of investees activities or apply only in exceptional circumstances, do not prevent the Group from controlling an investee.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group, and are deconsolidatedfrom the date on which control ceases.
The TBC Bank Group PCL holds 98.67% of the Bank as of 31 December 2017.
The consolidated financial statements include the following principal subsidiaries: Proportion of voting rights and ordinary share Principal place of capital held as of 31 December business or Year of Company Name 2017 2016 2015 incorporationincorpo ration Industry JSC TBC Bank 98.67% 98.48% Tbilisi, Georgia 1992 Banking Bank Republic Group 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 1992 Banking Ltd Merckhali Pirevli 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2009 Operating leasing United Financial Corporation JSC 98.67% 98.67% 98.67% Tbilisi, Georgia 1997 Card processing TBC Capital LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 1999 Brokerage TBC Leasing JSC 99.61% 99.61% 99.57% Tbilisi, Georgia 2003 Leasing TBC Kredit LLC 75.00% 75.00% 75.00% Baku, Azerbaijan 1999 Non-banking credit institution Banking System Service Company LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2009 Information services TBC Pay LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2009 Processing Real Estate Management Fund JSC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2010 Real estate management TBC Invest LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Ramat Gan, Israel 2011 PR and marketing Mali LLC 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2011 Real estate management JSC TBC Insurance 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2014 Insurance The consolidated financial statements include the following associates: Proportion of voting rights and ordinary share Principal place of capital held as of 31 December business or Year of Company Name 2017 2016 2015 incorporationincorpo ration Industry JSC CreditInfo Georgia 21.08% Tbilisi, Georgia 2005 Financial intermediation LLC Online Tickets 26.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2015 Computer and Software Services The country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries.
On 6 May 2017 the Group has completed the legal and operational process of merging JSC Bank Republic with TBC Bank.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 171 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued The Groups corporate structure consists of a number of related undertakings, comprising subsidiaries and associates, which are not consolidated or equity accounted due to immateriality.
A full list of these undertakings, the country of incorporation and the ownership of each 1 share class is set out below.
Proportion of voting rights and ordinary share capital held as of 31 December Principal place of business or Year of Company Name 2017 2016 2015 incorporationincorpo ration Industry UFC International Ltd 80.00% 80.00% 80.00% British Virgin Islands 2001 Investment Vehicle TBC Capital B. V. 90.00% 90.00% 90.00% Amsterdam, Netherlands 2007 Investment Vehicle TBC Invest International Ltd 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2016 Investment Vehicle University Development Fund 33.33% 33.33% 33.33% Tbilisi, Georgia 2007 Education Ltd Georgian Mill Company 100.00% 100.00% Tbilisi, Georgia 2010 Manufacturing Business Combinations and Goodwill.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration, including contingent consideration, given at the date of exchange.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest.
The Group measures the non-controlling interest that represents the current ownerships interest and entitles the holder to a proportionate share of net assets in the event of liquidation on a transaction by transaction basis, either at: a fair value, or b the non-controlling interests proportionate share of net assets of the acquired entity.
Non-controlling interests that are not present ownership interests are measured at fair value.
Goodwill is measured by deducting the acquirees net assets from the aggregate of the consideration transferred for the acquiree, the amount of non-controlling interest in the acquiree and fair value of an interest in the acquiree held immediately before the acquisition date.
Any negative amount negative goodwill is recognised in profit or loss, after the management reassesses whether it identified all the assets acquired and all liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, and reviews appropriateness of their measurement.
The consideration transferred for the acquiree is measured at the fair value of the assets given up, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed, including fair value of assets or liabilities from contingent consideration arrangements, but excludes acquisition related costs such as advisory, legal, valuation and similar professional services.
Transaction costs incurred for issuing equity instruments are deducted from the equity: transaction costs incurred for issuing debt are deducted from its carrying amount and all other transaction costs associated with the acquisition are expensed.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the cost cannot be recovered.
The Bank and all of its subsidiaries use uniform accounting policies consistent with the Groups policies.
Non-controlling interest is that part of the net results and of the equity of a subsidiary attributable to interests that are not owned, directly or indirectly, by the Bank.
Non-controlling interest forms a separate component of the Groups equity.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence directly or indirectly, but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20 and 50 percent of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, and are initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition less accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Dividends received from associates reduce the carrying value of the investments in associates.
Other post-acquisition changes in Groups share of net assets of an associate are recognised as follows: i the Groups share of profits or losses of associates is recorded in the consolidated profit or loss for the year as share of result of associates, ii the Groups share of other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented separately, iii : all other changes in the Groups share of the carrying value of net assets of associates are recognised in profit or loss within the share of result of associates.
However, when the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
172 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Disposals of subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recycled to profit or loss.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
Financial instruments key measurement terms.
Depending on their classification financial instruments are carried at fair value, cost, or amortised cost as described below.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The best evidence of fair value is the price in an active market.
An active market is one in which transactions for the asset or the liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in an active market is measured as the product of the quoted price for the individual asset or liability and the quantity owned by the entity.
This is the case even if a markets normal daily trading volume is not sufficient to absorb the quantity held and placing orders to sell the position in a single transaction might affect the quoted price.
A portfolio of financial derivatives or other financial assets and liabilities that are not traded in an active market is measured at the fair value of a group of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of the price that would be received to sell a net long position ie an asset for a particular risk exposure or paid to transfer a net short position ie a liability for a particular risk exposure in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
This is applicable for assets carried at fair value on a recurring basis in case the Group: a manages the group of financial assets and financial liabilities on the basis of the entitys net exposure to a particular market risk or risks or to the credit risk of a particular counterparty in accordance with the entitys documented risk management or investment strategy: b it provides information on that basis about the group of assets and liabilities to the entitys key management personnel: and c the market risks, including duration of the entitys exposure to a particular market risk or risks arising from the financial assets and financial liabilities is substantially the same.
Valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow models or models based on recent arms length transactions or consideration of financial data of the investees are used to measure the fair value of certain financial instruments for which external market pricing information is not available.
Fair value measurements are analysed by level in the fair value hierarchy as follows: i level one are measurements at quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities, ii level two measurements are valuations techniques with all material inputs observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices, and iii level three measurements are valuations not solely based on observable market data that is, the measurement requires significant unobservable inputs.
Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to have occurred at the end of the reporting period.
Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of the other consideration given to acquire an asset at the time of its acquisition and includes transaction costs.
Measurement at cost is only applicable to investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured and derivatives that are linked to and must be settled by the delivery of such unquoted equity instruments.
Transaction costs are incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial instrument.
An incremental cost is one that would not have incurred if the transaction had not taken place.
Transaction costs include fees and commissions paid to agents including employees acting as selling agents, advisors, brokers and dealers, levies by regulatory agencies and securities exchanges, and transfer taxes and duties.
Transaction costs do not include debt premiums or discounts, financing costs or internal administrative or holding costs.
Amortised cost is the amount at which the financial instrument was recognised at initial recognition less any principal repayments, plus accrued interest, and for financial assets less any write-down for incurred impairment losses.
Accrued interest includes the amortisation of transaction costs deferred at initial recognition and of any premium or discount to maturity amount using the effective interest method.
Accrued interest income and accrued interest expense, including both accrued coupon and amortised discount or premium including fees deferred at origination, if any, are not presented separately and are included in the carrying values of related items in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The effective interest method is a method of allocating interest income or interest expense over the relevant period so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest effective interest rate on the carrying amount.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts excluding future credit losses through the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, if appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial instrument.
The effective interest rate discounts cash flows of variable interest instruments to the next interest repricing date, except for the premium or discount which reflects the credit spread over the floating rate specified in the instrument, or other variables that are not reset to market rates.
Such premiums or discounts are amortised over the whole expected life of the instrument.
The present value calculation includes all fees paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate refer to income and expense recognition policy.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 173 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Initial recognition of financial instruments.
Trading securities, derivatives and other financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are initially recorded at fair value.
All other financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus the transaction costs.
Fair value at initial recognition is best evidenced by the transaction price.
A gain or a loss on initial recognition is only recorded if there is a difference between the fair value and the transaction price which can be evidenced by other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or by a valuation technique whose inputs include only data from observable markets.
All purchases and sales of financial assets that require delivery within the time frame set by regulation or market convention regular way purchases and sales are recorded at trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to deliver a financial asset.
All other purchases are recognised when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises financial assets when a the assets are redeemed or the rights to cash flows from the assets otherwise expired or b the Group has transferred the rights to the cash flows from the financial assets or entered into a qualifying pass-through arrangement while i also transferring substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets or ii neither transferring nor retaining substantially all risks and rewards of ownership but not retaining control.
Control is retained if the counterparty does not have the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party without needing to impose additional restrictions on the sale.
Cash and cash equivalents are items which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from the National Bank of Georgia NBG, excluding mandatory reserves, and all interbank placements and interbank receivables with original maturities of less than three months.
Funds restricted for a period of more than three months on origination are excluded from cash and cash equivalents.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried at amortised cost.
The payments or receipts presented in the statement of cash flows represent the Groups transfers of cash and cash equivalents, including amounts charged or credited to current accounts of the Groups counterparties held with the Group, such as loan interest income or principal collected by charging the customers current account or interest payments or disbursement of loans credited to the customers current account, which represent cash or cash equivalent from the customers perspective.
Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia.
Mandatory cash balances with the NBG are carried at amortised cost and represent mandatory reserve deposits that are not available to finance the Groups day to day operations.
Hence they are not considered as part of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Investment securities available for sale.
This classification includes investment securities which the Group intends to hold for an indefinite period of time and which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
The Group classifies investments as available for sale at the time of purchase.
Investment securities available for sale are carried at fair value.
Interest income on available for sale debt securities is calculated using the effective interest method and recognised in profit or loss for the year.
Dividends on available for sale equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss for the year when the Groups right to receive payment is established and it is probable that the dividends will be collected.
All other elements of changes in the fair value are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income OCI until the investment is derecognised or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from OCI to profit or loss.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss when incurred as a result of one or more events loss events arising after the initial recognition of investment securities available for sale.
Asignificant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an equity security below its cost is an indicator that it is impaired.
The cumulative impairment loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and reclassified from OCI.
Impairment losses on equity instruments are not reversed through profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the current periods profit or loss for the year.
Sale and repurchase agreements repo agreements, which effectively provide a lenders return to the counterparty, are treated as secured financing transactions.
The lender provides funds to the borrower and receives security as collateral.
Securities sold under such sale and repurchase agreements are not derecognised.
The securities are not reclassified in the statement of financial position unless the transferee has, by contract, the right or custom to sell or repledge the securities, in which case they are reclassified as repurchase receivables.
The corresponding liability is presented within amounts due to credit institutions.
The repurchase agreements are short-term in nature.
Available for sale securities or bonds carried at amortised cost reclassified to repurchase receivables continue to be carried at fair value or amortised cost respectively in accordance with the accounting policies for these categories of assets.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell reverse repo agreements, which effectively provide a lenders return to the Group, are recorded as due from other banks or loans and advances to customers, as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest income and accrued over the life of repo agreements using the effective interest rate method.
174 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Due from other banks.
Amounts due from other banks are recorded when the Group advances money to counterparty banks with original maturity of more than three months and with no intention of trading the resulting unquoted non-derivative receivable due on fixed or determinable dates.
Amounts due from other banks are carried at amortised cost.
Loans and advances to customers.
Loans and advances to customers are recorded when the Group advances money to purchase or originate an unquoted non-derivative receivable from a customer due on fixed or determinable dates and has no intention of trading the receivable.
Loans and advances to customers are carried at amortised cost.
When financial assets are renegotiated and the renegotiated terms and conditions differ substantially from the previous terms, financial asset is derecognised and the new asset is initially recognised at its fair value.
Bonds carried at amortised cost.
Investment securities that the Group intends to hold for an indefinite period and that may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices have been classified as available for sale investments in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
In 2015 the Group has reassessed its intention with regard to some of the securities under this category and has identified certain investments that the Group has both the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Due to the fact that transactions for such securities do not take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis the securities are not considered to be quoted in an active market and were reclassified to loans and receivables rather than held to maturity investments.
These securities are presented in the balance sheet under caption bonds carried at amortised cost.
When an available for sale financial asset with fixed maturity is reclassified to loans and receivables, the fair value of the financial asset on that date becomes its new amortised cost.
Any previous gain or loss on that asset that has been recognised directly in other comprehensive income is amortised to profit and loss over the investments remaining life using the effective interest method.
Impairment of financial assets carried at amortised cost.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss when incurred as a result of one or more events loss events that happened after the initial recognition of the financial asset and which have an impact on the amount or timing of the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
The Group classifies its borrowers as significant and non-significant ones for impairment allowance estimation purposes and assesses for impairment individually or collectively.
Specific qualitative and quantitative events are outlined for evidence of impairment of individually and collectively assessed borrowers in order to ensure that loss event is identified as early as possible.
If there is evidence that an impairment loss event on significant credit exposures has been incurred, the Bank assesses the borrowers on an individual basis and measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted by the exposures original effective interest rate for fixed rate loans or current effective interest rate for variable rate loans.
The Bank considers two types of sources for recoveries: cash recoveries and or collateral recovery.
For cash recoveries the estimated recoverable amount is equal to the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
Collateral recoveries reflect the cash flows that may result from collateral foreclosure.
The Bank uses its best estimates to assess future recoveries, applying scenario analysis and taking into account all relevant information available at the reporting date including adverse changes in general macroeconomic environment or the industry the borrower operates in.
If the Group determines that there is no objective evidence that an individually assessed financial asset incurred in impairment whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment.
For collective assessment purposes exposures are grouped into a homogenous risk pools based on similar credit risk characteristics.
Common credit risk characteristics of the group include but are not limited to: type of counterparty individual vs. business, type of product, past-due status of the exposure, restructuring status and type of collateral.
In order to calculate impairment allowance for collectively assessed loans pools, the Bank estimates the following risk parameters: probability of default, cure rate, recovery rate, survival rate and loss given default, based on historical experience.
In case of a change in either the internal or external environment and historical data no longer reflect the current situation, the Bank adjusts risk parameters on the basis of current observable data to reflect the effects of present conditions that did not affect past periods, and to remove the effects of past conditions that do no longer exist.
If the terms of an impaired financial asset held at amortised cost are renegotiated or otherwise modified because of financial difficulties of the borrower or issuer, impairment is measured using the original effective interest rate before the modification of terms.
The Bank reverses previously recognised impairment loss if, once identified, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease is related to an objective event.
The previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account through profit or loss.
In order to reverse provisions for individually significant borrowers there should be objective evidence that the borrowers financial standing has improved or there is improvement in collateral coverage.
For collectively assessed loans the Bank applies the notion of quarantine period defined as period necessary for an exposure to satisfy performing loans criterias in order to be reclassified in a performing loans pool.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 175 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Repossessed collateral.
Repossessed collateral represents non-financial assets acquired by the Group to settle overdue loans.
The assets are initially recognised at fair value when acquired and included in premises and equipment, investment property or inventories within other assets depending on their nature and the Groups intention in respect of recovery of these assets and are subsequently remeasured and accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies for these categories of assets.
Inventories of repossessed assets are recorded at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
The Group enters into credit related commitments, including letters of credit and financial guarantees.
Financial guarantees represent irrevocable assurances to make payments in the event that a customer cannot meet its obligations to third parties and carry the same credit risk as loans.
Financial guarantees and commitments to provide a loan are initially recognised at their fair value, which is normally evidenced by the amount of fees received.
This amount is amortised on a straight line basis over the life of the commitments, except for those to originate loans if it is probable that the Group will enter into a specific lending arrangement and does not expect to sell the resulting loan shortly after origination: Such loan commitment fees are deferred and included in the carrying value of the loan on initial recognition.
At the end of each reporting period, the commitments are measured at the higher of i the unamortised balance of the amount at initial recognition and ii the best estimate of expenditure required to settle the commitment at the end of each reporting period.
Performance guarantees are contracts that provide compensation if another party fails to perform a contractual obligation.
Such contracts do not transfer credit risk.
Performance guarantees are recorded off-balance sheet at initiation.
Fee income is recognised as earned over the lifetime of a respective contract.
At the end of each reporting period, the provision for performance guarantee contracts are measured at the best estimate of expenditure required to settle the contract at the end of each reporting period, discounted to present value if the discounting effect is material.
The Bank has the contractual right to revert to its customer for recovering amounts paid to settle the performance guarantee contracts.
Such amounts are recognised as loans and receivables.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and whenever there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
Such units or group of units represent the lowest level at which the Group monitors goodwill, and are not larger than an operating segment.
Gains or losses on disposal of an operation within a cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated include the carrying amount of goodwill associated with the disposed operation.
This is generally measured on the basis of the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit which is retained.
Premises and equipment, except for land, buildings and construction in progress, are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment, where required.
Cost of premises and equipment of acquired subsidiaries is the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, land, buildings and construction in progress are carried at a revalued amount, being the fair value at the date of revaluation, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Revaluations are performed frequently enough to ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that which would be determined using fair values at the end of reporting period.
Any revaluation surplus is credited to the revaluation reserve for premises and equipment included in equity, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously recognised in profit or loss.
In this case the increase is recognised in profit or loss to the extent of the decrease previously charged.
A revaluation deficit is recognised in profit or loss, except that a deficit directly offsetting a previous surplus on the same asset is recognised in other comprehensive income and reduces revaluation reserve for premises and equipment accumulated in equity.
Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged to profit or loss.
Upon disposal of revalued property, any revaluation reserve relating to the particular asset being sold or retired is transferred to retained earnings.
Costs of minor repairs and maintenance are expensed when incurred.
Costs of replacing major parts or components of premises and equipment items are capitalised and the replaced part is retired.
If impaired, premises and equipment are written down to the higher of their value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
The decrease in carrying amount is charged to profit or loss to the extent it exceeds the previous revaluation surplus in equity.
An impairment loss recognised for an asset in prior years is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets value in use or fair value less costs to sell.
Gains and losses on disposals determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount are recognised in profit or loss.
176 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Depreciation.
Land and construction in progress are not depreciated.
Depreciation on other items of premises and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost or revalued amounts to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Premises 30 100 years: Furniture and fixtures 5 8 years: Computers and office equipment 3 8 years: Motor vehicles 4 5 years: Other equipment 2 10 years: and Leasehold improvements The term of the underlying lease or if not defined, not more than 7 years.
The residual value of an asset is the estimated amount that the Group would currently obtain from disposal of the asset less the estimated costs of disposal, if the asset was already of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life.
The residual value of an asset is nil if the Group expects to use the asset until the end of its physical life.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Investment property is property that the Groups owns to earn rental income or for capital appreciation, or both, and that it does not occupy.
Investment property is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment, where required.
It is amortised on a straight line basis over an expected useful life of 30 to 50 years.
In case of any indication that the investment properties may be impaired, the Group estimates the recoverable amount as the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
The carrying amount of an investment property is written down to its recoverable amount through a charge to profit or loss for the year.
An impairment loss recognised in prior years is reversed if there has been a subsequent change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount.
Land included in investment property is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other items of investment properties is calculated using the straightline method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their estimated useful lives of 30 to 50 years.
Residual values of investment properties are estimated to be nil.
Earned rental income is recorded in profit or loss for the year within other operating income.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised to the assets carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed when incurred.
All of the Groups intangible assets have definite useful life and primarily include capitalised computer software and licenses.
Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
All other costs associated with computer software, eg its maintenance, are expensed when incurred.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over expected useful lives of 2 to 15 years.
Finance lease receivables Investment in finance lease.
Where the Group is a lessor in a lease that substantially transfers all risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the lessee, the assets leased out are presented as investments in finance leases and carried at the present value of the future lease payments.
Investments in finance leases are initially recognised at commencement when the lease term begins using a discount rate determined at inception the early date of the lease agreement and the date of commitment by the parties to the principal provisions of the lease.
The difference between the gross receivable and the present value represents unearned finance income.
This income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method before tax, which reflects a constant periodic rate of return.
Incremental costs directly attributable to negotiating and arranging the lease are included in the initial measurement of the finance lease receivable and reduce the amount of income recognised over the lease term.
Finance income from leases is recorded within interest income in the profit or loss.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss when incurred as a result of one or more events loss events that took place after the initial recognition of investments in leases.
The Group uses the same principal criteria to determine that there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred as for loans carried at amortised costs disclosed earlier in this note.
Impairment losses are recognised through an allowance account to write down the receivables net carrying amount to the present value of expected cash flows which exclude future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the interest rates implicit in the finance leases.
The estimated future cash flows reflect the cash flows that may result from obtaining and selling the assets subject to the lease.
The company recognises receivables from terminated contracts at the moment of lease contract termination.
These receivables are recognised at amount comprising difference between fair value of repossessed assets and outstanding balance of net investment in finance lease.
Receivables are accounted for at amortised cost less impairment.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 177 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Prepayment for purchase of leasing assets.
Prepayment for purchase of leasing assets comprises of interest bearing advance payments made to purchase assets for transfer into leases.
Such advances are accounted for at amortised cost less impairment.
On commencement of the leases, advances towards lease contracts are transferred into net investment in finance lease.
Insurance and reinsurance receivables are recognised based on insurance policy terms and measured at cost.
The carrying value of insurance and reinsurance receivables is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, with any impairment loss recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
Reinsurance receivables primarily include balances due from both insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
Insurance premiums are recognised as revenue earned premiums proportionally over the period of coverage of respective insurance contracts.
Premiums are shown before deduction of commission and are gross of any taxes or duties levied on premiums.
Amounts due to reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the associated reinsured policies and in accordance with the reinsurance contract.
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis.
An impairment review is performed on all reinsurance assets when an indication of impairment occurs.
Reinsurance receivables are impaired only if there is objective evidence that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract that this can be measured reliably.
Liability adequacy tests are performed at each balance sheet date to ensure the adequacy of recognised insurance liabilities net of related deferred acquisition costs.
In performing the tests, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and administration costs in respect of claims, as well as investment income from assets backing such liabilities, are used.
Where tests highlight a deficiency, insurance liabilities are increased with any deficiency being recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Amount due to credit institutions are recorded when counterparty banks advance money or other assets to the Group.
The non-derivative liability is carried at amortised cost.
If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the consolidated statement of financial position and the difference between the carrying amount of the liability and the consideration paid is included in gains or losses arising from retirement of debt.
Customer accounts are non-derivative liabilities to individuals, state or corporate customers and are carried at amortised cost.
Subordinated debt includes long-term non-derivative liabilities to international financial institutions and is carried at amortised cost.
The repayment of subordinated debt ranks after all other creditors in case of liquidation and is included in the Banks Tier 2 capital.
Debt securities in issue include promissory notes, bonds, certificates of deposit and debentures issued by the Group.
Debt securities are stated at amortised cost.
If the Group purchases its own debt securities in issue, they are removed from the consolidated statement of financial position and the difference between the carrying amount of the liability and the consideration paid is included in gains arising from retirement of debt.
Derivative financial instruments, including foreign exchange contracts, interest rate futures, forward rate agreements, currency and interest rate swaps, currency and interest rate options are carried at their fair value.
The Group also enters into offsetting deposits with its counterparty banks to exchange currencies.
Such deposits, while legally separate, are aggregated and accounted for as a single derivative financial instrument currency swap on a net basis where i the deposits are entered into at the same time and in contemplation of one another, ii they have the same counterparty, iii they relate to the same risk, and iv there is no apparent business purpose for structuring the transactions separately that could not also have been accomplished in a single transaction.
All derivative instruments are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are included in profit or loss.
The Group does not apply hedge accounting.
Certain derivative instruments embedded in other financial instruments are treated as separate derivative instruments when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Income taxes are provided in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the legislation enacted or substantively enacted by the end of reporting period in the respective territories that the Bank and its subsidiaries operate.
The income tax charge credit comprises of current tax and deferred tax and is recognised in profit or loss except if it is recognised directly in other comprehensive income because it relates to transactions that are also recognised, in the same or a different period, directly in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the amount expected-to-be-paid to or recovered from the tax authorities in respect of taxable profits or losses for the current and prior periods.
Taxable profits or losses are based on estimates if consolidated financial statements are authorised prior to filing relevant tax returns.
Taxes, other than on income, are recorded within administrative and other operating expenses.
178 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method for tax loss carry forwards and temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
In accordance with the initial recognition exemption, deferred taxes are not recorded for temporary differences on initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a transaction other than a business combination if the transaction, when initially recorded, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recorded for temporary differences on initial recognition of goodwill and subsequently for goodwill that is not deductible for tax purposes.
Deferred tax balances are measured at tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of reporting period that are expected to apply to the extent of time when the temporary differences will reverse or the tax loss carry forwards will be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted only within the individual companies of the Group.
Deferred tax assets for deductible temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards are recorded only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the deductions can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on post-acquisition retained earnings of subsidiaries, except where the Group controls the subsidiarys dividend policy and it is probable that the difference will not reverse through dividends or otherwise in the foreseeable future.
The Groups uncertain tax positions are reassessed by the management at the end of each reporting period.
Liabilities are recorded for income tax positions that are determined by the management as more likely than not to result in additional taxes being levied if the positions were to be challenged by the tax authorities.
The assessment is based on the interpretation of tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of reporting period and any known Court or other rulings on such issues.
Liabilities for penalties, interest and taxes other than on income are recognised based on the managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligations at the end of the reporting period.
Provisions for liabilities and charges.
Provisions for liabilities and charges are non-financial liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are accrued when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Ordinary shares with discretionary dividends are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Any excess of the fair value of consideration received over the par value of shares issued is recorded as share premium in equity.
Dividends are recorded in equity in the period in which they are declared.
Any dividends declared after the end of the reporting period and before the consolidated financial statements are authorised for issue, are disclosed in the subsequent events note.
Interest income and expense are recorded for all debt instruments on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
As part of interest income or expense this method defers all fees paid or received between the parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
Fees integral to the effective interest rate include origination fees received or paid by the entity relating to the creation or acquisition of a financial asset or issuance of a financial liability, for example fees for evaluating creditworthiness, evaluating and recording guarantees or collateral, negotiating the terms of the instrument and for processing transaction documents.
Commitment fees received by the Group to originate loans at market interest rates are integral to the effective interest rate if it is probable that the Group will enter into a specific lending arrangement and does not expect to sell the resulting loan shortly after origination.
The Group does not designate loan commitments as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
When loans and other debt instruments become doubtful of collection, they are written down to present value of expected cash inflows and interest income is thereafter recorded for the unwinding of the present value discount based on the assets effective interest rate that was used to measure the impairment loss.
All other fees, commissions and other income and expense items are generally recorded on an accrual basis by reference to completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Commissions and fees arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third party, such as the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses, that are earned on execution of the underlying transaction are recorded on its completion.
Portfolio and other management advisory and service fees are recognised based on the applicable service contracts, usually on a time-proportion basis.
Asset management fees related to investment funds are recorded rateably over the period the service is provided.
The same principle is applied for wealth management, financial planning and custody services that are continuously provided over an extended period of time.
The Groups presentation currency is the Georgian Lari.
TBCGs and the Banks functional currency is the Georgian Lari.
The functional currency of each of the Groups consolidated entities is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency, converted at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 179 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Monetary assets and liabilities are translated into each entitys functional currency at the official exchange rate of the territories where the Bank and its subsidiaries operate, at the respective reporting period.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities into each entitys functional currency at year-end official exchange rates are recognised in profit or loss.
Translation at year-end rates does not apply to non-monetary items, including equity investments.
The effects of exchange rate changes on the fair value of equity securities are recorded as part of the fair value gain or loss.
The results and financial position of each group entity the functional currency of none of which is a currency of a hyperinflationary economy are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i. assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented are translated at the closing rate at the end of the respective reporting period: ii.
income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : iii.
components of equity are translated at the historic rate: and iv.
all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
After losing control over a foreign operation, the exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss for the year as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
On partial disposal of a subsidiary without loss of control, the related portion of accumulated currency translation differences is reclassified to non-controlling interest within equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to either settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Staff costs and related contributions.
Wages, salaries, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary benefits as well as the cash settled part of the share based payment schemes are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the Groups employees.
Earnings per share EPS are determined by dividing the profit or loss attributable to owners of the Bank by the weighted average number of participating shares outstanding during the reporting year.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
In calculating diluted EPS, non-vested ordinary shares are treated as outstanding on the grant date.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Groups chief operating decision maker.
Segments whose revenue, result or assets are ten percent or more of all the segments are reported separately.
A share-based payment arrangement is an agreement between the entity and another party including an employee that entitles the other party to receive cash or other assets of the entity for amounts that are based on the price or value of equity instruments including shares or share options of the entity or another group entity, or equity instruments including shares or share options of the entity or another group entity, provided the specified vesting conditions, if any, are met.
Under the share-based compensation plan the Group receives services from the management as consideration for equity instruments of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity instruments is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by the reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in the assumptions about the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest.
The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest based on the non-marketing vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Increase in equity on accrued shares resulting from the equity settled scheme is accounted for under share based payment reserve.
Upon meeting vesting conditions, share based payment reserve attributable to the vested shares is transferred to share capital and share premium.
When portions of a single grant vest on two or more dates the entity applies graded vesting for accounting of share based payment arrangement.
Vesting period of each tranche of the grant ends when the employee owns the shares with no further service restrictions.
Under graded vesting scheme the expense for earlier years is higher than for later years.
Each tranche is expensed over its own service period with a credit entry being equity.
180 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 3 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements in Applying Accounting Policies The Group makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on the managements experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The management also makes certain judgements, apart from those involving estimations, in the process of applying the accounting policies.
Judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements and estimates that can cause a significant adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year include: Impairment losses on loans and advances and finance lease receivables.
The Group regularly reviews its loan portfolio and finance lease receivables to assess impairment.
In determining whether an impairment loss should be recorded in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, the Group concludes whether there is, or not, any observable data indicating a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of loans or finance lease receivables before the decrease can be identified with an individual loan in that portfolio.
This evidence may include observable data indicating that there has been an adverse change in the payment status of borrowers in a group, or national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on assets in the group.
When scheduling future cash flows the management uses estimates based on historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
The methodology and assumptions used for estimating both the amount and timing of future cash flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
A 5% increase or decrease between actual loss experience and the loss estimates used will result in an additional or lower charge for loan loss impairment of GEL 11,393 thousand 2016: GEL 11,251 thousand: 2015: GEL 9,707 thousand and additional charge for impairment of finance lease receivables of GEL 63 thousand 2016: GEL 57 thousand: 2015: GEL 37 thousand, respectively.
Impairment provisions for individually significant loans and leases are based on the estimate of discounted future cash flows of the individual loans and leases taking into account repayments and realisation of any assets held as collateral against the loan or the lease.
A 5% increase or decrease in the actual future discounted cash flows from individually significant loans which could arise from a mixture of differences in amounts and timing of the cash flows will result in an additional or lower charge for loan loss provision of GEL 1,454 thousand 2016: GEL 2,701 thousand: 2015: GEL 3,677 thousand, respectively.
A 5% increase or decrease in the actual future discounted cash flows from individually significant leases which could arise from a mixture of differences in amounts and timing of the cash flows will result in an additional or lower charge for provision of GEL 14 thousand 2016: GEL 9 thousand: 2015: GEL 2 thousand, respectively.
Fair value of financial instruments.
Where the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using a variety of valuation techniques that include the use of mathematical models.
The inputs to these models employ observable market data.
However, certain financial instruments are valued on the basis of valuation techniques featuring one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them the measurement of fair value is more judgemental.
The Group is subject to corporate income taxes in several jurisdictions and the calculation of the Groups tax charge and provisions for corporate income taxes necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement.
4 Adoption of New or Revised Standards and Interpretations The adopted accounting policies are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
There were no new or amended standards or interpretations that resulted in a change of the accounting policy.
The new disclosures are included in Note35 in accordance with Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 issued on 29 January 2016 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 181 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 5 New Accounting Pronouncements Minor amendments to IFRSs The IASB has published a number of minor amendments some of which has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The Group has not early adopted any of the amendments effective after 31 December 2017 and it expects they will have an insignificant effect, when adopted, on the consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of TBC Bank Group PLC.
Major new IFRSs The IASB has published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases, which have been endorsed for use in the EU.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement amended in July 2014 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Key features of the new standard are: Financial assets are required to be classified into three measurement categories: i those to be measured subsequently at amortised cost, ii those to be measured subsequently at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI and iii those to be measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss FVPL : The classification for debt instruments is driven by the entitys business model for managing the financial assets and whether the contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest SPPI.
If a debt instrument is held to collect, it may be carried at amortised cost if it also meets the SPPI requirement.
Debt instruments in line with the SPPI requirement that are held in a portfolio where an entity both holds to collect assets cash flows and sells assets may be classified as FVOCI.
Financial assets that do not contain cash flows that are SPPI must be measured at FVPL for example, derivatives.
Embedded derivatives are no longer separated from financial assets but will be included in assessing the SPPI condition: Investments in equity instruments are always measured at fair value.
However, the management can make an irrevocable election to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income, provided the instrument is not held for trading.
If the equity instrument is held for trading, changes in fair value are presented in profit or loss: Most of the requirements in IAS 39 for classification and measurement of financial liabilities were carried forward unchanged to IFRS 9.
The key difference is that an entity will be required to present the effects of changes in own credit risk of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss in other comprehensive income: IFRS 9 introduces a new model for the recognition of impairment losses the expected credit losses ECL model.
There is a three stage approach which is based on the change in credit quality of financial assets since initial recognition.
In practice, the new rules mean that entities will have to record an immediate loss equal to the 12-month ECL on initial recognition of financial assets that are not credit impaired or lifetime ECL for trade receivables.
In case of a significant increase in credit risk, impairment is measured using lifetime ECL rather than 12-month ECL.
The model includes operational simplifications for lease and trade receivables: Hedge accounting requirements were amended to align more closely the accounting with the risk management.
The standard provides entities with an accounting policy choice between applying the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 and continuing to apply IAS 39 to all hedges because the standard currently does not address accounting for macro hedging.
Based on an analysis of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 December 2017 and on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at that date, the Management of the Group estimated the impact of GEL 63,734 thousand on its consolidated financial statements from the adoption of the new standard on 1 January 2018.
The Group plans to use modified retrospective approach and anticipated impact of adoption will result in the decrease to shareholders equity.
IFRS 9 does not have any impact on Banks regulatory capital and capital adequacy ratios, which are calculated using local regulatory accounting standards.
182 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 5 New Accounting Pronouncements continued The following table reconciles the carrying amounts of financial assets, from their previous measurement categories in accordance with IAS 39 into their new measurement categories upon transition to IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018: Effect Carrying Carrying value per Remeasurement Reclassification Measurement category value per IAS IFRS 9 39 closing opening balance at 31 balance at December 1January In thousands of GEL IAS 39 IFRS 9 2017 ECL Other Mandatory Voluntary 2018 Cash and cash equivalents L&R AC 1,431,477 491 1,430,986 Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia L&R AC 1,033,818 1,033,818 Investments in debt securities AFS FVOCI 656,234 1,051 655,183 Investments in debt securities L&R AC 449,538 628 448,910 Total investments in debt securities 1,105,772 1,679 1,104,093 Investments in equity securities AFS FVOCI 1,704 1,704 Total investments in equity securities 1,704 1,704 Due from other banks L&R AC 39,643 36 39,607 Loans and advances to customers L&R AC 8,325,353 63,731 8,261,622 Total loans and advances to customers 8,325,353 63,731 8,261,622 Investment in Finance Lease FLR AC 143,836 739 143,097 Total Investment in Finance Lease 143,836 739 143,097 Other financial assets L&R AC 146,144 1,019 145,125 Total other financial assets 146,144 1,019 145,125 Total financial assets 12,227,747 67,695 12,160,052 Positive figures mean increase in the estimated credit loss, whilst the negative figures stand for decrease in ECL.
The GEL 67.7 million increase was offset by GEL 4.0 million release of provision level for Credit related commitments and performance guarantees resulting in 63.7million increase in total provision level.
No significant changes are expected for financial liabilities.
Impairment of financial assets Per IFRS 9 impairment methodology, the Bank classifies its portfolio into three stages: Stage I assets for which no significant increase of credit risk since initial recognition is identified: Stage II assets for which significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition is identified: Stage III credit-impaired exposures.
For stage I exposures the Bank creates 12 months expected credit losses, whereas for stage II and stage III lifetime expected credit losses are created.
The key impact of IFRS 9 comes from Stage II classification and incorporation of forward looking information in allowance calculation.
For the Stage II classification purposes the Bank applies both quantitative and the qualitative criteria including, but not limited to: 30 DPD overdue: downgrade of the risk category of the borrower since initial recognition: deterioration of the probability of default parameter above the predefined threshold.
Under IFRS 9 methodology the Bank updated its default definition criteria as well in order to make it consistent with the Banks internal guidelines.
Updated default definition includes criteria such as: i 90 DPD overdue, and ii other criteria indicating the borrowers unlikeness to repay the liabilities.
For Corporate and SME business borrowers the Bank applies borrower based default definition.
As for the retail and macro segments facility level default definition is utilised with additional pulling effect criteria being applied.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 183 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 5 New Accounting Pronouncements continued Another significant driver of IFRS 9 impact on allowance level is incorporation of the forward looking information FLI.
The Bank incorporates forward looking information for both individual and collective assessment.
For FLI purposes the Bank defines three scenarios, which are: baseline most likely : upside better than most likely : downside worse than most likely.
The Bank derives the baseline macro scenario and takes into account projections from various external sources the National Bank of Georgia, Ministry of Finance, IMF as well as other IFIs, to ensure the alignment to the consensus market expectations.
Upside and downside scenarios are defined based on the framework developed by the Banks macroeconomic unit.
The Bank calculates expected impairment losses for each scenario.
In order to come up with the final expected credit loss figures the bank applies probability weighted average approach where probabilities of each scenario are used as weights.
The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in presentation.
These are expected to change the nature and extent of the Groups disclosures about its financial instruments particularly in the year of the adoption of the new standard.
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers issued on 28 May 2014 and effective for the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The new standard introduces the core principle that revenue must be recognised when the goods or services are transferred to the customer, at the transaction price.
Any bundled goods or services that are distinct must be separately recognised, and any discounts or rebates on the contract price must generally be allocated to the separate elements.
When the consideration varies for any reason, minimum amounts must berecognised if they are not at significant risk of reversal.
Costs incurred to secure contracts with customers have to be capitalised and amortised over the period when the benefits of the contract are consumed.
No material effect is expected on the Group due to introduction of the new standard.
IFRS 16, Leases issued on 13 January 2016 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The new standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases.
All leases result in the lessee obtaining the right to use an asset at the start of the lease and, if lease payments are made over time, also to access financing.
Accordingly, IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases as is required by IAS 17 and, instead, introduces a single lessee accounting model.
Lessees will be required to recognise: a assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value: and b depreciation of lease assets separately from interest on lease liabilities in the income statement.
IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the new standard on its financial statements.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts issued on 18 May 2017 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021.
IFRS 17 replaces IFRS 4, which has given companies dispensation to carry on accounting for insurance contracts using existing practices.
As a consequence, it was difficult for investors to compare and contrast the financial performance of otherwise similar insurance companies.
IFRS 17 is a single principle-based standard to account for all types of insurance contracts, including reinsurance contracts that an insurer holds.
The standard requires recognition and measurement of groups of insurance contracts at: i a risk-adjusted present value of the future cash flows the fulfilment cash flows that incorporates all of the available information about the fulfilment cash flows in a way that is consistent with observable market information: plus if this value is a liability or minus if this value is an asset : ii an amount representing the unearned profit in the group of contracts the contractual service margin.
Insurers will be recognising the profit from a group of insurance contracts over the period they provide insurance coverage, and as they are released from risk.
If a group of contracts is or becomes loss-making, an entity will be recognising the loss immediately The Group is currently assessing the impact of the interpretation on its financial statements.
IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration issued on 8 December 2016 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
This interpretation considers how to determine the date of the transaction when applying the standard on foreign currency transactions, IAS 21.
The interpretation applies where an entity either pays or received consideration in advance for foreign currency-denominated contracts.
The interpretation specifies that the date of transaction is the date on which the entity initially recognises the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration.
If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the Interpretation requires an entity to determine the date of transaction for each payment or receipt of advance consideration.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments issued on 7 June 2017 and effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IAS 12 specifies how to account for current and deferred tax, but not how to reflect the effects of uncertainty.
The interpretation clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12 when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
An entity should determine whether to consider each uncertain tax treatment separately or together with one or more other uncertain tax treatments based on which approach better predicts the resolution of the uncertainty.
An entity should assume that a taxation authority will examine amounts it has a right to examine and have full knowledge of all related information when making those examinations.
If an entity concludes it is not probable that the taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment, the effect of uncertainty will be reflected in determining the related taxable profit or 184 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 5 New Accounting Pronouncements continued loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits or tax rates, by using either the most likely amount or the expected value, depending on which method the entity expects to better predict the resolution of the uncertainty.
An entity will reflect the effect of a change in facts and circumstances or of new information that affects the judgments or estimates required by the interpretation as a change in accounting estimate.
Examples of changes in facts and circumstances or new information that can result in the reassessment of a judgment or estimate include, but are not limited to, examinations or actions by a taxation authority, changes in rules established by a taxation authority or the expiry of a taxation authoritys right to examine or reexamine a tax treatment.
The absence of agreement or disagreement by a taxation authority with a tax treatment, in isolation, is unlikely to constitute a change in facts and circumstances or new information that affects the judgments and estimates required by the Interpretation.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the interpretation on its financial statements.
6 Cash and Cash Equivalents In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Cash on hand 419,605 402,532 320,363 Cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia other than mandatory reserve deposits 371,342 135,557 121,494 Correspondent accounts and overnight placements with other banks 571,078 406,319 219,275 Placements with and receivables from other banks with original maturities of less than three months 69,452 772 59,215 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,431,477 945,180 720,347 97% of the correspondent accounts and overnight placements with other banks are placed with OECD banking institutions 31 December 2016: 96%: 31 December 2015: 91%.
As of 31 December 2017 GEL 12,421 thousand was placed on interbank term deposits with one non-OECD bank and GEL 57,031 thousand with one OECD bank 31 December 2016: GEL 772 thousand with four non-OECD banks: 31 December 2015: GEL 59,215 thousand with eight non-OECD banks.
Interest rate analysis of cash and cash equivalents is disclosed in Note 36. Credit rating of correspondent accounts and overnight placements with other banks is as follows: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 A 271,366 78,324 13,245 A 62,434 258,025 1 A- 213,247 27,997 152,044 BBB 3,235 30,304 BBB 383 23,174 3,039 BBB- 45 464 2,656 BB 300 1,147 BB 224 BB- 15,919 3,039 11,671 B 442 B 185 2,288 164 Not rated 3,298 11,861 6,151 Total 571,078 406,319 219,275 Credit rating of placements with and receivables from other banks with original maturities of less than three months stands as follows: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 A 772 BBB 57,031 B 23,769 Not rated 12,421 35,446 Total 69,452 772 59,215 The table illustrates the ratings by international agencies Standard & Poors and Fitch Ratings.
When different credit ratings are designated by the agencies, the highest designated rating for this asset is used.
As of 31 December 2017 there were no investment securities held as collateral against placements with other banks under the reverse repo agreements 31 December 2016: nil, 2015: GEL 50,200 thousand.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 185 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 7 Due from Other Banks Amounts due from other banks include placements with original maturities of more than three months that are not collateralised and represent neither past due nor impaired amounts at the end of 2017, 2016 and 2015. Credit ratings of placements with other banks with original maturities of more than three months were as follows: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 A 8,632 13,210 7,975 BBB 78 79 72 BBB 5,541 BB- 4,041 801 1,507 B 661 B 1,520 5,073 1,268 Not rated 24,711 21 220 Total 39,643 24,725 11,042 As of 31 December 2017 the Group had one placement with one bank, with original maturities of more than three months and with aggregated amounts above GEL 5,000 thousand 2016: nil: 2015: nil.
The total aggregated amount of these placement was GEL 23,147 thousand 2016: nil: 2015: nil or 58% of the total amount due to other 2016: nil: 2015: nil.
As of 31 December 2017 GEL 13,121 thousand, 2016: GEL 19,511 thousand: 2015: GEL 8,711 thousand were kept on deposits as restricted cash under an arrangement with a credit card company or credit card related services with other banks.
Refer to Note 42 for the estimated fair value of amounts due from other banks.
Interest rate analysis of due from other banks is disclosed in Note36.
8 Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia NBG represent amounts deposited with the NBG.
Resident financial institutions are required to maintain an interest-earning obligatory reserve with the NBG, the amount of which depends on the level of funds attracted by the financial institutions.
The Group earned up to 5.0%, 0.6% and 0.4% annual interest in GEL, USD and EUR respectively on mandatory reserve with NBG in 2017 2016: 5.0%, 0.0% and 0.4% in GEL, USD and EUR respectively.
The Group did not earn annual interest on the mandatory reserve with the NBG for year ended 31 December 2015.
In September 2017 Fitch Ratings reaffirmed Georgias long-term foreign and local currency Issuer Default Ratings IDRs at BBwith Stable Outlooks.
The issue ratings on Georgias senior unsecured foreignand local-currency bonds are also affirmed at BB-.
"The Country Ceiling is affirmed at BB"" and the Short-term foreign-currency IDR at B""."
9 Loans and Advances to Customers In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Corporate loans 2,475,392 2,062,229 1,500,104 Consumer loans 2,163,425 1,872,142 1,170,100 Mortgage loans 2,069,728 1,808,434 905,274 Loans to micro, small and medium enterprises 1,844,672 1,615,920 1,063,551 Total loans and advances to customers before impairment 8,553,217 7,358,725 4,639,029 Less: Provision for loan impairment 227,864 225,023 194,143 Total loans and advances to customers 8,325,353 7,133,702 4,444,886 As of 31 December 2017 loans and advances to customers carried at GEL 246,267 thousand have been pledged to local banks or other financial institutions as collateral with respect to other borrowed funds 2016: GEL 120,093 thousand: 2015: GEL 34,012 thousand.
Following the merger of Bank Republic with TBC Bank, the Group has reassessed its definition of segments as disclosed in Note 28.
Some of the clients were reallocated to different segments.
Relevant changes are applied to all periods presented in this report, except for the profit and loss items for the year ended 31 December 2015, as recalculation was impracticable.
Therefore provision movement for the year ended 31 December 2015 is per old segmentation and contains re-segmentation effect line to adjust opening provision levels for 1 January 2016.
Balance sheet amounts as at 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015 are comparable.
As per current report, micro and SME loans are combined in one MSME category.
Consumer loans include all retail loans, except mortgage loans.
186 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 9 Loans and Advances to Customers continued Movements in the provision for loan impairment during 2017 are as follows: Loans to micro, small Corporate Consumer Mortgage and medium In thousands of GEL loans loans loans enterprises Total Provision for loan impairment as of 1January 2017 90,100 73,730 23,602 37,591 225,023 Total provision for impairment during the year: 11,088 130,333 384 21,521 141,150 Provision for impairment credited charged to income statement during the year 27,031 111,922 5,343 14,275 93,823 Recoveries of loans previously written off 15,943 18,411 5,727 7,246 47,327 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 29,386 82,601 6,507 20,265 138,759 Effect of translation to presentation currency 76 98 276 450 Provision for loan impairment as of 31December 2017 49,626 121,538 17,577 39,123 227,864 Loans and advances to customers written off in 2017 included loans to customers in the gross amount of GEL 21,056 thousand issued in 2017, a previously issued performance guarantee of GEL 6 thousand which was transformed into loan in 2017 and GEL 117,697 thousand issued in previous years.
Movements in the provision for loan impairment during 2016 were as follows: Loans to micro, small Corporate Consumer Mortgage and medium In thousands of GEL loans loans loans enterprises Total Provision for loan impairment as of 1January 2016 108,050 42,433 13,135 30,525 194,143 Resegmentation effect 10,092 10,092 Total provision for impairment during the year: 11,841 71,369 15,108 31,136 105,772 Provision for impairment charged to income statement during the year 48,948 60,438 12,572 25,140 49,202 Recoveries of loans previously written off 37,107 10,931 2,536 5,996 56,570 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 6,109 50,121 4,580 13,755 74,565 Effect of translation to presentation currency 43 61 223 327 Provision for loan impairment as of 31December 2016 90,100 73,730 23,602 37,591 225,023 Loans and advances to customers written off in 2016 included loans to customers in the gross amount of GEL 9,830 thousand issued in 2016, a previously issued performance guarantee of GEL 0.14 thousand which was transformed into loan in 2016 and GEL 64,735 thousand issued in previous years.
At year-end 2016 the Bank updated its methodology for loan loss provisioning purposes to include impairment assessment of acquired portfolios.
As per the upgraded methodology, an impairment allowance is not created on the initial recognition of purchased portfolio considering that expected losses are reflected in fair value of the portfolio.
For the next reporting periods, the impairment allowance is recognised if the incurred losses at the reporting date have increased compared to the level of incurred losses at the moment of acquisition.
The Bank applies updated provisioning methodology since year-end 2015.
The updated methodology enables the Bank to assess impairment allowances in an accurate manner, given granular segmentation of the portfolio and the various risk parameters applied.
The credit portfolio is assessed for impairment on an individual and collective basis.
For provisioning purposes, borrowers or groups of borrowers are classified as significant or non-significant.
Borrowers with total liabilities of GEL 2 million or more are regarded as significant and assessed individually for impairment.
In order to calculate the impairment allowance for collectively assessed loan pools, the certain risk parameters are estimated, based on various statistical models.
Following the merger of Constanta Bank with TBC Bank, the Group has reassessed the segment definition as disclosed in Note 28.
A few clients were reallocated to different segments.
Relevant changes in the provision groups are highlighted in the table above under Post-merger classification effect.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 187 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9 Loans and Advances to Customers continued Movements in the provision for loan impairment during 2015 are as follows: Loans to micro, small Corpo rate Consumer Mortgage and medium In thousands of GEL loans loans loans enterprises Total Provision for loan impairment as of 1January 2015 91,226 36,753 8,889 12,896 149,764 Post-merger reclassification effect 2,373 245 2,618 Total provision for impairment during the year: 22,890 31,246 7,481 34,003 95,620 Provision for impairment charged to income statement during the year 15,396 24,311 4,693 28,391 72,791 Recoveries of loans previously written off 7,494 6,935 2,788 5,612 22,829 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 6,066 22,937 2,714 17,734 49,451 Effect of translation to presentation currency 256 276 1,258 1,790 Provision for loan impairment as of 31December 2015 108,050 42,433 13,135 30,525 194,143 Loans and advances to customers written off in 2015 included loans to customers in the gross amount of GEL 7,134 thousand issued in 2015, a previously issued performance guarantee of GEL 1,720 thousand which was transformed into loan in 2015 and GEL 40,597 thousand issued in previous years.
The Group has revised the sector split for 2015 in order to make it consistent with 2016 and 2017.
As of 31 December 2017 the Group had 142 borrowers 2016: 112 borrowers: 2015: 84 borrowers with aggregated gross loan amounts above GEL 5,000thousand.
The total aggregated amount of these loans was GEL 2,437,750 thousand 2016: GEL 1,900,916 thousand: 2015: GEL1,378,892 thousand or 28.5% of the gross loan portfolio 2016: 25.8%: 2015: 29.7%.
The Group applied the portfolio provisioning methodology prescribed by IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and it created portfolio provisions for impairment losses that were incurred but have not been specifically identified with any individual loan by the end of reporting period.
The tables above provide an analysis of the loan portfolio based on credit quality.
The Groups policy for credit risk management purposes is to classify each loan as neither past due nor impaired, past due but not impaired, individually assessed impaired loans and collectively assessed impaired loans.
The pool of neither past due nor impaired loans includes exposures that are not overdue and are not classified as impaired.
Past due but not impaired loans include overdue performing loans but with no objective evidence of impairment identified.
The classification includes as well triggered loans that are not impaired because the current value of the expected cash and collateral recoveries are sufficient for full repayment.
Individually assessed impaired loans include exposures which were assessed for impairment on an individual basis, and an ad-hoc impairment allowance was created.
Collectively assessed impaired loans include exposures for which objective evidence of impairment was identified and the respective collective impairment allowance was created.
The Group conducts collective assessment of the borrowers on a monthly basis.
As for the individual assessment, it is performed quarterly.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 191 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9 Loans and Advances to Customers continued The amount and type of collateral required depend on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty.
There are three key types of collateral: Real estate: Movable property including fixed assets, inventory and precious metals: Financial assets including deposits, stocks, and third party guarantees.
The financial effect of collateral is presented by disclosing the collateral values separately for i those assets where collateral and other credit enhancements are equal to or exceed the assets carrying value over-collateralised assets and ii those assets where collateral and other credit enhancements are less than the assets carrying value under-collateralised assets.
The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2017: Over-collateralised Under-collateralised assets assets Carrying value of Value of Carrying value of Value of In thousands of GEL the assets collateral the assets collateral Corporate loans 2,129,927 5,194,598 345,465 97,386 Consumer loans 908,387 2,132,566 1,255,038 25,781 Mortgage loans 2,042,001 4,429,201 27,727 17,189 Loans to micro, small and medium enterprises 1,688,438 3,970,931 156,234 146,949 Total 6,768,753 15,727,296 1,784,464 287,305 The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2016: Over-collateralised Under-collateralised assets assets Carrying value of Value of Carrying value of Value of In thousands of GEL the assets collateral the assets collateral Corporate loans 1,849,202 5,683,279 213,027 109,076 Consumer loans 1,040,644 2,761,580 831,498 28,102 Mortgage loans 1,780,553 4,694,003 27,881 16,360 Loans to micro, small and medium enterprises 1,479,200 4,959,947 136,720 131,967 Total 6,149,599 18,098,809 1,209,126 285,505 The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2015: Over-collateralised Under-collateralised assets assets Carrying value of Value of Carrying value of Value of In thousands of GEL the assets collateral the assets collateral Corporate loans 1,312,561 2,810,880 187,543 64,905 Consumer loans 808,304 1,795,061 361,796 33,532 Mortgage loans 891,639 2,241,109 13,635 3,935 Loans to micro, small and medium enterprises 980,133 2,445,336 83,418 79,653 Total 3,992,637 9,292,386 646,392 182,025 The effect of collateral is determined by comparing the fair value of collateral to outstanding gross loans and advances in the reporting date.
At the central level a specific unit manages collateral to ensure that they serve as an adequate mitigation for credit risk management purposes.
In line with the Groups internal policies, collateral provided to loans are evaluated by the Internal Appraisal Group external reviewers are used in case of loans to related parties or specific cases when complex objects are appraised.
The Internal Appraisal Group is part of the collateral management unit and, in order to ensure adequate and objective appraisal procedures, it is independent from the loan granting process.
Real estate collateral of significant value is reevaluated annually by internal appraisers.
Statistical methods are used to monitor the value of real estate collateral that are of non-significant value and other types of collaterals such as movable assets and precious metals.
Collateral values include the contractual price of third-party guarantees, which, due to their nature, are capped at the loans carrying value.
The values of third-party guarantees in the tables above amounted to GEL 527,498 thousand, GEL 608,058 thousand and GEL 358,907 thousand as of 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015 respectively.
These third-party guarantees are not taken into consideration when assessing the impairment allowance.
Refer to Note 42 for the estimated fair value of each class of loans and advances to customers.
Interest rate analysis of loans and advances to customers is disclosed in Note36.
Information on related party balances is disclosed in Note 44.
192 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 10 Investment Securities Available for Sale In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Corporate bonds 328,761 150,073 174,916 Ministry of Finance of Georgia Treasury Bills 319,745 241,810 33,445 Certificates of Deposit of the National Bank of Georgia 7,728 36,002 84,849 Georgian Government notes 1,016 998 Total debt securities 656,234 428,901 294,208 Corporate shares quoted VISA Inc 9,335 Corporate shares unquoted 1,704 1,802 3,767 Total investment securities available for sale 657,938 430,703 307,310 All debt securities except for corporate bonds are issued by the Government of Georgia and National Bank of Georgia.
Country rating for Georgia stands atBBwith stable outlook as assigned by international rating agencies in September 2017.
67.6% of corporate bonds are issued by triple A rated international financial institutions, 14.8% of corporate bonds are issued by Arated international financial institutions, 15.5% and 0.9% of corporate bonds are issued by B and B rated corporations respectively, whereas 1.3% is issued by two non-rated corporations.
The management could not reliably estimate the fair value of the Groups investment in shares of its unquoted equity investment securities available for sale.
Therefore, these investments are carried at cost of GEL 1,704 thousand 2016: GEL 1,802 thousand: 2015: GEL 3,767 thousand.
The investees have not published recent financial information about their operations, their shares are not quoted and recent trade prices are not publicly accessible.
As of 31 December 2017 investment securities available for sale carried at GEL 424,892 thousand have been pledged to local banks or financial institutions as collateral with respect to other borrowed funds 2016: GEL 205,216 thousand: 2015: GEL 208,467 thousand.
None of the debt securities available for sale are overdue or impaired.
As of 31December 2017 the principal equity investment securities available for sale are as follows: Carrying value as of 31 December Name In thousands of GEL Nature of business Country of registration 2017 2016 2015 Visa Inc. Card Processing USA 9,335 LTD Caucasus Online Telecommunication Georgia 3,014 JSC GRDC Property development Netherlands Antilles 365 365 365 Georgian Stock Exchange Stock exchange Georgia 1,004 1,004 Other 335 433 388 Total 1,704 1,802 13,102 The movements in investment securities available for sale are as follows: In thousands of GEL Note 2017 2016 2015 Carrying amount as of 1 January 430,703 307,310 466,510 Business Combination 153,004 Purchases 560,226 143,783 475,417 Disposals 14,679 Reclassified to Bonds carried at amortised cost 372,063 Redemption at maturity 345,748 167,115 265,107 Revaluation 5,489 522 2,436 Interest income accrued 29 43,735 25,707 20,927 Interest income received 36,214 17,900 15,938 Impairment related to investment in equity security 11 Effect of translation to presentation currency 158 82 Transfer to investments in associate 95 Carrying amount as of 31December 657,938 430,703 307,310 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 193 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 11 Bonds Carried at Amortised Cost In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Ministry of Finance Treasury Bills 424,876 323,478 316,822 Certificates of Deposit of the National Bank of Georgia 24,662 43,408 39,870 Georgian Government notes 6,070 15,400 Total Bonds carried at amortised cost 449,538 372,956 372,092 All debt securities except for corporate bonds are issued by the Government of Georgia and National Bank of Georgia.
Country rating for Georgia stands at BBwith stable outlook as per international rating agencies in September 2017.
The movements in bonds carried at amortised cost are as follows: In thousands of GEL Note 2017 2016 2015 Gross amount as of 1 January 372,956 372,092 Reclassified from available for sale securities 10 372,063 Purchases 307,248 304,109 183,084 Redemption at maturity 242,380 314,231 193,416 Interest income accrual 32,328 30,714 22,950 Interest income received 20,601 19,740 12,589 Effect of translation to presentation currency 13 12 Gross amount as of 31December 449,538 372,956 372,092 For the disclosure of bonds fair value carried at amortised cost refer to Note 42.
An analysis on interest rate for bonds carried at amortised cost is disclosed in Note 36.
As of 31 December 2017 bonds carried at amortised cost of GEL 223,860 thousand have been pledged to local banks or financial institutions as collateral with respect to other borrowed funds 2016: GEL 273,311 thousand: 2015: GEL 136,472 thousand.
None of the bonds carried at amortised cost as of 31 December 2017, 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 were either overdue or impaired.
During 2015 the Group reclassified investment securities available for sale to bonds carried at amortised cost with carrying amount of GEL 372,063 thousand.
At the end of the reporting period, the carrying amounts and fair values of all financial assets that have been reclassified from trading securities and which were not yet sold or otherwise derecognised, were as follows: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair In thousands of GEL value value value value value value Certificates of Deposit of National Bank of Georgia Ministry of Finance Treasury Bills 101,876 106,837 160,619 164,313 219,271 203,087 Government notes 6,070 6,094 12,330 12,050 Total 101,876 106,837 166,689 170,407 231,601 215,137 The income or loss recognised after reclassification, and fair value gain or loss that would have been recognised if the assets had not been reclassified, were as follows: Certificates of Deposit of National Bank of Ministry of Finance Georgia Treasury Bills Government notes Gain loss Gain loss Gain loss Income after without Income after without Income after without In thousands of GEL reclassification reclassification reclassification reclassification reclassification reclassification Year 2015 13 10,319 641 2016 17,575 797 2017 12,668 142 194 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 11 Bonds Carried at Amortised Cost continued In addition, for assets reclassified from available for sale category, income or loss recognised in other comprehensive income would have been as follows: Certificates of Deposit of National Ministry of Bank of Finance Government In thousands of GEL Georgia Treasury Bills notes Year 2015 16,185 280 2016 3,694 24 2017 4,961 12 Other Financial Assets In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Receivables on credit card services and money transfers 26,703 24,801 15,072 Prepayments for purchase of leasing assets 25,478 10,628 9,390 Receivables on guarantees letters of credit 20,983 18,215 16,435 Bank assurance income receivable 15,923 4,549 4,450 Insurance and reinsurance receivables 15,742 2,249 Trade receivable 13,862 2,232 1,202 Receivable on terminated leases 8,961 7,832 4,404 Receivables on repossessed assets disposed 6,619 10,603 672 Factored receivables 6,182 900 2,859 Rental income receivables 4,414 3,816 4,309 Other 19,297 15,462 11,416 Less: Provision for impairment 18,020 6,660 5,892 Total other financial assets 146,144 94,627 64,317 Movements in the provision for impairment of other financial assets during 2017 were as follows: Receivables on terminated In thousands of GEL leases Other Total Provision for impairment as of 1January 2017 4,666 1,994 6,660 Provision for impairment during the year 1,568 10,645 12,213 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 1,011 1,011 Recovery of amounts previously written off 189 189 Foreign exchange translation gains less losses 31 31 Provision for impairment as of 31December 2017 6,234 11,786 18,020 Additions less releases recorded in profit or loss for provision for impairment of other financial assets include write-off of insurance debtors in the amount of GEL 226 thousand that are included in insurance and reinsurance receivables.
Movements in the provision for impairment of other financial assets during 2016 were as follows: Receivables on terminated In thousands of GEL leases Other Total Provision for impairment as of 1January 2016 3,561 2,331 5,892 Business combination 72 72 Provision for impairment during the year 1,105 1,748 2,853 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 2,370 2,370 Recovery of amounts previously written off 213 213 Provision for impairment as of 31December 2016 4,666 1,994 6,660 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 195 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 12 Other Financial Assets continued Movements in the provision for impairment of other financial assets during 2015 are as follows: Receivables on terminated In thousands of GEL leases Other Total Provision for impairment as of 1January 2015 2,573 1,657 4,230 Provision for impairment during the year 988 2,363 3,351 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 1,721 1,721 Recovery of amounts previously written off 32 32 Provision for impairment as of 31December 2015 3,561 2,331 5,892 The table below illustrates the credit quality of other financial receivables: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Neither past due nor impairment Receivables on credit card services and money transfers 26,703 24,801 15,072 Prepayments for purchase of leasing assets 25,478 10,628 9,390 Bank assurance income receivable 15,923 4,549 4,450 Insurance and reinsurance receivables 15,742 2,249 Trade receivable 13,862 2,232 1,202 Receivables on repossessed assets disposed 6,481 5,700 534 Factored receivables 6,182 900 2,859 Rental income receivables 4,414 3,816 4,309 Receivables on guarantees letters of credit 2,990 1,089 939 Other 14,120 9,496 9,087 Total neither past due nor impaired 131,895 65,460 47,842 Past due but not impaired Receivables on guarantees More than 90 days overdue 16,773 17,126 15,496 Total past due but not impaired 16,773 17,126 15,496 Receivables individually determined to be impaired gross Receivables on terminated leases 8,961 7,832 4,404 Less than 90 days overdue More than 90 days overdue 8,961 7,832 4,404 Receivables on guarantees and letters of credit 1,220 Less than 90 days overdue More than 90 days overdue 1,220 Receivables on repossessed assets disposed 138 4,903 138 Less than 90 days overdue More than 90 days overdue 138 4,903 138 Other receivables 5,177 5,966 2,329 Less than 90 days overdue More than 90 days overdue 5,177 5,966 2,329 Total individually impaired gross 15,496 18,701 6,871 Less impairment provision 18,020 6,660 5,892 Total other financial assets 146,144 94,627 64,317 196 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 12 Other Financial Assets continued Credit rating of other financial assets neither past due nor impaired is as follows: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 A 13,003 2,508 2,018 A 4,116 14,086 8,700 BBB 6,265 845 286 BB 217 - - BB- 7 - - B 4,332 1,007 322 B 726 2,645 2,281 Not rated 103,229 44,369 34,235 Total 131,895 65,460 47,842 Impaired receivables include receivables on terminated leases and other receivables for which impairment provision was assessed individually.
A receivables overdue status is a primary factor for the Group to consider a receivable as impaired.
Receivables on terminated leases individually determined to be impaired are under-collateralised and their estimated fair value of collateral amounts to GEL 1,206 thousand 2016: GEL 2,039 thousand: 2015: GEL 1,253 thousand.
The remaining assets are not collateralised.
13 Investments in Finance Lease As of 31 December 2017 investments in finance lease of GEL 143,836 thousand 2016: GEL 95,031 thousand: 2015: GEL 75,760 thousand are represented by leases of fixed assets excluding land and buildings.
Finance lease payments receivable gross investment in the leases and their present values are as follows: Due between In thousands of GEL Due in 1 year 1 and 5 years Total Finance lease payments receivable as of 31 December 2017 86,186 105,595 191,781 Unearned finance income 23,720 22,727 46,447 Impairment loss provision 765 733 1,498 Present value of lease payments receivable as of 31 December 2017 61,701 82,135 143,836 Finance lease payments receivable as of 31 December 2016 65,265 56,672 121,937 Unearned finance income 15,302 10,462 25,764 Impairment loss provision 678 464 1,142 Present value of lease payments receivable as of 31 December 2016 49,285 45,746 95,031 Finance lease payments receivable as of 31 December 2015 54,546 43,091 97,637 Unearned finance income 13,147 7,992 21,139 Impairment loss provision 459 279 738 Present value of lease payments receivable at 31 December 2015 40,940 34,820 75,760 For fair values refer to Note 42.
The table below illustrates the movements in the provision for impairment of net investment in finance lease: 31 December 31 December 31 December In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Provision for impairment at the beginning of the year 1,142 738 195 Provision for impairment during the year 492 558 967 Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible 136 154 424 Provision for impairment at the end of the year 1,498 1,142 738 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 197 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 13 Investments in Finance Lease continued Credit quality of net investment in finance lease is analysed below: 31 December 31 December 31 December In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Neither past due nor impaired Customers with more than two year experience 22,705 28,084 20,612 New customers 90,668 45,404 46,431 Total neither past due nor impaired 113,373 73,488 67,043 Past due but not impaired Less than 30 days overdue 19,047 15,357 4,285 31 to 90 days overdue 9,310 5,101 1,694 Total past due but not impaired 28,357 20,458 5,979 Impaired leases Not overdue 1,639 1 to 30 days overdue 332 31 days to 90 days overdue 343 33 From 91 to 180 days 2,204 1,079 950 From 181 to 360 days 339 966 522 More than 360 days 718 182 Total impaired gross 3,604 2,227 3,476 Total investment in finance lease 145,334 96,173 76,498 Impairment loss provision 1,498 1,142 738 Total net investment in finance lease 143,836 95,031 75,760 Total impaired leases include both collectively and individually impaired leases The Group applied the portfolio provisioning methodology prescribed by IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and created portfolio provisions for impairment losses that were incurred but have not been specifically identified with any individual lease by the reporting date.
The Groups policy is to classify each lease as neither past due nor impaired until specific objective evidence of impairment of the lease is identified.
The primary factors taken into account to consider whether or not a lease is impaired are the deterioration of the lessees financial position, its overdue status, and liquidity of the leased asset.
The Group normally structures its finance lease contracts so that the lessee makes a minimum prepayment of 20% of the equipment purchase price at the inception of the lease term.
The Group holds title to the leased assets during the lease term.
The title to the asset under the finance lease contract is transferred to the lessees at the end of the contracts terms, including full repayment of lease payments.
Generally the lease terms are up to five years.
The amount and type of collateral required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the counterparty.
The main types of collateral obtained are: Leased assets inventory and equipment : Down payment: Real estate properties: Third party guarantees.
The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2017: Over-collateralised Under-collateralised assets assets Carrying Carrying value of the Fair value of value of the Fair value of In thousands of GEL assets collateral assets collateral Investment in leases 96,015 153,813 49,319 9,710 Total 96,015 153,813 49,319 9,710 198 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 13 Investments in Finance Lease continued The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2016: Over-collateralised Under-collateralised assets assets Carrying Carrying value of the Fair value of value of the Fair value of In thousands of GEL assets collateral assets collateral Investment in leases 75,364 112,917 20,809 16,817 Total 75,364 112,917 20,809 16,817 The effect of collateral as of 31 December 2015: Over-collateralised Under-collateralised assets assets Carrying Carrying value of the Fair value of value of the Fair value of In thousands of GEL assets collateral assets collateral Investment in leases 69,048 103,416 7,450 5,532 Total 69,048 103,416 7,450 5,532 14 Other Assets In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Current other assets Inventories of repossessed collateral 116,809 90,873 85,216 Other inventories 4,194 3,973 3,666 Prepayments for other assets 9,721 28,660 3,134 Prepaid taxes other than income tax 5,788 3,326 2,659 Other debtor 35,497 Total current other assets 136,512 162,329 94,675 Non-current other assets Assets repossessed from terminated leases 3,210 2,673 4,543 Prepayments for construction in progress 2,745 2,445 2,578 Assets purchased for leasing purposes 2,733 286 865 Prepaid insurance of leasing assets 1,884 937 739 Other 9,567 2,593 512 Total non-current other assets 20,139 8,934 9,237 Total other assets 156,651 171,263 103,912 Included in Other Debtors is receivable from one corporate client, in respect of settlement of previously written-off loan.
Inventories of repossessed collateral represent real estate assets and equipment acquired by the Group in settlement of impaired loans, other than those classified as investment property or premises and equipment.
The Group expects to dispose these assets in the foreseeable future.
Such assets are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at lower of cost and net realisable value.
In 2017, collateral repossessed for settlement of impaired loans amounted to GEL 53 million 2016: GEL 39 million: 2015: GEL 34 million.
With regards to certain inventories of repossessed collaterals, the Group has granted previous owners a right to repurchase the inventories at prices equal to or higher than the carrying value of the loan at the date of repossession.
This right is usually effective for a period of 6 to 18 months from the date of repossession, during this time the Group is obliged not to dispose of the repossessed collateral to third parties.
As of 31 December 2017, the carrying value of the inventories of repossessed collateral subjected to the repurchase agreement was GEL 11,170 thousand 2016: GEL 20,342 thousand: 2015: GEL 23,639 thousand.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 199 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 15 Premises, Equipment and Intangible Assets Land, Premises and Office and Construction Total leasehold Other in premises and Intangible In thousands of GEL Note improvements equipment progress equipment Assets Total Cost or valuation as of 1 January 2015 142,724 130,543 35,267 308,534 55,231 363,765 Accumulated depreciation amortisation Including accumulated impairment loss 26,622 73,220 99,842 17,475 117,317 Carrying amount as of 1January 2015 116,102 57,323 35,267 208,692 37,756 246,448 Additions 2,470 24,167 3,841 30,478 17,337 47,815 Transfers within premises and equipment 1,717 0 1,717 0 0 Transfers from Investment Property, net 16 646 646 646 Disposals 324 1,201 864 2,389 199 2,588 Revaluation 15,249 13,506 28,755 28,755 Effect of translation to presentation currency Cost 374 536 910 43 953 Impairment charge to profit and loss 18 311 293 4,982 5,275 Depreciation amortisation charge 3,502 15,632 19,134 5,758 24,892 Elimination of accumulated depreciation amortisation on disposals 217 952 1,169 197 1,366 Effect of translation to presentation currency Accumulated depreciation 362 391 753 36 789 Carrying amount as of 31December 2015 132,581 65,153 50,033 247,767 44,344 292,111 Cost or valuation as of 31December 2015 162,126 152,662 50,033 364,821 67,344 432,165 Accumulated depreciation amortisation including accumulated impairment loss 29,545 87,509 117,054 23,000 140,054 Carrying amount as of 31December 2015 132,581 65,153 50,033 247,767 44,344 292,111 Additions 5,555 19,369 6,206 31,130 18,904 50,034 Business combination 50,049 8,260 36 58,345 6,761 65,106 Transfers within premises and equipment 3,042 3,042 Transfers to Repossessed assets 298 298 298 Disposals 2,571 3,836 69 6,476 4 6,480 Effect of translation to presentation currency Cost 31 45 76 12 88 Impairment charge to profit and loss 574 675 1,249 2,043 3,292 Depreciation amortisation charge 3,269 16,895 20,164 6,981 27,145 Elimination of accumulated depreciation amortisation on disposals 2,439 2,555 4,994 4,994 Effect of translation to presentation currency Accumulated depreciation 27 32 59 12 47 Carrying amount as of 31December 2016 186,950 73,918 53,164 314,032 60,957 374,989 Cost or valuation as of 31December 2016 217,299 175,636 53,164 446,099 90,950 537,049 Accumulated depreciation amortisation including accumulated impairment loss 30,349 101,718 132,067 29,993 162,060 Carrying amount as of 31December 2016 186,950 73,918 53,164 314,032 60,957 374,989 200 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 15 Premises, Equipment and Intangible Assets continued Land, Premises and Office and Construction Total leasehold Other in premises and Intangible In thousands of GEL Note improvements equipment progress equipment Assets Total Additions 5,684 26,179 48,663 80,526 34,877 115,403 Transfers within premises and equipment 11,326 11,326 Transfer from investment property 1,114 1,114 1,114 Disposals 2,324 9,638 11,962 88 12,050 Revaluation 261 261 261 Effect of translation to presentation currency Cost 25 54 79 11 90 Impairment charge to profit and loss 6 730 46 782 1,916 2,698 Depreciation amortisation charge 5,567 20,096 25,663 10,436 36,099 Elimination of accumulated depreciation amortisation on disposals 747 8,636 9,383 30 9,413 Effect of translation to presentation currency Accumulated depreciation 25 50 75 57 18 Carrying amount as of 31December 2017 197,924 78,534 90,455 366,913 83,492 450,405 Cost or valuation as of 31December 2017 233,118 191,762 90,455 515,335 123,834 639,169 Accumulated depreciation amortisation including accumulated impairment loss 35,194 113,228 148,422 40,342 188,764 Carrying amount as of 31December 2017 197,924 78,534 90,455 366,913 83,492 450,405 Office and other equipment include furniture and fixtures, computer and office equipment, motor vehicles as well as other equipment.
In year 2017, in additions of construction in progress is included property repossessed from debtor in the amount of GEL 39 million.
Depreciation and amortisation charge presented on the face of the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income include depreciation and amortisation charge of premises and equipment, investment properties and intangible assets.
Construction in progress consists of construction and refurbishment of branch premises and the Banks new headquarters.
Upon completion, assets are to be transferred to premises.
Premises were revalued to market value on 30 September 2015.
The valuation was carried out by an independent firm of valuators which holds a recognised and relevant professional qualification and who have recent experience in valuation of assets of similar location and category.
In the process of comparison, they have used three comparative analogues registered sale and or offer for sale, in which prices were applied adjustments based on the difference between subject assets and analogues.
Most of the assets have been estimated by using the market approach method due to the market situation, namely by existence of a sufficient number of registered sales and proposals by the date of valuation.
At acquisition date valuation of Bank Republics assets has been performed.
Fair value of respective assets disclosure is below.
The management considers that the fair value has not changed significantly between 30 September 2015 and 31 December 2017.
Fair value as of 20 Fair value as of 30 In thousands of GEL October 2016 September 2015 Range of unobser vable inputs except for range of inputs acquisition date valuation date Valuation technique Other key information Unobservable inputs weighted average Land 472 3,432 797 Sales comparison Price per Office buildings 30,753 51,115 approach Buildings square metre 601 6,598 1,781 Land 2 3,427 280 Sales comparison Price per Branches 18,645 124,069 approach Buildings square metre 452 11,514 2,360 As of 31 December 2017 the carrying amount of premises would have been GEL 144,778 thousand 2016: GEL 134,352 thousand: 2015: GEL 79,952 thousand had the assets been carried at cost less depreciation and impairment losses.
At 31 December 2017 the carrying amount of construction in progress would have been GEL 67,033 thousand 2016: GEL 30,394 thousand: 2015: GEL 27,284 thousand had the assets been carried at cost less impairment losses.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 201 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 16 Investment Properties In thousands of GEL Note 2017 2016 2015 Gross book value as of 1 January 99,347 60,648 78,699 Accumulated depreciation as of 1 January 3,732 3,048 2,483 Carrying amount as of 1 January 95,615 57,600 76,216 Transfer to premises and equipment 15 1,143 646 Transfer from inventories of repossessed collateral 752 15,935 778 Transfer to Repossessed Collateral 590 Addition from foreclosure 943 6,820 Disposals at cost 15,438 6,892 18,101 Elimination of depreciation on disposal 259 253 829 Depreciation charge 1,166 937 1,394 Acquisition through business combination 22,836 Effect of translation to presentation currency 82 Gross book value as of 1 January 83,871 99,347 60,648 Accumulated depreciation as of 1 January 4,639 3,732 3,048 Carrying amount as of 31 December 79,232 95,615 57,600 As of 31 December 2017, investment properties comprised of 102 lots 2016: 62 lots: 2015: 8 lots of land and 144 buildings 2016: 141 buildings: 2015: 59 buildings located in Tbilisi and other regions of Georgia with the fair value amounting to GEL 85,012 thousand 2016: GEL 123,852 thousand: 2015: GEL 105,972 thousand.
For disclosure purposes a fair valuation exercise was carried out for Investment Properties as of 31 December 2017.
The valuation was carried out by internal valuators who hold a recognised and relevant professional qualification and who have recent experience in valuation of assets of similar location and category.
In the process of comparison, they have used three comparative analogues registered sale and or offer for sale, in which prices were applied with adjustments based on the difference between subject assets and analogues.
Most of the assets have been estimated by using the market approach method due to the market situation, particularly based on a sufficient number of registered sales and proposals by the date of valuation.
Fair value as of Fair value as of In thousands of GEL 20 October 2016 31 December 2017 Range of unobser vable except for range of inputs acquisition date valuation date Valuation technique Unobservable inputs inputs weighted average Land 3,398 29,611 Sales comparison approach Price per square metre 0.05 1,512 97 Buildings 19,438 55,401 Sales comparison approach Price per square metre 11 2,446 798 Where the Group is the lessor, the future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases, were as follows: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Not later than 1 year 177 463 186 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 805 Total operating lease payments receivable 177 1,268 186 202 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 17 Goodwill Movements in goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries are: 2017 2016 2015 Carrying amount as of 1 January 28,658 2,726 2,726 Acquisition of subsidiaries 25,932 Carrying amount as of 31 December 28,658 28,658 2,726 Goodwill Impairment Test Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs, which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored by Management and which are not larger than a segment as follows: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 JSC Bank Republic 24,166 24,166 Bank Republic Retail 11,088 Bank Republic Corporate 7,491 Bank Republic MSME 4,791 Bank Republic Other 796 CGU Micro 769 769 769 JSC United Financial Corporation 695 695 695 LLC TBC Kredit 1,262 1,262 1,262 JSC TBC Insurance 1,766 1,766 Total carrying amount of goodwill 28,658 28,658 2,726 Due to Bank Republic merger in 2017, carrying amount of goodwill was allocated across multiple CGUs of the Bank, that is also equal to the operating and reporting segments.
The recoverable amount of each CGU was determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the management covering a five-year period.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates stated below.
Assumptions used for value-in-use calculations to which the recoverable amount is most sensitive were: 2017 2016 2015 JSC Bank Republic Growth rate beyond five years of Free Cash Flow to equity 4.17% p. a.
21.72% p. a. CGU SME JSC Bank Constanta Growth rate beyond five years of Free Cash Flow to equity 4.17% p. a.
24.74% p. a. JSC United Financial Corporation Growth rate beyond five years of Free Cash Flow to equity 4.17% p. a.
29.73% p. a. LLC TBC Kredit Growth rate beyond five years of Free Cash Flow to equity 1.3% p. a.
27.05% p. a. JSC TBC Insurance Growth rate beyond five years of Free Cash Flow to equity 4.17% p. a.
19.50% p. a. Assumptions related to JSC Bank Republic are similar for all related CGUs.
The management determined the budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its market expectations.
The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in the industry reports.
The discount rates reflect specific risks related to the relevant CGUs.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of CGU Bank Republic Retail had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU.
Recoverable amount of Bank Republic Retail CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 781,330 thousand.
The CGU's carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 29.92% p. a. TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 203 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 17 Goodwill continued If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of CGU Bank Republic Corporate had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU.
Recoverable amount of Bank Republic Retail CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 402,679 thousand.
The CGU's carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 27.97% p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of CGU Bank Republic MSME had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU.
Recoverable amount of Bank Republic Retail CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 246,759 thousand.
The CGU's carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 27.11% p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of JSC Bank Republic as of 31 December 2016 had been 10percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU 2015: nil.
Recoverable amount of JSC Bank Republic CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 1,295,196, thousand 2015: nil.
The CGU's carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 71.58% p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of CGU Micro JSC Bank Constanta had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU 2016: nil: 2015: nil.
Recoverable amount of CGU Micro JSC Bank Constanta CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 440,075 thousand 2016: GEL 284,402 thousand: 2015: GEL 156,283 thousand.
The CGU's carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 34.60% p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of JSC United Financial Corporation had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU 2016: nil and nil: 2015: nil and nil.
Recoverable amount of JSC United Financial Corporation CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 17,866 thousand 2016: GEL 13,073 thousand: 2015: GEL 6,856 thousand.
The CGUs' carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 39.27% p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of LLC TBC Kredit had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of goodwill 2016:nil: 2015: nil.
Recoverable amount of LLC TBC Kredit CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 36,420 thousand 2016: GEL 20,505 thousand: 2015: GEL 61,268 thousand.
The CGUs' carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate 119.51% of p. a.
If the revised estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted cash flows of JSC TBC Insurance had been 10 percentage points higher than the managements estimates, the Group would not need to reduce the carrying value of either goodwill or carrying value of net assets of the CGU 2016: nil: 2015: nil.
Recoverable amount of JSC TBC Insurance CGU exceeds its carrying amount by GEL 51,549 thousand 2016: GEL 58,588 thousand: 2015: nil.
The CGU's carrying amount would equal its value in use at a discount rate of 63.63% p. a.
18 Due to Credit Institutions In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Due to other banks Correspondent accounts and overnight placements 21,777 22,872 47,342 Deposits from banks 64,441 176,443 25,936 Short-term loans from banks 117,592 Total due to other banks 86,218 316,907 73,278 Other borrowed funds Borrowings from foreign banks and financial institutions 1,591,778 1,412,095 678,946 Borrowings from local banks and financial institutions 908,271 439,234 355,664 Borrowings from Ministry of Finance 2,914 4,203 5,686 Borrowings from other financial institutions 31,533 25,138 Total other borrowed funds 2,534,496 1,880,670 1,040,296 Total amounts due to credit institutions 2,620,714 2,197,577 1,113,574 As of 31 December 2017 for the purposes of maturity analysis of financial liabilities Note 36 the above-mentioned loans are included within the amounts for which repayment is expected within 3 months.
204 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 19 Customer Accounts In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 State and public organisations Current settlement accounts 810,783 240,743 152,438 Term deposits 209,641 78,990 86,828 Other legal entities Current settlement accounts 2,207,630 2,143,483 1,276,141 Term deposits 210,498 243,582 126,042 Individuals Current demand accounts 1,973,685 1,618,434 944,215 Term deposits 2,404,580 2,129,717 1,592,267 Total customer accounts 7,816,817 6,454,949 4,177,931 State and public organisations include government owned profit orientated businesses.
As of 31 December 2017 the Group had 261 customers 2016: 222 customers: 2015: 140 customers with balances above GEL3,000 thousand.
Their aggregate balance was GEL3,439,673 thousand 2016: GEL2,539,513 thousand: 2015: GEL1,432,724 thousand or 44% of total customer accounts 2016: 39%: 2015: 34%.
As of 31 December 2017 included in customer accounts are deposits of GEL 11,040 thousand and GEL 120,406 thousand 2016: GEL 13,355 thousand and GEL 119,146 thousand: 2015: GEL 999 thousand and GEL 77,304 thousand held as collateral for irrevocable commitments under letters of credit and guarantees issued, respectively.
As of 31 December 2017, deposits held as collateral for loans to customers amounted to GEL 224,899 thousand 2016: GEL 342,365 thousand: 2015: 241,782 thousand.
Refer to Note 42 for the disclosure of the fair value of each class of customer accounts.
Information on related party balances is disclosed in Note44.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 205 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 20 Debt Securities in Issue Carrying amount in GEL as of Effective In thousands of GEL Currency 31 December 2017 Maturity Date Coupon rate interest rate Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 7,637 22-Jul-19 7.3% 8.1% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 5,224 16-May-19 8.0% 8.7% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 7,834 15-Aug-18 7.8% 8.6% Total debt securities in issue 20,695 Carrying amount in GEL as of Effective In thousands of GEL Currency 31 December 2016 Maturity Date Coupon rate interest rate Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 5,312 3-Sep-17 8.4% 9.2% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 5,237 15-Aug-18 7.8% 8.6% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 5,198 16-May-19 8.0% 8.7% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 7,761 22-Jul-19 7.3% 8.1% Total debt securities in issue 23,508 Carrying amount in GEL as of 31 Effective In thousands of GEL Currency December 2015 Maturity Date Coupon rate interest rate Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 12,220 21-Jul-16 9.0% 9.7% Bonds issued on Georgian market USD 4,798 3-Sep-17 8.4% 9.2% Bonds issued on Azerbaijani market AZN 4,696 16-Apr-16 9.0% 9.7% Total debt securities in issue 21,714 Refer to Note 42 for the disclosure of the fair value of debt securities in issue.
21 Provisions for Performance Guarantees, Credit Related Commitments and Liabilities and Charges Movements in provisions for performance guarantees, credit related commitment and liabilities and charges are as follows: Perfor mance Credit related In thousands of GEL guarantees commitments Other Total Carrying amount as of 1January 2015 4,912 3,266 3,720 11,898 Charges less releases recorded in profit or loss 3,440 2,323 1,102 15 Utilisation of provision 2,422 2,422 Carrying amount as of 31December 2015 1,472 5,589 2,400 9,461 Charges less releases recorded in profit or loss 452 1,223 2,528 3,299 Assuming guarantees following asset purchase 909 909 Additions through Business Combinations 706 1,237 414 2,357 Carrying amount as of 31December 2016 2,635 8,049 5,342 16,026 Charges less releases recorded in profit or loss 579 190 332 721 Utilisation of provision 2,116 2,116 Effect of translation to presentation currency 11 11 Carrying amount as of 31December 2017 2,067 8,239 2,894 13,200 Credit related commitments and performance guarantees: Provision was created against losses incurred on financial and performance guarantees and commitments to extend credit to borrowers whose financial conditions deteriorated.
Impairment allowance estimation methods differ for i letter of credits and guarantees and ii undrawn credit lines.
206 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 21 Provisions for Performance Guarantees, Credit Related Commitments and Liabilities and Charges continued For letter of credits and guarantees allowance estimation purposes the Bank classifies borrowers as significant and non-significant ones.
Triggered significant guarantees and letter of credits are assessed for impairment on an individual basis, whereas for not triggered significant and all non-significant ones the Bank estimates allowances applying statistical risk parameters, such as credit conversion factor and loss given default.
Undrawn credit lines are classified as committed and uncommitted exposures, with impairment allowance created for committed ones.
The undrawn part of the credit lines is multiplied by the respective credit conversion factor and provisioned in the similar manner as corresponding on balance sheet exposures.
Provisions for liabilities, charges, performance guarantees and credit related commitments are primarily expected to be utilised within twelve months after the year-end.
Additions less releases recorded in profit or loss for Other provisions does not include gross change in total reserves for insurance claims in amount of GEL 1,621 thousands 2016: GEL 318 thousand that are included in net claims incurred.
Additions less releases recorded in profit or loss for provision for impairment of credit related commitments include provision for insurance receivables in the amount of GEL 542 thousand that are included in charges less releases recorded in profit or loss for Other provision.
22 Other Financial Liabilities Other financial liabilities comprise the following: In thousands of GEL Note 2017 2016 2015 Trade payables 31,497 16,612 10,264 Security deposits for finance lease 20,647 8,241 6,022 Insurance Contracts Liabilities 10,992 486 Debit or credit card payables 10,567 12,066 12,478 Derivative financial liabilities 41 575 1,298 2,411 Other accrued liabilities 17,475 12,295 8,260 Total other financial liabilities 91,753 50,998 39,435 Refer to Note 42 for disclosure of the fair value of other financial liabilities.
23 Other Liabilities Other liabilities comprise the following: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Accrued employee benefit costs 42,497 38,317 22,385 Taxes payable other than on income 14,180 16,723 11,584 Advances received 10,350 6,284 4,764 Other 17,413 5,415 1,894 Total other liabilities 84,440 66,739 40,627 All of the above liabilities are expected to be settled within twelve months after the year-end.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 207 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 24 Subordinated Debt As of 31 December 2017, subordinated debt comprised of: Outstanding amount in Outstanding original amount in In thousands of GEL Grant Date Maturity Date Currency currency GEL Deutsche Investitions und  MBH 19-Feb-08 15-Jul-18 USD 10,467 27,134 Deutsche Investitions und  MBH 26-Jun-13 15-Jun-20 USD 7,496 19,430 Nederlandse  Voor Ontwikkelingslanden N. V. 19-Dec-13 15-Apr-23 USD 35,577 92,222 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 10-Jun-14 8-May-21 GEL 6,161 6,161 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 4-May-15 8-May-21 GEL 6,737 6,737 Green for Growth Fund 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 15,259 39,554 European Fund for Southeast Europe 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 7,640 19,805 European Fund for Southeast Europe 15-Mar-16 15-Mar-26 USD 7,639 19,802 Asian Development Bank ADB 18-Oct-16 18-Oct-26 USD 50,467 130,822 Private lenders 30-Jun-17 30-Jun-23 USD 24,114 62,508 THALES 5-Nov-14 5-Dec-18 USD 1,008 2,613 Total subordinated debt 426,788 As of 31 December 2016, subordinated debt comprised of: Outstanding amount in Outstanding original amount in In thousands of GEL Grant Date Maturity Date Currency currency GEL Deutsche Investitions und  MBH 19-Feb-08 15-Jul-18 USD 10,446 27,649 Deutsche Investitions und  MBH 26-Jun-13 15-Jun-20 USD 7,480 19,799 Nederlandse  Voor Ontwikkelingslanden N. V. 19-Dec-13 15-Apr-23 USD 35,474 93,891 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 10-Jun-14 8-May-21 GEL 6,162 6,162 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 4-May-15 8-May-21 GEL 6,737 6,737 Green for Growth Fund 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 15,239 40,335 European Fund for Southeast Europe 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 7,631 20,197 European Fund for Southeast Europe 15-Mar-16 15-Mar-26 USD 7,629 20,194 Asian Developement Bank ADB 18-Oct-16 18-Oct-26 USD 50,407 133,417 Total subordinated debt 368,381 As of 31 December 2015, subordinated debt comprised of: Outstanding amount in Outstanding original amount in In thousands of GEL Grant Date Maturity Date Currency currency GEL Deutsche Investitions und  MBH 19-Feb-08 15-Jul-18 USD 10,427 24,971 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 23-Apr-09 12-Nov-18 USD 18,729 44,855 International Financial Corporation 23-Apr-09 12-Nov-18 USD 18,716 44,823 Deutsche Investitions und  MBH 26-Jun-13 15-Jun-20 USD 7,466 17,880 Nederlandse  Voor Ontwikkelingslanden N. V. 19-Dec-13 15-Apr-23 USD 35,373 84,715 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 10-Jun-14 8-May-21 GEL 6,162 6,162 Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaufbau Bankengruppe 4-May-15 8-May-21 GEL 6,739 6,739 Green for Growth Fund 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 14,892 35,666 European Fund for Southeast Europe 18-Dec-15 18-Dec-25 USD 7,448 17,837 Total subordinated debt 283,648 The debt ranks after all other creditors in case of liquidation.
Refer to Note 42 for the disclosure of the fair value of subordinated debt.
208 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 25 Share Capital Number of In thousands of GEL except for number of shares ordinary shares Share capital As of 1 January 2015 49,246,308 19,699 Share split 284,560 113 Shares issued 1,405 1 As of 31 December 2015 49,529,463 19,811 Increase in share capital arising from share based payment 525,456 210 Conversion of shares following the Tender Offer 895,039 358 Share capital adjustment for new nominal value 18,169 Shares issued 3,006,823 87 As of 31 December 2016 52,166,703 1,581 Shares issued 516,140 16 Scrip dividend issued 146,903 5 Share exchange 102,121 3 As of 31 December 2017 52,931,867 1,605 895,039 is the number of JSC TBC Bank shares that were not converted into the TBC Bank Group PLC shares Negative GEL 18,169 thousand is effect of nominal value adjustment whereby the nominal value of 49,159,880 TBC Bank Group PLC shares was changed from GEL 0.4 to one British Penny translated in GEL with the official exchange rate on share conversion date On 4 March 2014, Shareholders of the Bank approved the spilt of the ordinary shares 250-for-1 and authorised the issue of additional 10,445,387 shares.
"In June 2014, 19,684,322 shares of the Bank were sold in the form of Global Depositary Receipts GDRs"" on the London Stock Exchange the LSE"" pursuant to an initial public offering to institutional investors."
7,692,308 shares in the form of GDRs were sold by the Bank while the balance was sold by the selling shareholders.
"Bank of New York BNY"" acted as a depositary of these shares."
Each GDR represented 1 ordinary share of the Bank.
On 4 August 2016, the Group completed the Tender Offer under which 49,159,880 of the Banks shares then outstanding or 98.21%, were converted into 49,159,880 shares of TBC Bank Group PLC Note 1.
As of 31 December 2017 the total authorised number of ordinary shares was 52,931,867 shares 31 December 2016: 52,166,703 shares: 31 December 2015: 49,529,463 shares.
Each share has a nominal value of one British Penny 31 December 2015: GEL 0.4 per share.
All issued ordinary shares are fully paid and entitled to dividends.
Following the Admission Note 1, TBCG's Directors undertook a reduction of capital in order to create distributable reserves for TBCG.
The original difference between the fair value of the Banks shares and the nominal value of TBCG's shares was credited to the merger reserve created in connection with the Tender Offer.
Each TBCG share had an original Tender Offer nominal value of GBP 5.00 and the minimum premium amount required by the Company Act 2006 of GEL 565,030 thousand was transferred to share premium.
Following the capital cut the nominal value of TBCG shares was reduced to GBP 0.01.
The capital cut created a new reserve on the statement of TBCG's financial position comprising of the reduction of the original nominal value from GBP 5.00 to GBP 0.01 per share amounting to GEL 745,637 thousand.
The reduction represents a legal and accounting adjustment and did not, in itself, have any direct impact on TBCG shares market value.
As a result of the reduction, the Groups total additional paid-in capital outstanding at the time became distributable to the shareholders and was fully reclassified to retained earnings.
These transactions were treated as a reorganisation of an existing entity that has not changed the substance of the reporting entity.
The consolidated financial statements of TBCG are presented using the values from the consolidated financial statements of JSC TBC Bank.
"On the date that TBCG became the new parent of the Group, the statutory amounts of share capital and share premium of the Company have been recognised through an adjustment in the Statement of Changes in Equity under the heading Change of parent company to TBCG""."
The resulting difference has been recognised as a component of equity under the heading Group reorganisation reserve.
On 5 June 2017, at the annual general meeting TBC Bank Group PLC's shareholders agreed on a dividend of GEL 1.42 per share, based on the 2016 audited financial statements.
The dividend was recorded on 9 June 2017 and on 14 July 2017 shareholders received the payment of the total GEL 74,809 dividends.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 209 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 25 Share Capital continued On 25 April 2016, at the annual general meeting JSC TBC Banks shareholders agreed on a dividend of GEL 1.09 per share, based on the 2015 audited financial statements.
The dividend was recorded on 3 May 2016 and on 11 May 2016 shareholders received the payment of the total GEL 54,560 thousand dividends.
On 19 May 2015, at the annual general meeting JSC TBC Banks shareholders agreed on a dividend of GEL 0.79 per share, based on the 2014 audited financial statements.
The dividend was recorded on 26 May 2015 and on 2 June 2015 shareholders received the payment of the total GEL 39,128 thousand dividends.
26 Share Based Payments June 2013 arrangement: In June 2013, the Banks Supervisory Board approved a new management compensation scheme for the years 2013 - 2015 and authorised a maximum of 4,150 new shares to be issued in accordance with the scheme.
The authorised number of new shares has increased to 1,037,500 in order to reflect the share split 250-for-1 approved by the shareholders on 4 March 2014.
According to the scheme, each year, subject to predefined performance conditions a certain number of shares were awarded to the top management and some of the middle managers of the Group.
The performance evaluation is divided into i team goals and ii individual performance indicators.
The total number of the shares to be awarded legally transferred depends on meeting the team goals and the book value per share according to the audited IFRS consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year preceding the award date.
The team goals primarily focus on meeting the target for growth, profitability and portfolio quality metrics set by the Supervisory Board as well as compliance with certain regulatory requirements.
The total number of shares in the bonus pool depends on achieving the team goals.
Individual performance indicators are defined on an individual basis and are used to calculate the number of shares to be awarded to each employee out of the total bonus pool.
Once awarded, these shares carry service conditions and, before those conditions are met, are eligible to dividends.
However, they do not carry voting rights and cannot be sold or transferred to third parties.
Service conditions foresee continuous employment until the gradual transfer of the full title to the scheme participants is complete.
Shares for each of the 2013, 2014 and 2015 tranche gradually ran over on the second, third and fourth year following the performance appraisal.
Eighty percent of the shares were vested in the fourth year after being awarded.
Under this compensation system the total vesting period extends to June 2019.
Under the new management compensation scheme, both shareholders and Supervisory Board hold put options on the shares to be awarded.
In addition, they both hold put options on all bonus shares awarded under the previous share based payment arrangements.
All the put options became null and void upon the listing on the LSE in June 2014.
At no point of the operation of the share based payment scheme did the management expect the put options to be exercised.
Consequently, the scheme was accounted for as equity-settled scheme and no obligation was recognised for the put-options.
In 2013 the Group considered 20 June as the grant date.
Based on the managements expectation of performance and service conditions, 732,000 shares have been granted and will be gradually awarded to the members of the described scheme.
An external evaluator assessed the fair value per share at the grant date at GEL 13.93 adjusted for the effect of 250-for-1 share split Income and market approaches were applied for the evaluation.
The market approach involved an estimate of the market capitalisation to book value of equity multiple and deal price to book value of equity multiple for comparable banks.
When selecting comparable banks, the appraiser chose lenders operating in the Black Sea region and Central and Eastern Europe with a portfolio mix and growth priorities similar to TBC Bank.
The income approach involved discounting free cash flows to equity estimated over a 10-year horizon.
When developing the projections, the following major assumptions were made: Over the 2013 - 2023 periods, the compound annual growth rate was assumed at 15.2% for loans and at 15.1% for customer accounts: The spread on the Banks customer business was assumed to gradually decline from an estimated 10.2% in 2013 to stabilize at 5.8% by 2021: Over 2013 - 2023 period, non-interest income was forecast to average 1.8% of customer volume ie gross loans and deposits : Year-on-year growth in various components of employees compensation was assumed at 37.6% - 56.0% in 2014, 2.4% - 9.8% in 2015 and was then assumed to gradually decline to 2.1% - 3.6% in 2023.
Year-on-year growth in administrative expenses was assumed at 38.3% in 2014, 10.4% in 2015 and to gradually decline to 3.3% in 2023: The Banks terminal value was estimated using the Gordon growth model, applying US long-term inflation forecast 2.1% as the Banks terminal cash flows growth rate: Banks cost of equity was estimated at 15.10%.
The final valuation was based on the income approach and the market one was used to check the results obtained by the former.
The calculated value of Banks equity was then divided by the number of ordinary shares issued as of date and further reduced with the discount for lack of control.
210 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 26 Share Based Payments continued June 2015 arrangement: In June 2015, the Banks Supervisory Board approved a new management compensation scheme for the top and middle management and it accordingly authorised the issue of a maximum 3,115,890 new shares.
The new system will be enforced from 2015 through 2018, replacing the system introduced in June 2013 the performance evaluation as well as the respective compensation for 2015 year-end results will be paid under the new system.
According to the scheme, each year, subject to predefined performance conditions, a certain number of shares will be awarded to the Groups top managers and most of the middle ones.
The performance features key performance indicators KPIs divided into i corporate and ii individual.
The corporate KPIs are mainly related to achieving profitability, efficiency, and portfolio quality metrics set by the Supervisory Board as well as non-financial indicators with regards to customers experience and employees engagement.
The individual performance indicators are set on an individual basis and are used to calculate the number of shares to be awarded to each employee.
According to the scheme, members of top management will also receive the fixed number of shares.
Once awarded, all shares carry service conditions and, before those conditions are met, are eligible to dividends: however they do not carry voting rights and cannot be sold or transferred to third parties.
Shares for each of the 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 tranche gradually ran over on the second, third and fourth year following the performance appraisal.
Under this compensation system the total vesting period extends to March 2022.
In 2015 the Group considered 17 June as the grant date.
Based on the managements estimate of reached targets, as of 31 December 2015 1,908,960 shares were granted.
The shares will be gradually awarded to the members as per the described scheme.
At the grant date the fair value amounted to GEL 24.64 per share, as quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Following the listing on the Premium segment of the London Stock Exchange, the share-based payment scheme was updated, and TBC Bank Group PLC distributes its shares to the schemes participants.
The shares value is recharged to the JSC TBC Bank.
As a result, the accounting of the scheme did not change in the consolidated financial statements.
The Bank also pays personal income tax on behalf of equity settled scheme beneficiaries, which is accounted as cash settled part.
Tabular information on both of the schemes is given below: 31 December 31 December 31 December In GEL except for number of shares 2017 2016 2015 Number of unvested shares at the beginning of the period 2,622,707 2,756,605 803,336 Number of shares granted 1,908,963 Change in estimate of number of shares expected to vest based on performance conditions 13,100 11,904 75,016 Forfeited during the period 35,146 Number of shares vested 324,834 86,848 30,710 Number of unvested shares at the end of the period 2,284,773 2,622,707 2,756,605 Value at grant date per share GEL old remuneration system 13.93 13.93 13.93 Value at grant date per share GEL new remuneration system 24.64 24.64 24.64 Expense on equity-settled part GEL thousand 10,543 12,599 8,559 Decrease in equity due to utilisation of cash compensation alternative GEL thousand 817 Expense on cash-settled part GEL thousand 5,119 10,271 5,967 Expense recognised as staff cost during the period GEL thousand 15,662 22,053 14,526 Liability in respect of the cash-settled part of the award amounted to GEL 12,675 thousand as of 31 December 2017 2016: GEL 13,725 thousand: 2015: GEL 6,560 thousand.
Staff costs related to equity settled part of the share based payment schemes are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period of each relevant tranche and corresponding entry is credited to share based payment reserve in equity.
On 31 December 2017 based on level of achievement of key performance indicators the management has reassessed the number of shares that will have to be issued to the participants of the share based payment system and decreased estimated number of shares to vest by 13,100 31 December 2016: 11,904 shares: 31 December 2015: 75,016 shares.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 211 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 27 Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to the owners of the Bank by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In thousands of GEL except for number of shares 2017 2016 2015 Profit for the period attributable to the owners of the Bank excluding the profit attributable to 354,410 298,130 216,400 the shares encumbered under the share based payment scheme Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 52,685,702 49,592,658 48,962,112 Basic earnings per ordinary share attributable to the owners of the Bank expressed in GELper share 6.7 6.0 4.4 Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to owners of the Bank by the weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year: In thousands of GEL except for number of shares 2017 2016 2015 Profit for the period attributable to the owners of the Bank excluding the profit attributable to 354,410 299,037 218,227 the shares encumbered under the share based payment scheme Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares during the period 53,480,632 50,946,636 49,607,204 Diluted earnings per ordinary share attributable to the owners of the Bank expressed in GELper share 6.6 5.9 4.4 28 Segment Analysis The Management Board the Board is the chief operating decision maker and it reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess the performance and to allocate resources.
Following the merger of Bank Republic with TBC Bank, the Group has reassessed its definition of segments as disclosed in this note.
Comparative information as of 31 December 2016 has been updated respectively.
Comparative information as of 31 December 2015 has not been updated due to impracticability.
The operating segments according to the new definition are now determined as follows: Corporate all business customers with an annual revenue of GEL 8.0 million or more or who have been granted a loan in an amount equivalent to USD 1.5 million or more.
Some other business customers may also be assigned to the Corporate segment on a discretionary basis: Micro, small and medium enterprises all business customers who are not included in Corporate segment.
Some other customers may also be assigned to the MSME segment on a discretionary basis: Retail all individual customers not included in the other categories: Corporate Centre and Other Operations comprises of the Treasury, other support and back office functions, and non-banking subsidiaries of the Group.
For the profit and loss items for the year ended 31 December 2015 the recalculation was impracticable.
The operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2015 are as follows: Corporate business customers with an annual revenue of GEL 8.0 million or more or who have been granted a loan in an amount equivalent to USD 1.5 million or more.
Some other significant legal entity customers may also be assigned to the corporate segment on a discretionary basis: for example clients that the Group assessed as having strong growth potential: Micro, small and medium enterprises all business customers who are not included in Corporate segment.
Some other customers may also be assigned to the MSME segment on a discretionary basis: Retail all individual customers of the Group as well as customers that have been granted gold-pawn loans: Corporate Centre and Other Operations comprises of the Treasury, other support and back office functions, and non-banking subsidiaries of the Group.
Statement of financial position amounts as at 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015 are comparable.
The Board of Directors assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of adjusted profit before income tax.
212 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 28 Segment Analysis continued The reportable segments are the same as the operating segments.
No revenue from transactions with a single external customer or counterparty amounted to 10% or more of the Groups total revenue in 2017, 2016 or 2015.
The vast majority of the entitys revenues are attributable to Georgia.
A geographic analysis of origination of the Groups assets and liabilities is given in Note 36.
A summary of the Groups reportable segments for the years ended 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015 is provided below: Corpo rate Micro, small centre and and medium other In thousands of GELCorpo rate Retail enterprises operations Total 31 December 2017 Interest income 203,082 535,851 184,008 110,998 1,033,939 interest expense 103,707 118,516 11,661 196,040 429,924 Inter-segment interest income expense 22,489 73,141 51,488 102,140 Net interest income 121,864 344,194 120,859 17,098 604,015 Fee and commission income 30,037 140,582 20,335 2,990 193,944 Fee and commission expense 6,942 51,199 8,949 893 67,983 Net Fee and commission income 23,095 89,383 11,386 2,097 125,961 Insurance Profit 6,773 6,773 Net gains from trading in foreign currencies 38,885 22,597 26,885 1,268 87,099 Net losses from foreign exchange translation 4,374 4,374 Net losses from derivative financial instruments 36 36 Net gains from disposal of available for sale investment securities 93 93 Other operating income 13,465 12,670 1,726 3,936 31,797 Share of profit of associates 909 909 Other operating non-interest income 52,350 35,267 28,611 14,781 131,009 Provision for loan impairment 27,031 106,579 14,275 93,823 Provision for performance guarantees and credit related commitments 183 261 467 542 153 Provision for impairment of investments in finance lease 492 492 Provision for impairment of other financial assets 7,666 17 64 4,692 12,439 Profit before administrative and other expenses and income taxes 216,857 361,987 146,984 28,250 754,078 Staff costs 25,989 128,331 31,225 17,555 203,100 Depreciation and amortisation 1,438 29,813 4,972 1,042 37,265 Provision for liabilities and charges 2,495 2,495 Administrative and other operating expenses 7,457 81,356 15,118 17,599 121,530 Operating expenses 34,884 239,500 51,315 33,701 359,400 Profit loss before tax 181,973 122,487 95,669 5,451 394,678 Income tax expense 27,738 15,527 13,820 22,335 34,750 Profit for the year 154,235 106,960 81,849 16,884 359,928 Total gross loans and advances to customers reported 2,475,392 4,233,153 1,844,672 8,553,217 Total customer accounts reported 2,410,862 4,378,265 1,027,690 7,816,817 Total credit related commitments and performance guarantees 1,160,517 229,178 199,662 1,589,357 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 213 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 28 Segment Analysis continued Corpo rate Micro, small centre and and medium other In thousands of GELCorpo rate Retail enterprises operations Total 31 December 2016 Interest income 160,998 386,193 141,533 77,702 766,426 interest expense 45,206 101,520 8,114 121,133 275,973 Inter-segment interest income expense 22,186 34,056 36,752 92,994 Net interest income 93,606 250,617 96,667 49,563 490,453 Fee and commission income 21,884 100,637 16,331 3,948 142,800 Fee and commission expense 3,977 42,905 4,689 961 52,532 Net Fee and commission income 17,907 57,732 11,642 2,987 90,268 Insurance Profit 256 256 Net gains from trading in foreign currencies 23,945 17,817 26,271 2,236 70,269 Net losses from foreign exchange translation 2,507 2,507 Net losses from derivative financial instruments 206 206 Net gains from disposal of available for sale investment securities 9,293 9,293 Other operating income 9,837 5,772 1,076 6,551 23,236 Other operating non-interest income 33,782 23,589 27,347 15,623 100,341 Provision for loan impairment 48,948 73,010 25,140 49,202 Provision for performance guarantees and credit related commitments 388 902 519 771 Provision for impairment of investments in finance lease 558 558 Provision for impairment of other financial assets 863 207 38 1,745 2,853 Impairment of investment securities available for sale 11 11 Profit before administrative and other expenses and income taxes 192,992 257,819 110,997 65,859 627,667 Staff costs 23,068 100,888 28,188 20,077 172,221 Depreciation and amortisation 1,062 21,560 3,507 1,953 28,082 Provision for liabilities and charges 2,210 2,210 Administrative and other operating expenses 5,944 59,365 12,793 31,373 109,475 Operating expenses 30,074 181,813 44,488 55,613 311,988 Profit before tax 162,918 76,006 66,509 10,246 315,679 Income tax expense 24,513 7,407 10,325 24,824 17,421 Profit for the year 138,405 68,599 56,184 35,070 298,258 Total gross loans and advances to customers reported 2,062,229 3,680,576 1,615,920 7,358,725 Total customer accounts reported 1,875,576 3,747,775 831,598 6,454,949 Total credit related commitments and performance guarantees 802,971 188,574 155,275 1,146,820 214 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 28 Segment Analysis continued Corpo rate Micro, small centre and and medium other In thousands of GELCorpo rate Retail enterprises operations Total 31 December 2015 Interest income 135,615 271,083 175,629 66,732 649,059 interest expense 31,189 94,656 11,644 99,396 236,885 Inter-segment interest income expense 34,855 12,828 29,243 51,270 Net interest income 69,571 189,255 134,742 18,606 412,174 Fee and commission income 18,397 72,242 18,619 4,579 113,837 Fee and commission expense 3,864 31,698 5,159 825 41,546 Net Fee and commission income 14,533 40,544 13,460 3,754 72,291 Net gains from trading in foreign currencies 23,647 15,038 23,275 2,682 64,642 Net gains from foreign exchange translation 2,579 2,579 Net losses from derivative financial instruments 575 575 Other operating income 13,808 2,299 1,184 8,592 25,883 Other operating noninterest income 37,455 17,337 24,459 13,278 92,529 Provision for loan impairment 15,396 29,004 28,391 72,791 Provision for performance guarantees and credit related commitments 4,581 4,113 649 1,117 Provision for impairment of investments in finance lease 967 967 Provision for impairment of other financial assets 561 735 705 1,350 3,351 Profit before administrative and other expenses and income taxes 110,183 213,284 144,214 33,321 501,002 Staff costs 16,947 69,497 46,909 9,424 142,777 Depreciation and amortisation 1,092 15,295 8,574 1,325 26,286 Provision for liabilities and charges 1,102 1,102 Administrative and other operating expenses 4,879 46,438 22,243 9,404 82,964 Operating expenses 22,918 131,230 77,726 21,255 253,129 Profit before tax 87,265 82,054 66,488 12,066 247,873 Income tax expense 13,384 11,119 10,297 5,624 29,176 Profit for the year 73,881 70,935 56,191 17,690 218,697 Total gross loans and advances to customers reported 1,500,104 2,075,374 1,063,551 4,639,029 Total customer accounts reported 1,001,341 2,536,482 640,108 4,177,931 Total credit related commitments and performance guarantees 446,380 132,670 79,925 658,975 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 215 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 28 Segment Analysis continued Reportable segments assets were reconciled to total assets as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Total segment assets gross loans and advances to customers 8,553,217 7,358,725 4,639,029 Provision for loan impairment 227,864 225,023 194,143 Cash and cash equivalents 1,431,477 945,180 720,347 Mandatory cash balances with National Bank of Georgia 1,033,818 990,642 471,490 Due from other banks 39,643 24,725 11,042 Investment securities available for sale 657,938 430,703 307,310 Bonds carried at amortised cost 449,538 372,956 372,092 Current income tax prepayment 19,084 7,430 9,856 Deferred income tax asset 2,855 3,511 1,546 Other financial assets 146,144 94,627 64,317 Investments in finance leases 143,836 95,031 75,760 Other assets 156,651 171,263 103,912 Premises and equipment 366,913 314,032 247,767 Intangible assets 83,492 60,957 44,344 Investment properties 79,232 95,615 57,600 Goodwill 28,658 28,658 2,726 Investments in Subsidiaries and Associates 1,278 Total assets per statement of financial position 12,965,910 10,769,032 6,934,995 Reportable segments liabilities are reconciled to total liabilities as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Total segment liabilities customer accounts 7,816,817 6,454,949 4,177,931 Due to Credit institutions 2,620,714 2,197,577 1,113,574 Debt securities in issue 20,695 23,508 21,714 Current income tax liability 447 2,577 912 Deferred income tax liability 602 5,646 29,244 Provisions for liabilities and charges 13,200 16,026 9,461 Other financial liabilities 91,753 50,998 39,435 Other liabilities 84,440 66,739 40,627 Subordinated debt 426,788 368,381 283,648 Total liabilities per statement of financial position 11,075,456 9,186,401 5,716,546 216 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 29 Interest Income and Expense In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Interest income Loans and advances to customers 919,796 688,724 582,327 Bonds carried at amortised cost 32,328 30,714 22,950 Investment securities available for sale Note 10 43,735 25,707 20,927 Investments in leases 23,273 16,566 15,217 Due from other banks 14,807 4,550 7,638 Other 165 Total interest income 1,033,939 766,426 649,059 Interest expense Customer accounts 233,884 154,840 137,489 Due to credit institutions 157,122 85,030 70,834 Subordinated debt 36,975 34,325 26,363 Debt securities in issue 1,943 1,778 2,105 Other 94 Total interest expense 429,924 275,973 236,885 Net interest income 604,015 490,453 412,174 In the year ended 31 December 2017 the interest accrued on impaired loans amounted to GEL 16,332 thousand 2016: 23,825 thousand: 2015: 25,756 thousand.
30 Fee and Commission Income and Expense In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Fee and commission income Fee and commission income in respect of financial instruments not at fair value through profit or loss: Card operations 82,525 61,115 49,424 Settlement transactions 59,739 43,434 31,218 Cash transactions 17,424 13,013 10,930 Guarantees issued 15,121 11,699 8,949 Issuance of letters of credit 5,735 6,215 5,859 Foreign exchange operations 1,339 1,277 1,410 Other 12,061 6,047 6,047 Total fee and commission income 193,944 142,800 113,837 Fee and commission expense Fee and commission expense in respect of financial instruments not at fair value through profit or loss: Card operations 46,360 34,906 27,169 Settlement transactions 7,421 5,795 3,904 Guarantees received 2,873 2,420 3,165 Cash transactions 4,393 2,633 2,707 Self-service and POS terminal transactions 6,436 4,692 3,556 Other 500 2,086 1,045 Total fee and commission expense 67,983 52,532 41,546 Net fee and commission income 125,961 90,268 72,291 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 217 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 31 Other Operating Income In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Revenues from operational leasing 6,544 5,772 8,539 Gain from sale of investment properties 4,353 2,623 4,896 Gain from sale of receivables 4,090 58 - Reimbursement of taxes 2,486 349 - Gain from sale of inventories of repossessed collateral 2,383 2,382 1,836 Gain from marketing promotional services 2,077 - - Revenues from non-credit related fines 1,408 658 286 Revenues from sale of cash-in terminals 1,093 1,100 777 Gain on disposal of premises and equipment 1,017 208 118 Recovery from repayment of purchased impaired loans - 4,995 - Administrative fee income from international financial institutions - 644 708 Gain on sale of financial asset - - 4,692 Other 6,346 4,447 4,031 Total other operating income 31,797 23,236 25,883 Revenue from operational leasing is wholly attributable to investment properties.
The carrying value of the inventories of repossessed collateral disposed in the year ended 31 December 2017 was GEL 24,284 thousand 2016: GEL 26,972 thousand: 2015: GEL 9,777 thousand.
32 Staff Costs In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Salaries and bonuses 182,784 146,840 124,676 Share based compensation 15,662 22,053 14,526 Other compensation cost 4,654 3,328 3,575 Salaries and other employee benefits 203,100 172,221 142,777 In 2017 the monthly average number of persons employed by the Group was 6,993 people 2016: 5,537: 2015: 5,241.
Breakdown of monthly average number of employees by categories is as follows: 2017 2016 2015 Headquarters 2,788 2,243 2,084 Branches 3,773 2,902 2,827 Other administrative staff 432 392 330 Under monthly average number of employees in headquarters and branches employees in JSC TBC Bank, JSC Bank Republic, JSC TBC Insurance, Bank Constanta JSC and LLC TBC Kredits are considered.
Employees from other subsidiaries are considered under other administrative staff.
Monthly average number of employees in TBC PLC was 10 individuals 2016: 9.
218 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 33 Administrative and Other Operating Expenses In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Rent 23,132 18,294 16,468 Advertising and marketing services 18,430 13,796 11,451 Professional services 14,332 29,926 8,418 Intangible asset enhancement 10,304 7,446 6,062 Utility services 6,067 5,108 4,501 Taxes other than on income 5,670 4,699 4,598 Premises and equipment maintenance 5,413 3,889 2,959 Stationery and other office expenses 4,936 3,448 3,471 Communications and supply 4,063 4,183 3,433 Insurance 2,461 2,687 2,301 Business trip expenses 2,021 1,880 1,589 Security services 1,965 1,883 1,622 Impairment of intangible assets 1,916 2,043 4,982 Transportation and vehicle maintenance 1,637 1,386 1,328 Personnel training and recruitment 1,444 1,272 1,230 Loss on disposal of inventories 1,239 1,690 86 Charity 1,045 884 928 Loss on disposal of premises and equipment 492 423 34 Reversal of previously written-down current assets to fair value less costs to sell 538 4,424 178 Other 15,501 8,962 7,678 Total administrative and other operating expenses 121,530 109,475 82,964 Included in professional services, in the year ended 31 December 2016, are transaction costs related to the acquisition of Bank Republic, comprising GEL 8,000 thousands.
Auditors remuneration is included within professional services expenses above and comprises: Other In thousands of GEL Audit Audit Related Services Total 2017 Audit of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries annual financial statements 1,700 1,700 Review of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries interim financial statements 251 251 Other assurance services 231 231 Total auditors remuneration 1,700 251 231 2,182 2016 Audit of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries annual financial statements 1,588 1,588 Review of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries interim financial statements 360 360 Other assurance services 5 5,432 5,437 Total auditors remuneration 1,588 365 5,432 7,385 2015 Audit of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries annual financial statements 1,104 1,104 Review of TBC Bank Group and subsidiaries interim financial statements 163 163 Other assurance services 102 231 333 Total auditors remuneration 1,104 265 231 1,600 Included in Other assurance services as of 31 December 2016, GEL 3,797 thousands is attributable to reporting accountant fees related to listing of TBCG shared on LSE.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 219 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 34 Income Taxes Income tax expenses comprises of the following: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Current tax charge 39,313 36,601 29,697 Deferred tax credit charge 4,563 19,180 521 Income tax expense for the year 34,750 17,421 29,176 The income tax rate applicable to the majority of the Groups income was 15% 2016: 15%: 2015: 15%.
The income tax rate applicable to the majority of subsidiaries income ranged from 15% to 20% 2016: 15%20%: 2015: 15% 20%.
Reconciliation between the expected and the actual taxation charge is provided below.
In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Profit before tax 394,678 315,679 247,873 Theoretical tax charge at statutory rate 2017:15%-20%: 2016:15%-20%: 2015:15%-20% 59,119 46,703 37,181 Tax effect of items which are not deductible or assessable for taxation purposes: Income which is exempt from taxation 12,958 9,638 7,281 Non-deductible expenses and other differences 117 3,706 724 Effect of change in tax legislation 11,794 24,204 Other differences 500 854 Income tax expense for the year 34,750 17,421 29,176 Differences between IFRS as adopted by the EU and statutory taxation regulations in Georgia and Azerbaijan give rise to temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax bases.
The tax effect of the movements in these temporary differences is detailed below and is recorded at the rate of 15% 2016: 15%: 2015: 15% for Georgia and 20% for Azerbaijan and United Kingdom 2016: 20%: 2015: 20%.
On 13 May 2016 the Government of Georgia enacted the changes in the Tax Code of Georgia effective from 1 January 2019, for commercial banks, credit unions, insurance organisations, microfinance organisations and pawnshops and from 1 January 2017 for other entities.
The new code impacts the recognition and measurement principles of the Groups income tax and it also affects the Groups deferred income tax assets liabilities.
Companies do not have to pay income tax on their profit before tax earned since 1 January 2017 or 1 January 2019 for commercial banks, credit unions, insurance organisations, microfinance organisations and pawnshops until that profit is distributed in a form of dividend or other forms of profit distributions.
Once dividend is paid, 15% income tax is payable at the moment of the dividend payment, regardless of whether in monetary or non-monetary form, to the foreign non-resident legal entities and foreign and domestic individuals.
The dividends paid out to the resident legal entities are tax exempted.
Apart from dividends distribution, the tax is still payable on expenses or other payments incurred not related to economic activities, free delivery of goods services and or transfer of funds and representation costs that exceed the maximum amount determined by the Income Tax Code of Georgia, in the same month they are incurred.
As of 31 December 2017, deferred tax assets liabilities are remeasured to the amounts that are estimated to be utilised in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
220 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 34 Income Taxes continued Charged directly to other Charged credited comprehensive 31 December In thousands of GEL 1 January 2017 to profit or loss income 2017 Tax effect of deductible taxable temporary differences and tax loss carry forward Premises and equipment 5,323 648 377 4,298 Loan impairment provision 92 2,400 2,401 Fair valuation of investment securities available for sale 165 483 648 Other financial assets 2,368 104 2,266 Other assets 39 10 29 Investment in leases Investment property 982 640 342 Due to credit institutions 1,295 479 816 Subordinated debt 85 62 23 Other financial liabilities 197 269 72 Other liabilities 2,226 575 1,651 Share based payment 676 810 1,486 Tax loss carry forwards 29 29 Net deferred tax asset liability 2,135 4,563 271 2,253 Recognised deferred tax asset 3,511 753 2,855 Recognised deferred tax liability 5,646 5,316 271 602 Net deferred tax asset liability 2,135 4,563 271 2,253 Credited directly Changes due to other to the Charged credited comprehensive business 31 December In thousands of GEL 1 January 2016 to profit or loss income combination 2016 Tax effect of deductible taxable temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards Premises and equipment 25,802 11,112 11,011 1,644 5,323 Loan impairment provision 9,167 11,729 2,574 92 Fair valuation of investment securities available for sale 1,595 461 1,565 267 165 Other financial assets 5,952 3,830 246 2,368 Other assets 6,407 5,734 634 39 Investment in leases 556 556 Investment property 4,247 4,275 1,010 982 Due to credit institutions 475 820 1,295 Subordinated debt 327 242 85 Other financial liabilities 60 137 197 Other liabilities 1,311 1,146 232 2,226 Share based payment 741 65 676 Tax loss carry forwards 29 29 Net deferred tax asset liability 27,698 19,180 12,576 6,115 2,135 Recognised deferred tax asset 1,546 1,719 246 3,511 Recognised deferred tax liability 29,244 17,461 12,576 6,361 5,646 Net deferred tax asset liability 27,698 19,180 12,576 6,115 2,135 As of 31 December 2017, deferred tax assets liabilities are remeasured to the amounts that are estimated to be utilised in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 221 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 34 Income Taxes continued Charged directly to other 1 January Charged credited comprehensive 31 December In thousands of GEL 2015 to profit or loss income 2015 Tax effect of deductible taxable temporary differences and tax loss carry forward Premises and equipment 20,040 1,393 4,369 25,802 Loan impairment provision 4,718 3,858 591 9,167 Fair valuation of investment securities available for sale 1,224 108 479 1,595 Other financial assets 4,483 1,469 5,952 Other assets 4,164 2,211 32 6,407 Investment in leases 29 585 556 Investment property 6,436 2,189 4,247 Due to credit institutions 292 183 475 Subordinated debt 259 68 327 Other Financial liabilities 1,817 1,757 60 Other Liabilities 380 1,697 6 1,311 Share based payment 52 689 741 Net deferred tax asset liability 22,804 519 5,413 27,698 Recognised deferred tax asset 383 1,163 1,546 Recognised deferred tax liability 23,187 644 5,413 29,244 Net deferred tax asset liability 22,804 519 5,413 27,698 In the context of the Groups current structure and Georgian tax legislation, tax losses and current tax assets of different group companies may not be offset against current tax liabilities and taxable profits of other group companies and, accordingly, taxes may accrue even where there is a consolidated tax loss.
Therefore, deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when they relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
35 Net Debt Reconciliation The table below sets out an analysis of our debt and the movements in our debt for each of the periods presented.
The debt items are those that are reported as financing in the statement of cash flows.
Liabilities from financing activities Other Debt borrowed Securities in Subordinated In thousands of GEL funds Issue debt Total Net debt at 1 January 2017 1,880,670 23,508 368,381 2,272,559 Cash flows 519,289 3,251 22,837 538,875 Foreign exchange adjustments 13,266 1,505 765 15,536 Other non-cash movements 147,803 1,943 36,335 186,081 Net debt at 31 December 2017 2,534,496 20,695 426,788 2,981,979 Due to the amendments being issued one year before the effective date, the Group need not provide comparative information as it applied the amendment for the first time.
222 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 36 Financial and Other Risk Management TBC Bank Groups strong risk governance reflects the importance placed by the Board and the Groups Risks, Ethics and Compliance Committee on shaping the risk strategy and managing credit, financial and non-financial risks.
All components necessary for comprehensive risk governance are embedded into risk organisation structure: enterprise risk management: credit, financial and non-financial risks management: risk reporting & supporting IT infrastructure: cross-risk analytical tools and techniques such as capital adequacy management and stresstesting.
Comprehensive, transparent and prudent risk governance facilitates understanding and trust from multiple stakeholders, ensures sustainability and resiliency of the business model and positioning of risk management as Groups competitive advantage and strategic enabler.
The TBC Bank Groups governance structure ensures adequate oversight and accountabilities as well as clear segregation of duties.
The Risks, Ethics and Compliance Committee is responsible for taking all the day-to-day decisions relating to the Group apart from those that are reserved for the Board.
Namely, the committee carries out following duties: 1 Review and assessment of the Groups risk management strategy, risk appetite and tolerance, risk management system and risk policies: 2 Review and monitoring of the processes for compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes of practice: 3 monitoring of the remediation of internal control deficiencies identified by internal and external auditors around compliance, ethics and risk management functions: 4 Annual self-assessment of the committees performance and reporting of the results to the Board: 5 Review of the key risk management framework and other policy documents and make recommendations to the Board for their approval.
On the Bank level, risk management is the duty of the Supervisory Board, which has the overall responsibility to set the tone at the top and monitor compliance with established objectives.
At the same time, the Management Board governs and directs Groups daily activities.
Both the Supervisory Board and the Management Board have established dedicated risk committees.
The Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee of Supervisory Board approves Banks Risk Appetite, supervises risk profile and risk governance practice within the Bank while the Audit Committee is responsible for implementation of key accounting policies and facilitation of activities of internal and external auditors.
The Management Board Risk Committee is established to guide group-wide risk management activities and monitor major risk trends to make sure risk profile complies with the established Risk Appetite of the Group.
The Operational Risk Committee makes decisions related to operational risk governance while the Asset-Liability Management Committee ALCO is responsible for implementation of ALM policies.
The Board, the Supervisory Board and Senior Management govern risk objectives through Risk Appetite Statement RAS which sets desired risk profile and respective risk limits for different economic environments.
Risk Appetite RA establishes monitoring and reporting responsibilities as well as escalation paths for different trigger events and limit breaches which as well prompt risk teams to establish and implement agreed mitigation actions.
In order to effectively implement Risk Appetite in the Groups day-to-day operations, the RA metrics are cascaded into more granular business unit level limits.
That way risk allocation is established across different segments and activities.
The Board level oversight coupled with the permanent involvement of the Senior Management in TBC Group risk management ensures the clarity regarding risk objectives, intense monitoring of risk profile against risk appetite, prompt escalation of risk-related concerns and establishment of remediation actions.
The daily management of individual risks is based on the principle of the three lines of defense.
While business lines are primary risk owners, risk teams assume the function of the second line defense.
This role is performed through sanctioning transactions as well as tools and techniques for risk identification, analysis, measurement, monitoring and reporting.
The committees are established at operational levels in charge of making transaction-level decisions that comprise of components of clear and sophisticated delegations of the authority framework based on four-eye principle.
All new products projects go through the risk teams to assure risks are analysed comprehensively.
Such control arrangements guarantee that the Bank takes informed risk-taking decisions that are adequately priced, avoiding taking risks that are beyond the Groups established threshold.
Within the Risk Organisation the below teams manage the credit, liquidity, market, operational and other non-financial risks: Enterprise Risk Management ERM : Credit Risk Management: Underwriting Credit sanctioning : Restructuring and Collections: Financial Risk Management: Operational Risk Management.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 223 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued The strong and independent structure enables fulfillment of all the required risk management functions within the second line of defense by highly skilled professionals with a balanced mix of credentials in banking and real sectors both on the local and international markets.
In addition to the above-mentioned risk teams, the Compliance Department reporting directly to CEO is specifically in charge of AML and compliance risk management.
As the third line of defense, the Internal Audit Department provides an independent and objective assurance and recommendations to the Group that facilitates further improvement of operations and risk management.
For the management of each significant risk, the Bank puts in place specific policies and procedures, governance tools and techniques, methodologies for risk identification, assessment and quantification.
Sound risk reporting systems and IT infrastructure are important tools for efficient risk management of TBC Bank.
Thus, significant emphasis and investments are made by the Bank to constantly drive the development of required solutions.
Comprehensive reporting framework is in place for the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Board that enables intense oversight over risk developments and taking early remedial actions upon necessity.
Beyond the described risk governance components, the compensation system features one of the most significant tools for introducing incentives for staff, aligned with the Banks long-term interests to generate sustainable risk-adjusted returns.
The risk Key Performance Indicators KPIs are incorporated into both the business line and the risk staff remunerations.
The performance management framework differentiates risk staff incentives to safeguard the independence from business areas that they supervise and at the same time enable attraction and maintenance of qualified professionals.
For that purpose, the Bank overweighs risk KPIs for risk and control staff and caps the share of variable remuneration.
Credit risk: The Group is exposed to credit risk, which is the risk that a customer or counterparty will be unable to meet its obligation to settle outstanding amounts.
The Groups exposure to credit risk arises as a result of its lending operations and other transactions with counterparties giving rise to financial assets.
Maximum exposure to credit risk of on-balance sheet items equals their carrying values.
For maximum exposure on off-balance sheet commitments refer to Note 38. Credit risks include: risks arising from transactions with individual counterparties, concentration risk, currency-induced credit risks and residual risks.
Risks arising from transactions with individual counterparties are the loss risk related to default or non-fulfillment of contracts due to deterioration in the counterpartys credit quality.
Concentration risk is the risk related to the quality deterioration due to large exposures provided to single borrowers or a group of connected.
borrowers, or loan concentration in certain economic industries.
Currency-induced credit risks relate to risks arising from foreign currency-denominated loans in the Groups portfolio.
Residual risks result from applying credit risk-mitigation techniques, which could not satisfy expectation in relation to received collateral.
Comprehensive risk management methods and processes are established as part of the Groups risk management framework to manage credit risk effectively.
The main principles for the Groups credit risk management are: establish a prudent credit risk environment: operate under a sound credit-granting process: and maintain efficient processes for credit risk identification, measurement, control and monitoring.
Respective policies and procedures establish a framework for lending decisions reflecting the Groups tolerance for credit risk.
This framework includes detailed and formalised credit evaluation and collateral appraisal processes, administration and documentation, credit approval authorities at various levels, counterparty and industry concentration limits, and clearly defined roles and responsibilities of entities and staff involved in the origination, monitoring and management of credit.
Credit Approval: The Group strives to ensure a sound credit-granting process by establishing well-defined credit granting criteria and building up an efficient process for the comprehensive assessment of a borrowers risk profile.
The concept of three lines of defense is embedded in the credit risk assessment framework, with a clear segregation of duties among the parties involved in the credit assessment process.
The credit assessment process differs across segments, being further differentiated across various product types reflecting the different natures of these asset classes.
Corporate, SME and larger retail and micro loans are assessed on an individual basis with thorough analysis of the borrowers creditworthiness and structure of the loan: whereas smaller retail and micro loans are mostly assessed in an automated way applying respective scoring models for the loan approval.
Lending guidelines for business borrowers have been tailored to individual economic sectors, outlining key lending criteria and target ratios within each industry.
The Loan Approval Committees are responsible to review the credit applications and approve the credit products.
Different Loan Approval Committees with clearly defined delegation authority are in place for the approval of credit exposures to Corporate, SME, Retail and Micro customers except those products which are assessed applying scorecards.
The composition of a Loan Approval Committee depends on aggregated liabilities of the borrower and the borrowers risk profile.
Credit risk managers as members of respective Loan Approval Committees ensure that the borrower and the proposed credit exposure risks are thoroughly analysed.
A loan to the Banks top 20 borrowers or exceeding 5% of the Banks regulatory capital requires the review and the approval of the Supervisory Boards Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee.
This committee also approves transactions with related parties resulting in exposures to individuals and legal entities exceeding GEL 150 and 200 thousand, respectively.
224 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued Credit Risk Monitoring: The Groups risk management policies and processes are designed to identify and analyse risk in a timely manner, and monitor adherence to predefined limits by means of reliable and timely data.
The Group dedicates considerable resources to gain a clear and accurate understanding of the credit risk faced across various business segments.
The Group uses a robust monitoring system to react timely to macro and micro developments, identify weaknesses in the credit portfolio and outline solutions to make informed risk management decisions.
Monitoring processes are tailored to the specifics of individual segments, as well encompassing individual credit exposures, overall portfolio performance and external trends that may impact the portfolios risk profile.
Early warning signals serve as an important early alert system for the detection of credit deteriorations, leading to mitigating actions.
Reports relating to the credit quality of the credit portfolio are presented to the Boards Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committees on a quarterly basis.
By comparing current data with historical figures and analysing forecasts, the management believes that it is capable of identifying risks and responding to them by amending its policies in a timely manner.
Credit Risk Mitigation: Credit decisions are based primarily on the borrowers repayment capacity and creditworthiness: in addition, the Group uses credit risk mitigation tools such as collateral and guarantees to reduce the credit risk.
The reliance that can be placed on these mitigation factors is carefully assessed for legal certainty and enforceability, market valuation of collateral and counterparty risk of the guarantor.
A centralised unit for collateral management governs the Groups view and strategy in relation to collateral management and ensures that collateral serves as an adequate mitigating factor for credit risk management purposes.
The collateral management framework consists of a sound independent appraisal process, haircut system throughout the underwriting process, monitoring and revaluations.
Credit Risk Restructuring and Collection: A comprehensive portfolio supervision system is in place to identify weakened or problem credit exposures in a timely manner and to take prompt remedial actions.
Dedicated restructuring units manage weakened borrowers across all business segments.
The primary goal of the restructuring units is to rehabilitate the borrower and return to the performing category.
The sophistication and complexity of the rehabilitation process differs based on the type and size of exposure.
A centralised monitoring team monitors retail borrowers in delinquency, which coupled with branches efforts, are aimed at maximising collection.
The specialised software is applied for early collection processes management.
Specific strategies are tailored to different sub-groups of customers, reflecting respective risk levels, so that greater effort is dedicated to customers with a higher risk profile.
Dedicated recovery units manage loans with higher risk profile.
Corporate and SME borrowers are transferred to a recovery unit in case of a strong probability that a material portion of the principal amount will not be paid and the main stream of recovery is no longer the borrowers cash flow.
Retail and micro loans are generally transferred to the recovery unit or external collection agencies in the case of unsecured loans at 90 days overdue, although they may be transferred earlier if it is evident that the borrower is unable to repay the loan.
Geographical risk concentrations: Assets, liabilities, credit related commitments and performance guarantees have generally been attributed to geographic regions based on the country in which the counterparty is located.
Balances legally outstanding to from off-shore companies which are closely related to Georgian counterparties are allocated to the caption Georgia.
Cash on hand and premises and equipment have been allocated based on the country in which they are physically held.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 225 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued The geographical concentration of the Groups assets and liabilities as of 31December 2017 is set out below: In thousands of GEL Georgia OECD NonOECD Total Assets Cash and cash equivalents 820,647 608,728 2,102 1,431,477 Due from other banks 27,183 8,733 3,727 39,643 Mandatory cash balances with National Bank of Georgia 1,033,818 1,033,818 Loans and advances to customers 7,960,107 67,805 297,441 8,325,353 Investment securities available for sale 657,068 870 657,938 Bonds carried at amortised cost 449,538 449,538 Investments in leases 143,836 143,836 Other financial assets 145,798 141 205 146,144 Total financial assets 11,237,995 685,407 304,345 12,227,747 Non-financial assets 733,417 55 4,691 738,163 Total assets 11,971,412 685,462 309,036 12,965,910 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 1,069,211 1,535,644 15,859 2,620,714 Customer accounts 6,499,134 694,821 622,862 7,816,817 Debt securities in issue 7,821 12,874 20,695 Other financial liabilities 90,649 474 630 91,753 Subordinated debt 62,508 232,263 132,017 426,788 Total financial liabilities 7,729,323 2,463,202 784,242 10,976,767 Non-financial liabilities 96,759 1,084 846 98,689 Total liabilities 7,826,082 2,464,286 785,088 11,075,456 Net balance sheet position 4,145,330 1,778,824 476,052 1,890,454 Performance guarantees 387,890 151,502 72,905 612,297 Credit related commitments 968,019 2,996 6,045 977,060 226 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued The geographical concentration of the Groups assets and liabilities as of 31December 2016 is set out below: In thousands of GEL Georgia OECD NonOECD Total Assets Cash and cash equivalents 549,279 389,223 6,678 945,180 Due from other banks 5,874 18,851 24,725 Mandatory cash balances with National Bank of Georgia 990,642 990,642 Loans and advances to customers 6,923,037 88,616 122,049 7,133,702 Investment securities available for sale 429,985 718 430,703 Bonds carried at amortised cost 372,956 372,956 Investments in leases 95,031 95,031 Other financial assets 94,398 229 94,627 Total financial assets 9,461,202 496,919 129,445 10,087,566 Non-financial assets 676,665 29 4,772 681,466 Total assets 10,137,867 496,948 134,217 10,769,032 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 718,699 1,408,693 70,185 2,197,577 Customer accounts 5,421,782 530,370 502,797 6,454,949 Debt securities in issue 13,261 10,247 23,508 Other financial liabilities 49,092 1,286 620 50,998 Subordinated debt 233,657 134,724 368,381 Total financial liabilities 6,202,834 2,174,006 718,573 9,095,413 Non-financial liabilities 89,298 1,098 592 90,988 Total liabilities 6,292,132 2,175,104 719,165 9,186,401 Net balance sheet position 3,845,735 1,678,156 584,948 1,582,631 Performance guarantees 274,614 56,406 95,588 426,608 Credit related commitments 706,646 10,175 3,391 720,212 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 227 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued The geographical concentration of the Groups assets and liabilities as of 31December 2015 is set out below: In thousands of GEL Georgia OECD Non-OECD Total Assets Cash and cash equivalents 509,000 199,383 11,964 720,347 Due from other banks 2,976 8,066 11,042 Mandatory cash balances with National Bank of Georgia 471,490 471,490 Loans and advances to customers 4,192,155 123,643 129,088 4,444,886 Investment securities available for sale 297,975 9,335 307,310 Bonds carried at amortised cost 372,092 372,092 Investments in leases 75,760 75,760 Other financial assets 64,302 15 64,317 Total financial assets 5,985,750 340,442 141,052 6,467,244 Non-financial assets 465,094 39 2,618 467,751 Total assets 6,450,844 340,481 143,670 6,934,995 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 408,475 637,367 67,732 1,113,574 Customer accounts 3,378,566 462,400 336,965 4,177,931 Debt securities in issue 4,798 16,916 21,714 Other financial liabilities 36,772 2,591 72 39,435 Subordinated debt 283,648 283,648 Total financial liabilities 3,828,611 1,386,006 421,685 5,636,302 Non-financial liabilities 78,624 834 786 80,244 Total liabilities 3,907,235 1,386,840 422,471 5,716,546 Net balance sheet position 2,543,609 1,046,359 278,801 1,218,449 Performance guarantees 234,695 1,786 6,702 243,183 Credit related commitments 401,590 13,199 1,003 415,792 Market risk: The Bank follows the Basel Committees definition of market risk as the risk of losses in onand off-balance sheet positions arising from movements in market prices.
This risk is principally made up of a risks pertaining to interest rate instruments and equities in the trading book and b foreign exchange rate risk or currency risk and commodities risk throughout the Bank.
The Banks strategy is not to be involved in trading book activity or investments in commodities.
Accordingly, the Banks exposure to market risk is primarily limited to foreign exchange rate risk in the structural book.
Currency risk: Foreign exchange rate risk arises from the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates, which can affect the value of a financial instrument.
This risk stems from the open currency positions created due to mismatches in foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The NBG requires the Bank to monitor both balance-sheet and total aggregate including off-balance sheet open currency positions and to maintain the latter within 20% of the Banks regulatory capital.
As of 31 December 2017, the Bank maintained an aggregate open currency position of 1.5% of regulatory capital 2016: 3.2%: 2015: 1.6%.
The Asset-Liability Management Committee ALCO has set limits on the level of exposure by currency as well as on aggregate exposure positions which are more conservative than those set by the NBG.
The Banks compliance with such limits is monitored daily by the heads of the Treasury and Financial Risk Management Departments.
228 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued Currency risk management framework is governed through the Market Risk Management Policy, market risk management procedure and relevant methodologies.
Under the ICAAP framework the Bank developed methodology for allocating capital charges for FX risk following Basel guidelines.
The table below summarises the Groups exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk at the balance sheet date.
While managing open currency position the Group considers all provisions to be denominated in the local currency.
Gross amount of currency swap deposits is included in Derivatives.
Therefore total financial assets and liabilities below are not traceable with either balance sheet or liquidity risk management tables, where net amount of gross currency swaps is presented: As of 31 December 2017 Monetary Monetary Net balance financial financial sheet In thousands of GEL assets liabilities Derivatives position Georgian Laris 4,814,429 3,767,858 164,521 1,211,092 US Dollars 6,475,155 6,299,024 153,449 22,682 Euros 816,565 805,153 9,315 2,097 Other 121,579 104,732 899 15,948 Total 12,227,728 10,976,767 858 1,251,819 As of 31 December 2016 As of 31 December 2015 Monetary Monetary Monetary Monetary financial Net balance financial financial Net balance financial liabilities Derivatives sheet position assets liabilities Derivatives sheet position In thousands of GEL assets Georgian Laris 3,484,840 2,478,715 9,394 1,015,519 2,442,850 1,646,864 3,430 799,416 US Dollars 5,821,734 5,848,266 8,905 35,437 3,507,494 3,428,146 71,933 7,415 Euros 690,728 697,568 13 6,853 466,450 499,702 32,715 537 Other 90,264 70,864 288 19,112 50,436 61,531 36,285 25,190 Total 10,087,566 9,095,413 188 992,341 6,467,230 5,636,243 497 831,484 To assess the currency risk the Bank performs a value-at-risk VAR sensitivity analysis on a quarterly basis.
The analysis calculates the effect on the Groups income determined by possible worst movement of currency rates against the Georgian Lari, with all other variables held constant.
To identify the maximum expected losses resulting from currency fluctuations, a 99% confidence level is defined based on the monthly variations in exchange rates over a 3-year look-back period.
During the years ended 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015, the sensitivity analysis did not reveal any significant potential effect on the Groups equity: As of As of As of 31 December 31 December 31 December In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Maximum loss VAR, 99% confidence level 2,206 1,184 449 Maximum loss VAR, 95% confidence level 1,462 868 285 Interest rate risk: Interest rate risk arises from potential changes in the market interest rates that can adversely affect the fair value or future cash flows of the financial instrument.
This risk can arise from maturity mismatches of assets and liabilities, as well as from the repricing characteristics of such assets and liabilities.
The Banks deposits and the most loans are at fixed interest rates, while a portion of the Banks borrowings is at a floating interest rate.
The Banks floating rate borrowings are, to a certain extent, hedged by the NBG paying a floating rate on the minimum reserves that the Bank holds with the NBG.
The Bank has also entered into interest rate swap agreements in order to mitigate interest rate risk.
Furthermore, many of the Banks loans to customers contain a clause allowing it to adjust the interest rate on the loan in case of adverse interest rate movements, thereby limiting the Banks exposure to interest rate risk.
The management also believes that the Banks interest rate margins provide a reasonable buffer to mitigate the effect of possible adverse interest rate movements.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 229 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued The table below summarises the Groups exposure to interest rate risks.
It illustrates the aggregated amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities at the amounts monitored by the management and categorised by the earlier of contractual interest repricing or maturity dates.
Currency and interest rate swaps are not netted when assessing the Groups exposure to interest rate risks.
Therefore, total financial assets and liabilities below are not traceable with either balance sheet or other financial risk management tables.
The tables consider both reserves placed with NBG and Interest bearing Nostro accounts.
Income on NBG reserves and Nostros are calculated as benchmark minus margin whereby for benchmark Federal funds rate and ECB rates are considered in case of USD and EUR respectively.
Therefore, they have impact on the TBCs Net interest income in case of both upward and downward shift of interest rates.
Other comprehensive income would have been GEL 6,131 thousand higher 2016: GEL 1,516 thousand: 2015: GEL 927 thousand, as a result of an increase in the fair value of fixed rate financial assets classified as available for sale and repurchase receivables.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher, with all other variables held constant, profit would have been GEL 7.4 million lower 2016: GEL 9.5 million: 2015: GEL 777 thousand, mainly as a result of higher interest expense on variable interest liabilities.
Other comprehensive income would have been GEL 5,861 thousand lower 2016: GEL 2,118 thousand: 2015: GEL 911 thousand, as a result of decrease in the fair value of fixed rate financial assets classified as available for sale.
With the assistance of Ernst & Young LLC the Bank has developed an advanced model to manage the interest rate risk on a standalone basis.
The interest rate risk analysis is performed monthly by the Financial Risk Management Department.
The Bank calculates the impact of changes in interest rates using both Net Interest Income and Economic Value sensitivity.
Net Interest Income sensitivity measures the impact of a change of interest rates along the various maturities on the yield curve on the net interest revenue for the nearest year.
Economic Value measures the impact of a change of interest rates along the various maturities on the yield curve on the present value of the Groups assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments.
When performing Net Interest Income and Economic Value sensitivity analysis, the Bank uses parallel shifts in interest rates as well as number of different scenarios.
Under the ICAAP framework, TBC Bank reserves capital in the amount of the adverse effect of possible parallel yield curve shift scenarios on net interest income over a one-year period for Basel II Pillar 2 capital calculation purposes.
In order to manage Interest Rate risk the Bank establishes appropriate limits.
The Bank monitors compliance with the limits and prepares forecasts.
ALCO decides on actions that are necessary for effective interest rate risk management and follows up on the implementation.
Periodic reporting is done to Management Board and the Boards Risk, Ethics and Compliance Committee.
Liquidity Risk: The liquidity risk is the risk that TBC Bank either does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet all of its obligations and commitments as they fall due, or can access those resources only at a high cost.
The risk is managed by the Financial Risk Management and Treasury Departments and is monitored by the ALCO.
The principal objectives of the TBC Banks liquidity risk management policy are to: i ensure the availability of funds in order to meet claims arising from total liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments, both actual and contingent, at an economic price: ii recognise any structural mismatch existing within TBC Banks statement of financial position and set monitoring ratios to manage funding in line with well-balanced growth: and iii monitor liquidity and funding on an ongoing basis to ensure that approved business targets are met without compromising the risk profile of the Bank.
The liquidity risk is categorised into two risk types: the funding liquidity risk and the market liquidity risk.
230 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued Funding liquidity risk is the risk that TBC will not be able to efficiently meet both expected and unexpected current and future cash flow and collateral needs without affecting either its daily operations or its financial condition.
To manage funding liquidity risk TBC Bank internally developed Liquidity Coverage ratio and a Net Stable Funding ratio models, both under Basel III guidelines.
In addition the Bank performs stress tests and what-if scenario analysis and minimum liquidity ratio defined by the NBG.
In 2017, for liquidity risk management purposes National Bank of Georgia introduced Liquidity Coverage Ratio NBG LCR, where in addition to Basel III guidelines conservative approaches were applied to Mandatory Reserves weighting and to the deposits withdrawal rates depending on the clients groups concentration.
From September 2017 the Bank also monitors compliance with NBG LCR limits.
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio is used to help manage short-term liquidity risks.
The Banks liquidity risk management framework is designed to comprehensively project cash flows arising from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items over certain time buckets and ensure that NBG LCR limits, are met on a daily basis.
TBC Bank also stress tests the results of liquidity through large shock scenarios provided by the NBG.
The Net Stable Funding ratio is used for long-term liquidity risk management to promote resilience over a longer time horizon by creating additional incentives for TBC Bank to rely on more stable sources of funding on a continuous basis.
The Bank also sets deposit concentration limits for large deposits and deposits of non-Georgian residents in its deposit portfolio.
Net Stable Funding ratio is calculated based on the IFRS consolidated financial statements.
In addition, for internal purposes TBC Bank calculates NSFR ratio on the basis of standalone financial statements prepared in accordance with NBGs accounting rules.
The management believes that a strong and diversified funding structure is one of TBC Banks differentiators.
The Bank relies on relatively stable deposits from Georgia as the main source of funding.
In order to maintain and further enhance the liability structure TBC Bank sets the targets for retail deposits in its strategy and sets the loan to deposit ratio limits.
The loan to deposit ratio defined as total value of net loans divided by total value of deposits stood at 106.5%, 110.5% and 106.4%, at 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015 respectively.
Market liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank cannot easily offset or eliminate a position at the then-current market price because of inadequate market depth or market disruption.
To manage it, TBC Bank follows Basel III guidelines on high-quality liquidity asset eligibility in order to ensure that the Banks high-quality liquid assets can be sold without causing a significant movement in the price and with minimum loss of value.
In addition, TBC Bank has a liquidity contingency plan, which is part of the Banks overall prudential liquidity policy and is designed to ensure that TBC Bank is able to meet its funding and liquidity requirements and maintain its core business operations in deteriorating liquidity conditions that could arise outside the ordinary course of its business.
The Bank calculates its liquidity ratios on a daily basis in accordance with the NBGs requirements.
The Liquidity Ratio: The limit is set by the NBG for average liquidity ratio, which is calculated as the ratio of average liquid assets to average liabilities for the respective month, including borrowings from financial institutions and part of off-balance sheet liabilities with residual maturity up to 6 months.
NBG LCR is calculated by reference to the qualified liquid assets divided by 30-day cash net outflows defined as per NBG guidelines.
The limit is set by the NBG as per total LCR also by currency GEL, FX.
To promote larisation in the country of Georgia, NBG defines a lower limit for GEL LCR than that for FX LCR.
In addition, NBG mandatory Regulatory reserves in FX currency is only considered at 75% per LCR calculation purposes.
NBG guidelines apply higher withdrawal rates to the deposits and off-balance instruments depending on the clients groups concentration than those rates defined per Basel III requirements.
As of 31 December the ratios were well above the prudential limit set by the NBG as follows: 2017 2016 2015 Average Liquidity Ratio 32.5% 30.8% 34.4% Total Liquidity Coverage Ratio 112,72% GEL Liquidity Coverage Ratio 95.62% FX Liquidity Coverage Ratio 122.88% According to daily cash flow forecasts and the surplus in liquidity standing, the Treasury Department places funds in short-term liquid assets, largely made up of short-term risk-free securities, interbank deposits and other interbank facilities, to ensure that sufficient liquidity is maintained within the Group as a whole.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 231 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued Maturity analysis: The table below summarises the maturity analysis of the Groups financial liabilities, based on remaining undiscounted contractual obligations as of 31 December 2017.
Subject-to-notice repayments are treated as if notice were to be given immediately.
However, the Group expects that many customers will not request repayment on the earliest date the Group could be required to pay and the table does not reflect the expected cash flows indicated by the Groups deposit retention history.
The maturity analysis of financial liabilities as of 31 December 2017 is as follows: From Less than From 3 to 12months to In thousands of GEL 3 months 12months 5 years Over 5 years Total Liabilities Due to Credit institutions 1,142,865 418,613 1,167,970 151,417 2,880,865 Customer accounts individuals 2,532,039 1,378,835 522,104 40,727 4,473,705 Customer accounts other 3,068,027 192,852 133,236 80,976 3,475,091 Other financial liabilities 82,685 8,808 260 91,753 Subordinated debt 5,060 74,191 198,042 346,703 623,996 Debt securities in issue 504 8,814 13,687 23,005 Gross settled forwards 176,822 5,509 182,331 Performance guarantees 55,914 241,460 306,788 8,135 612,297 Financial guarantees 52,256 122,014 74,457 155 248,882 Other credit related commitments 728,178 728,178 Total potential future payments for financial obligations 7,844,350 2,451,096 2,416,544 628,113 13,340,103 The maturity analysis of financial liabilities as of 31 December 2016 is as follows: From Less than From 3 to 12months to In thousands of GEL 3 months 12months 5 years Over 5 years Total Liabilities Due to Credit institutions 837,188 310,447 1,103,959 168,271 2,419,865 Customer accounts individuals 2,147,015 1,284,067 360,609 39,578 3,831,269 Customer accounts other 2,287,043 238,551 134,293 74,180 2,734,067 Other financial liabilities 46,971 2,883 1,144 50,998 Subordinated debt 4,853 29,510 238,224 360,551 633,138 Debt securities in issue 616 6,584 22,745 29,945 Gross settled forwards 16,084 3,641 369 20,094 Performance guarantees 60,552 154,616 210,595 845 426,608 Financial guarantees 117,994 102,311 50,657 140 271,102 Other credit related commitments 449,110 449,110 Total potential future payments for financial obligations 5,967,426 2,132,610 2,122,595 643,565 10,866,196 The maturity analysis of financial liabilities as of 31 December 2015 is as follows: From Less than From 3 to 12months to In thousands of GEL 3 months 12months 5 years Over 5 years Total Liabilities Due to Credit institutions 518,915 148,380 520,673 24,181 1,212,149 Customer accounts individuals 1,346,154 889,799 348,627 23,859 2,608,439 Customer accounts other 1,419,830 119,695 98,836 23,739 1,662,100 Other financial liabilities 36,099 1,196 2,140 39,435 Subordinated debt 2,284 54,214 215,062 132,636 404,196 Debt securities in issue 480 17,996 5,061 23,537 Gross settled forwards 94,368 1,967 96,335 Performance guarantees 16,023 88,666 137,944 550 243,183 Financial guarantees 75,707 65,959 26,836 131 168,633 Other credit related commitments 247,159 247,159 Total potential future payments for financial obligations 3,757,019 1,387,872 1,355,179 205,096 6,705,166 232 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued The undiscounted financial liability analysis gap does not reflect the historical stability of the current accounts.
Their liquidation has historically taken place over a longer period than the one indicated in the tables above.
These balances are included in amounts due in less than three months in the tables above.
Term Deposits included in the customer accounts are classified based on remaining contractual maturities, according to the Georgian Civil Code, however, individuals have the right to withdraw their deposits prior to maturity if they partially or fully forfeit their right to accrued interest and the Group is obliged to repay such deposits upon the depositors demand.
Based on the Banks deposit retention history, the management does not expect that many customers will require repayment on the earliest possible date: accordingly, the table does not reflect the managements expectations as to actual cash outflows.
The Group does not use the above undiscounted maturity analysis to manage liquidity.
Instead, the Group monitors the liquidity gap analysis based on the expected maturities.
In particular, the customers deposits are distributed in the given maturity gaps following their behavioural analysis.
As of 31 December 2017 the analysis by expected maturities may be as follows: Less than From 3 to From 1 to 5 In thousands of GEL 3 months 12months Years Over 5 years Total Assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,431,477 1,431,477 Due from other banks 32,845 3,071 3,727 39,643 Mandatory cash balances with National Bank of Georgia 1,033,818 1,033,818 Loans and advances to customers 1,031,608 1,767,797 3,438,180 2,087,768 8,325,353 Investment securities available for sale 657,938 657,938 Bonds carried at amortised cost 81,859 105,956 216,177 45,546 449,538 Finance lease receivables 22,896 38,526 82,414 143,836 Other financial assets 110,604 22,207 13,333 146,144 Total financial assets 4,403,045 1,937,557 3,753,831 2,133,314 12,227,747 Liabilities Due to Credit institutions 1,137,076 351,381 990,480 141,777 2,620,714 Customer accounts 844,123 136,821 6,835,873 7,816,817 Debt securities in issue 47 7,778 12,870 20,695 Other financial liabilities 82,685 8,808 260 91,753 Subordinated debt 3,471 49,694 97,372 276,251 426,788 Total financial liabilities 2,067,402 554,482 1,100,982 7,253,901 10,976,767 Credit related commitments and performance guarantees Performance guarantees 2,067 2,067 Financial guarantees 8,239 8,239 Other credit related commitments 105,268 105,268 Credit related commitments and performance guarantees 115,574 115,574 Net liquidity gap as of 31 December 2017 2,220,069 1,383,075 2,652,849 5,120,587 1,135,406 Cumulative gap as of 31 December 2017 2,220,069 3,603,144 6,255,993 1,135,406 The management believes that the Group has sufficient liquidity to meet its current onand off-balance sheet obligations.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 233 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued As of 31 December 2016 the analysis by expected maturities may be as follows: Less than From 3 to From 1 to 5 In thousands of GEL 3 months 12months Years Over 5 years Total Assets Cash and cash equivalents 945,180 945,180 Due from other banks 4,417 5,210 5,544 9,554 24,725 Mandatory cash balances with National Bank of Georgia 990,642 990,642 Loans and advances to customers 1,119,128 1,481,095 2,949,227 1,584,252 7,133,702 Investment securities available for sale 430,703 430,703 Bonds carried at amortised cost 123,763 94,250 128,201 26,742 372,956 Finance lease receivables 18,770 30,600 45,661 95,031 Other financial assets 64,328 10,595 19,704 94,627 Total financial assets 3,696,931 1,621,750 3,148,337 1,620,548 10,087,566 Liabilities Due to Credit institutions 796,148 260,046 986,857 154,526 2,197,577 Customer accounts 723,340 154,513 5,577,096 6,454,949 Debt securities in issue 145 5,277 18,086 23,508 Other financial liabilities 46,971 2,883 1,144 50,998 Subordinated debt 3,333 4,893 125,174 234,981 368,381 Total financial liabilities 1,569,937 427,612 1,131,261 5,966,603 9,095,413 Credit related commitments and performance guarantees Performance guarantees 2,635 2,635 Financial guarantees 8,049 8,049 Other credit related commitments 45,854 45,854 Credit related commitments and performance guarantees 56,538 56,538 Net liquidity gap as of 31 December 2016 2,070,456 1,194,138 2,017,076 4,346,055 935,615 Cumulative gap as of 31 December 2016 2,070,456 3,264,594 5,281,670 935,615 234 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued As of 31 December 2015 the analysis by expected maturities may be as follows: Less than 3 From 3 to From 1 to 5 In thousands of GEL months 12months Years Over 5 years Total Assets Cash and cash equivalents 720,347 720,347 Due from other banks 1,290 1,059 8,693 11,042 Mandatory cash balances with National Bank of Georgia 471,490 471,490 Loans and advances to customers 697,228 950,170 1,907,830 889,658 4,444,886 Investment securities available for sale 307,310 307,310 Bonds carried at amortised cost 86,357 113,248 145,720 26,767 372,092 Finance lease receivables 16,555 24,444 34,761 75,760 Other financial assets 41,544 5,704 17,069 64,317 Total financial assets 2,342,121 1,094,625 2,105,380 925,118 6,467,244 Liabilities Due to Credit institutions 513,415 114,093 462,636 23,430 1,113,574 Customer accounts 346,674 27,885 3,803,372 4,177,931 Debt securities in issue 32 16,916 4,766 21,714 Other financial liabilities 36,099 1,196 2,140 39,435 Subordinated debt 1,303 33,042 145,566 103,737 283,648 Total financial liabilities 897,523 193,132 615,108 3,930,539 5,636,302 Credit related commitments and performance guarantees Performance guarantees 1,472 1,472 Financial guarantees 5,589 5,589 Other credit related commitments 36,982 36,982 Credit related commitments and performance guarantees 44,043 44,043 Net liquidity gap as of 31 December 2015 1,400,555 901,493 1,490,272 3,005,421 786,899 Cumulative gap as of 31 December 2015 1,400,555 2,302,048 3,792,320 786,899 In order to assess the possible outflow of the banks customer accounts management applied value-at-risk analysis.
The statistical data was used on the basis of a holding period of one month for a look-back period of five years with a confidence level of 99%.
The value at risk analysis was performed for the following maturity gaps: 0-1 months, 0-3 months, 0-6 months and 0-12 months, based on which the maximum percentage of deposits outflow was calculated.
Management believes that in spite of a substantial portion of customers accounts being on demand, diversification of these deposits by number and type of depositors, and the past experience of the Group would indicate that these customer accounts provide a long-term and stable source of funding for the Group.
Moreover, the Groups liquidity risk management includes estimation of maturities for its current deposits.
The estimate is based on statistical methods applied to historic information on the fluctuations of customer account balances.
Operating environment: Most of the Groups business is based in Georgia.
Emerging economies, such as Georgias, are subject to rapid change and are vulnerable to global market conditions and economic downturns.
As a consequence, operations in Georgia may be exposed to certain risks that are not typically associated with those in developed markets.
Nevertheless, over the last few years the Georgian government has embarked on a number of civil, criminal, tax, administrative and commercial reforms that have positively affected the overall investment climate of the country.
Today Georgia has an international reputation as a country with a favourable investment environment.
Georgia continued to progress in the report Doing Business 2018 by the World Bank WB and International Financing Corporation IFC, ranking as the 9th easiest country in the world to do business out of 190, up by 7 steps compared to the previous year rankings.
The country improved its ranking in almost all categories, confirming its position as a regional leader and outperforming most of the EU economies.
Georgia also boasts low corruption levels, a low tax burden, and high transparency of its institutions according to the number of surveys by international institutions.
The domestic economic environment remains stable and the banking sector continues to grow, supported by broader macroeconomic stability and attractive business climate.
GDP growth stood at 5.0% YoY growth in 2017.
Growth was broad based across different sectors of the economy and was mostly driven by construction, trade and repairs, real estate, transport and communications sectors.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 235 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 36 Financial and Other Risk Management continued Economic recovery in almost all trading partner countries of Georgia continues to underpin growth in export, tourism and remittances inflows.
Exports of goods went up by 29.1% YoY in 2017, growth was diversified across different regions.
Exports increased most to CIS countries 60.0% YoY, exports continued to grow to EU 13.0% YoY as well as to other countries 12.2% YoY.
Imports of goods also went up by 9.4%, making the balance of trade in goods worsen slightly by 1.4% YoY in 2017.
Tourism inflows went up by an estimated 28.0% YoY with the total number of visitors exceeding 7.5 million.
Sharp growth in tourism revenues have a sizeable positive impact on Georgias Current Account balance.
Remittance inflows increased by 19.8% YoY in 2017, with remittances up by 15.1% YoY from EU and 15.6% YoY from CIS countries.
Growth of remittances from other countries stood at 31.3% YoY.
In the latter group of countries Israel and Turkey had the highest contribution to growth as remittances from these countries went up by 96.1% YoY and 25.6% YoY, respectively.
Given the positive trend in external inflows, CA balance improved markedly, in the first 9 months of 2017 CA deficit as a % of GDP stood at 7.1% compared to the 11.2% over the same period last year.
Annual CPI inflation peaked in June, 2017 at 7.1% and declined slightly to 6.7% by the end of 2017.
Increased excise taxes in the beginning of 2017, higher oil prices and depreciation of the nominal effective exchange rate of GEL were among the factors that kept inflation close to 7% by the end of the year.
To address above target inflation, NBG increased policy rate by 0.25 PP from 7% to 7.25% in December, 2017.
Overall, in 2017 NBG raised policy rate by 0.75 PP, from 6.5% in the beginning of 2017 to 7.25% by the end of 2017.
Fiscal deficit narrowed from 3.9% in 2016 to an estimated 3.8% in 2017, in line with the governments strategy to gradually bring down the budget deficit below 3% over the medium term.
Reduction in budget deficit mostly reflected better than expected growth of tax revenues as well as more prudent approach towards current spending.
Budget project for 2018 envisages further reduction of budget deficit to c. 3% of GDP, which should further strengthen the fiscal position of the country.
37 Management of Capital The Groups objectives in terms of capital management are to maintain appropriate levels of capital to support the business strategy, meet regulatory and stress testing-related requirements and safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Additionally, the Groups capital management objectives entail ensuring that the Bank complies with the capital requirements set by the Basel Capital Accord 1988 capital adequacy ratios as stipulated by borrowing agreements.
The compliance with capital adequacy ratios set by the NBG is monitored monthly with the reports outlining their calculation and are reviewed and signed by the Banks CFO and Deputy CFO.
The Bank and the Group complied with all its internally and externally imposed capital requirements throughout 2015, 2016 and 2017.
In December 2017, the NBG has introduced updated capital framework that is more compliant with Basel III guidelines.
Under updated capital framework capital requirements are divided into Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 buffers.
Details regarding the capital buffers are outlined below: The capital conservation buffer which was incorporated in minimum capital requirements is separated and set at 2.5%: A systemic risk buffer will be introduced for systematically important banks over the 4 years period: A countercyclical capital buffer is currently set at 0%: A currency induced credit risk CICR buffer replaced conservative weighting for un-hedged FX loans denominated in foreign currencies: Concentration buffer for sectoral and single borrower exposure will be introduced: A net stress buffer will be introduced based on stress testing results provided by the Group: A General Risk-assessment Programme GRAPE buffer defined by the regulator, will be applied based on the Banks specific risks.
In addition, based on the updated methodology, specific PTI payment to income and LTV loan to value thresholds were introduced.
For the exposures which do not fall into pre-defined limits for PTI and LTV ratios, higher risk weights were applied.
NBG Basel I Capital adequacy ratio Under the NBG Basel I capital requirements set by the NBG in 2017 banks have to maintain a ratio of regulatory capital to risk weighted assets statutory capital ratio above the minimum level of 9.6% and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets above the minimum level of 6.4%.
No additional add-ons are in place.
In mid-2015, the NBG removed previously established 3% capital add-on.
2017 is the last phase for Basel I and will be ruled out fully from January 2018.
The regulatory capital is based on the Banks standalone reports prepared in accordance with the NBG accounting rules: 236 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 37 Management of Capital continued In thousands of GEL 2017 Share capital 575,140 Retained earnings and other disclosed reserves 937,041 General loan loss provisions up to 1.25 % of riskweighted assets 171,791 Less intangible assets 103,072 Less Investments into subsidiary companies and capital of other banks 55,138 Less Investments in the capital of the resident banks Subordinated debt included in regulatory capital 375,813 Total regulatory capital 1,901,575 Risk-weighted exposures Credit risk-weighted assets including off-balance obligations 10,191,259 Currency Induced Credit Risk 3,638,814 Minus general and special reserves 217,643 Risk-weighted assets 13,612,430 Tier 1 Capital adequacy ratio 8.2% Total Capital adequacy ratio 14.0% The breakdown of the Banks assets into the carrying amounts based on the NBG accounting rules and relevant risk-weighted exposures as of the end of 2017 are given in the tables below: 2017 In thousands of GEL Risk-weighted Exposures Carrying Value RW amount Cash, cash equivalents, Interbank Deposits and Securities 3,547,937 259,870 Gross Loans and accrued interests 8,609,951 11,979,513 Repossessed assets 58,530 58,530 Fixed assets and intangible assets 486,160 383,087 Other assets 271,091 251,573 Total 12,973,669 12,932,573 Total Off-balance sheet 1,820,064 897,500 Minus general and special reserves 217,643 217,643 Total Amount 14,576,090 13,612,430 Under the previous capital requirements set by the NBG banks had to maintain a ratio of regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets statutory capital ratio above the minimum level of 10.8% and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets above the minimum level of 7.2%.
The regulatory capital is based on the Banks standalone reports prepared in accordance with the NBG accounting rules: In thousands of GEL 2016 2015 Share capital 567,089 443,987 Retained earnings and other disclosed reserves 770,345 568,604 General loan loss provisions up to 1.25 % of riskweighted assets 115,559 87,037 Less intangible assets 53,074 41,080 Less Investments into subsidiary companies and capital of other banks 61,855 50,840 Less Investments in the capital of the resident banks 351,040 Subordinated debt included in regulatory capital 342,653 173,652 Total regulatory capital 1,329,677 1,181,360 Risk-weighted exposures Credit risk-weighted assets including off-balance obligations 6,750,917 5,304,184 Currency Induced Credit Risk 2,855,296 2,056,062 Minus general and special reserves 205,968 205,131 Risk-weighted assets 9,400,245 7,155,115 Tier 1 Capital adequacy ratio 10.9% 11.0% Total Capital adequacy ratio 14.1% 16.5% TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 237 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 37 Management of Capital continued The breakdown of the Banks assets into the carrying amounts based on the NBG accounting rules and relevant risk-weighted exposures as of the end of 2016 and 2015 are given in the tables below: 2016 In thousands of GEL Risk weighted Exposures Carrying Value RW amount Cash, cash equivalents, interbank deposits and securities 2,372,263 163,294 Gross loans and accrued interests 5,979,125 8,427,081 Repossessed assets 46,441 46,441 Fixed assets and intangible assets 328,184 275,110 Other assets 620,428 278,394 Total 9,346,441 9,190,320 Total off-balance sheet 875,585 415,893 Minus general and special reserves 205,968 205,968 Total amount 10,016,058 9,400,245 2015 In thousands of GEL Risk-weighted Exposures Carrying Value RW amount Cash, cash equivalents, interbank deposits and securities 1,794,873 85,733 Gross loans and accrued interests 4,671,693 6,445,027 Repossessed assets 44,253 44,253 Fixed assets and intangible assets 306,368 265,288 Other assets 177,111 151,073 Total 6,994,298 6,991,374 Total off-balance sheet 696,260 368,872 Minus general and special reserves 205,131 205,131 Total Amount 7,485,427 7,155,115 NBG Basel II Capital adequacy ratio By the end of 2017 both, Tier 1 and Total capital adequacy ratios are calculated based on the Basel III methodology introduced by NBG.
The details are described on page 236.
The table below presents the capital adequacy ratios as well as minimum requirements set by the NBG.
In thousands of GEL 2017 Tier 1 Capital 1,437,218 Tier 2 Capital 448,069 Regulatory capital 1,885,287 Risk-weighted Exposures Credit risk-weighted exposures 9,754,146 Risk-weighted exposures for market risk 28,802 Risk-weighted exposures for operational risk 970,241 Total risk-weighted exposures 10,753,189 Minimum Tier 1 ratio 10.3% Tier 1 Capital adequacy ratio 13.4% Minimum total capital adequacy ratio 12.9% Total Capital adequacy ratio 17.5% 238 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 37 Management of Capital continued The breakdown of the Banks assets into the carrying amounts based on NBG accounting rules and relevant risk-weighted exposures as of 31 December 2017 are given in the tables below: 2017 In thousands of GEL Carrying Value RW amount Cash, cash equivalents, Interbank Exposures and Securities 3,510,760 1,275,017 Gross loans and accrued interests, 8,233,132 6,798,464 Repossessed assets 58,530 58,530 Fixed assets and intangible assets 437,878 264,768 Other assets 553,176 713,096 Minus general provision, penalty and interest provision 30,862 30,862 Total 12,762,614 9,079,013 Total Off-balance 1,919,565 675,133 Market Risk 28,802 28,802 Operational Risk 517,462 970,241 Total Amount 15,228,443 10,753,189 For years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 under the NBG Basel II III requirements, the Bank calculated its capital requirements and risk weighted assets separately for Pillar 1.
The NBG provided detailed instructions of Pillar 1 calculations.
The reporting started at the end of 2013.
The composition of the Banks capital calculated in accordance with Basel II Pillar I is as follows: In thousands of GEL 2016 2015 Tier 1 Capital 1,041,270 953,403 Tier 2 Capital 380,751 245,705 Regulatory capital 1,422,021 1,199,108 Risk-weighted exposures Credit risk-weighted exposures 9,399,140 7,005,711 Risk-weighted exposures for market risk 45,689 18,651 Risk-weighted exposures for operational risk 576,628 452,089 Total risk-weighted exposures 10,021,457 7,476,451 Minimum Tier 1 ratio 8.5% 8.5% Tier 1 Capital adequacy ratio 10.4% 12.8% Minimum total capital adequacy ratio 10.5% 10.5% Total Capital adequacy ratio 14.2% 16.0% The breakdown of the Banks assets into the carrying amounts based on NBG accounting rules and relevant risk-weighted exposures as of 31December 2016 and 2015 are given in the tables below: 2016 In thousands of GEL Carrying Value RW amount Cash, cash equivalents, Interbank Exposures and Securities 2,397,259 1,086,262 Gross loans and accrued interests, excluding loans to JSC Bank Constanta 5,771,369 7,149,145 Repossessed assets 46,441 46,441 Fixed assets and intangible assets 328,184 273,176 Other assets 647,261 536,747 Minus general provision, penalty and interest provision 45,534 45,534 Total 9,144,980 9,046,237 Total Off-balance 978,221 352,903 Market Risk 45,689 45,689 Operational Risk 403,640 576,628 Total Amount 10,572,530 10,021,457 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 239 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 37 Management of Capital continued 2015 In thousands of GEL Carrying Value RW amount Cash, cash equivalents, Interbank Exposures and Securities 1,857,283 570,748 Gross loans and accrued interests, excluding loans to JSC Bank Constanta 4,442,340 5,555,538 Repossessed assets 44,253 44,253 Fixed assets and intangible assets 306,368 334,472 Other assets 179,535 219,572 Minus general provision, penalty and interest provision 36,630 36,630 Total 6,793,149 6,687,953 Total Off-balance 789,224 317,758 Market Risk 18,651 18,651 Operational Risk 316,462 452,089 Total Amount 7,917,486 7,476,451 Capital adequacy ratio under Basel Capital Accord 1988 The Group and the Bank are also subject to minimum capital requirements established by covenants stated in loan agreements.
These requirements include capital adequacy levels calculated in accordance with the requirements of the Basel Accord, as defined in the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards updated April 1998 and Amendment to the Capital Accord to incorporate market risks updated November 2005, commonly known as Basel I.
The composition of the Groups capital calculated in accordance with Basel Accord is as follows: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Tier 1 capital Share capital 524,807 524,778 427,061 Retained earnings and disclosed reserves 1,254,331 983,387 725,498 Less: Goodwill 26,892 26,892 2,726 Non-controlling interest 4,735 4,383 7,189 Total tier 1 capital 1,756,981 1,485,656 1,157,022 Tier 2 capital Revaluation reserves 64,489 59,240 58,701 General Reserve 109,372 88,300 59,770 Subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital 355,944 323,087 173,652 Total tier 2 capital 529,805 470,627 292,123 Total capital 2,286,786 1,956,283 1,449,145 Credit risk-weighted assets including off-balance obligations 8,749,752 7,064,035 4,781,605 Less: General Reserve 118,492 136,721 134,373 Market Risk 40,803 46,484 32,605 Total Risk-weighted assets 8,672,063 6,973,798 4,679,837 Minimum Tier 1 ratio 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% Tier 1 Capital adequacy ratio 20.3% 21.3% 24.7% Minimum total capital adequacy ratio 8.0% 8.0% 8.0% Total Capital adequacy ratio 26.4% 28.1% 31.0% Following the Basel I guidelines the General Reserve is defined by the management as the minimum among the following: a IFRS provisions created on loans without impairment trigger event: b 2% of loans without impairment trigger event: c 1.25% of total RWA Risk-weighted Assets.
240 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 37 Management of Capital continued The breakdown of the Groups assets into the carrying amounts and relevant risk-weighted exposures as of the end of 2017, 2016, 2015 are provided in the tables below: 2017 In thousands of GEL Risk-weighted Exposures Carrying Value RW amount Cash and other cash equivalents, mandatory cash balances with the NBG, due from other banks, investment securities available for sale 3,609,132 214,353 Gross loans and accrued interests 8,553,217 6,885,960 Repossessed assets 116,809 116,809 Fixed assets and intangible assets 476,027 449,136 Other assets 409,876 409,876 Total 13,165,061 8,076,134 Total Off-balance 1,907,457 673,618 Less: Loan loss provision minus General Reserve 118,492 118,492 Market Risk 40,803 40,803 Total Amount 14,994,829 8,672,063 2016 In thousands of GEL Risk weighted Exposures Carrying Value RW amount Cash and other cash equivalents, mandatory cash balances with the NBG, due from other banks, investment securities available for sale 2,762,892 133,527 Gross loans and accrued interests 7,358,725 5,609,312 Repossessed assets 90,873 90,873 Fixed assets and intangible assets 401,174 374,282 Other assets 373,118 373,118 Total 10,986,782 6,581,112 Total Off-balance 1,290,813 482,923 Less: Loan loss provision minus General Reserve 136,721 136,721 Market Risk 46,484 46,484 Total Amount 12,187,358 6,973,798 2015 In thousands of GEL Risk weighted Exposures Carrying Value RW amount Cash and other cash equivalents, mandatory cash balances with the NBG, due from other banks, investment securities available for sale 1,882,281 103,406 Gross loans and accrued interests 4,639,029 3,757,464 Repossessed assets 85,216 85,216 Fixed assets and intangible assets 294,837 292,111 Other assets 227,775 227,775 Total 7,129,138 4,465,972 Total Off-balance 849,295 315,633 Less: Loan loss provision minus General Reserve 134,373 134,373 Market Risk 32,605 32,605 Total Amount 7,876,665 4,679,837 38 Contingencies and Commitments Legal proceedings.
When determining the level of provision to be set up with regards to such claims, or the amount not subject to provisioning to be disclosed in the financial statements, the management seeks both internal and external professional advice.
The management believes that the provision recorded in these financial statements is adequate and the amount not subject to provisioning need not be disclosed as it will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or the results of future operations of the Group.
Georgian and Azerbaijani tax and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations, and changes, which can occur frequently.
The managements interpretation of the legislation as applied to the Groups transactions and activity may be challenged by the relevant authorities.
Fiscal periods remain open to review by the authorities in respect of taxes for five calendar years preceding the review period.
To respond to the risks, the Group has engaged external tax specialists to carry out periodic reviews of Groups taxation policies and tax filings.
The Groups management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and the Groups tax and customs positions will be sustained.
Accordingly, as of 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015 no provision for potential tax liabilities has been recorded.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 241 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 38 Contingencies and Commitments continued Operating lease commitments: Where the Group is the lessee, as of 31 December 2017, the future minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases over the next year amounted to GEL 6,479 thousand 31 December 2016: 5,016 thousand: 31 December 2015: 4,891 thousand.
Compliance with covenants: The Group is subject to certain covenants primarily related to its borrowings.
Non-compliance with such covenants may result in negative consequences for the Group including growth in the cost of borrowings and declaration of default.
In April 2017, the group had breached one of the covenants with a foreign financial institution lender.
The group has obtained the waiver from the financial institution in June 2017, whereby the breach was retrospectively waived.
As of 31 December 2016, TBC Kredit had breached certain borrowing covenants agreed with foreign financial institution lenders.
The major reason for the breach was the drastic devaluation of Azerbaijani Manat in February and December 2015.
The Group was in compliance with all other covenants as of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
The Group was in compliance with all covenants as of 31 December 2015. Credit related commitments and financial guarantees: The primary purpose of these instruments is to ensure that funds are available to a customer as required.
Financial guarantees and standby letters of credit, which represent the irrevocable assurances that the Group will make payments in the event that a customer cannot meet its obligations to third parties, carry the same credit risk as loans.
Documentary and commercial letters of credit, that are written undertakings by the Group on behalf of a customer authorising a third party to draw drafts on the Group up to a stipulated amount under specific terms and conditions, are collateralised by the underlying shipments of goods to which they relate or cash deposits and therefore carry less risk than a direct borrowing.
Commitments to extend credit represent unused portions of authorisations to prolong credit in the form of loans, guarantees or letters of credit.
With respect to credit risk on commitments to extend credit, the Group is potentially exposed to a loss in an amount equal to the total unused commitments.
However, the likely amount of loss is lower than the total unused commitments since most commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards.
The Group monitors the term to maturity of credit related commitments because longer-term commitments generally have a greater degree of credit risk than shorter-term ones.
Performance guarantees: Performance guarantees are contracts that provide compensation in case of another party failing to perform a contractual obligation.
The risk under the performance guarantee contracts is the possibility that the insured event occurs ie: the failure to perform the contractual obligation by another party.
The key risks the Group faces are significant fluctuations in the frequency and severity of payments incurred on such contracts, relative to expectations.
Outstanding credit related commitments and performance guarantees are as follows: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Performance guarantees issued 612,297 426,608 243,183 Financial guarantees issued 141,963 116,260 71,999 Undrawn credit lines 728,178 449,110 247,159 Letters of credit issued 106,919 154,842 96,634 Total credit related commitments and performance guarantees before provision 1,589,357 1,146,820 658,975 Provision for performance guarantees 2,067 2,635 1,472 Provision for credit related commitments and financial guarantees 8,239 8,049 5,589 Total credit related commitments and performance guarantees 1,579,051 1,136,136 651,914 The total outstanding contractual amount of undrawn credit lines, letters of credit, and guarantees does not necessarily represent future cash requirements, as these financial instruments may expire or terminate without being funded.
Non-cancellable commitments as of 31 December 2017 were GEL 389,148 thousand 2016: GEL 169,831 thousand: 2015: GEL 136,867 thousand.
Fair value of credit related commitments and financial guarantees were GEL 8,239thousand as of 31 December 2017 2016: GEL8,049thousand: 2015: GEL5,589thousand.
Total credit related commitments and performance guarantees are denominated in currencies as follows: In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Georgian Laris 618,544 409,498 259,749 US Dollars 734,970 545,621 319,941 Euros 166,304 101,892 44,874 Other 69,539 89,809 34,411 Total 1,589,357 1,146,820 658,975 Capital expenditure commitments.
As of 31 December 2017, the Group has contractual capital expenditure commitments amounting to GEL 7,816 thousand 2016: GEL 5,665 thousand: 2015: GEL 6,771 thousand.
242 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 39 Non-Controlling Interest The following table provides information about each subsidiary with a non-controlling interest as of 31 December 2017: Proportion of Dividends paid nonProfit Accumulated to controlling attributable to nonnoninterests noncontrolling controlling voting rights controlling interest in the interest during In thousands of GEL held interest subsidiary the year TBC Bank JSC including: 1.33% 5,518 29,255 TBC Leasing JSC 0.39% 14 70 TBC Kredit LLC 25% 275 4,165 United Financial Corporation JSC 1.33% 63 500 The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries was as follows as of 31 December 2017: Total compreCurrent Non-current Current Non-current hensive Cash In thousands of GEL assets assets liabilities liabilities Revenue Profit income flows TBC Bank JSC 6,490,075 6,447,122 8,830,604 2,258,231 850,450 362,429 367,678 466,249 TBC Leasing JSC 111,169 87,928 95,988 85,262 15,236 3,436 3,436 2,450 TBC Kredit LLC 19,771 20,319 11,858 20,636 5,172 1,098 1,098 3,631 United Financial Corporation JSC 6,353 5,136 1,255 45 12,708 4,733 4,733 40 The following table provides information about each subsidiary with a non-controlling interest as of 31 December 2016: Dividends Proportion of paid to nonProfit loss Accumulated noncontrolling attributable to noncontrolling interests noncontrolling interest voting rights controlling interest in the during the In thousands of GEL held interest subsidiary year TBC Bank JSC including: 1.52% 887 28,264 TBC Leasing JSC 0.39% 9 56 TBC Kredit LLC 25% 2,865 3,890 United Financial Corporation JSC 1.34% 50 436 The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries was as follows as of 31 December 2016: Total comprehensive Current Non-current Current Non-current income Cash In thousands of GEL assets assets liabilities liabilities Revenue Profit loss expense flows TBC Bank JSC 5,492,825 5,268,934 7,105,314 2,084,656 679,912 302,491 303,031 224,421 TBC Leasing JSC 71,484 49,140 54,930 51,283 11,566 2,316 2,316 5,425 TBC Kredit LLC 20,649 19,458 16,034 17,867 8,367 11,461 11,461 4,291 United Financial Corporation JSC 9,271 5,800 9,114 45 11,979 3,737 3,737 1,243 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 243 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 39 Non-Controlling Interest continued The following table provides information about each subsidiary with non-controlling interest as of 31 December 2015: Dividends Proportion of paid to nonProfit loss Accumulated noncontrolling attributable to noncontrolling interests noncontrolling interest voting rights controlling interest in the during the In thousands of GEL held interest subsidiary year TBC Leasing JSC 0.43% 8 47 TBC Kredit LLC 25% 250 6,756 United Financial Corporation JSC 1.33% 60 386 The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries was as follows as of 31 December 2015: Total comprehensive Current Non-current Current Non-current income Cash In thousands of GEL assets assets liabilities liabilities Revenue Profit loss expense flows TBC Leasing JSC 69,642 36,323 29,607 65,378 9,511 1,960 1,960 8,769 TBC Kredit LLC 41,703 36,053 57,773 1,509 15,319 1,002 1,002 7,290 United Financial Corporation JSC 5,453 6,470 675 73 12,512 4,476 4,476 1,908 40 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities As of 31 December 2017, financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar arrangements were as follows: Amounts subject to master Gross netting and similar amounts Gross arrangements not set off in the before amounts set Net amount statement of offsetting off after financial position in the in the offsetting in statement of statement of the statement Cash financial financial of financial Financial collateral Net amount position position position instruments received of exposure In thousands of GEL a b c a b d e c d e ASSETS Other financial assets: Receivables on credit card services and money transfers 29,308 2,605 26,703 26,703 TOTAL ASSETS SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 29,308 2,605 26,703 26,703 LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities: Payables on credit card services and money transfers 12,964 2,605 10,359 10,359 TOTAL LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 12,964 2,605 10,359 10,359 244 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 40 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities continued As of 31 December 2016, financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar arrangements were as follows: Amounts subject to master Gross netting and similar amounts Gross arrangements not set off in the before amounts set Net amount statement of financial offsetting off after position in the in the offsetting in statement of statement of the statement Cash financial financial of financial Financial collateral Net amount position position position instruments received of exposure In thousands of GEL a b c a b d e c d e ASSETS Other financial assets: Receivables on credit card services and money transfers 26,959 2,158 24,801 24,801 TOTAL ASSETS SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 26,959 2,158 24,801 24,801 LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities: Payables on credit card services and money transfers 14,563 2,158 12,405 12,405 TOTAL LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 14,563 2,158 12,405 12,405 As of 31 December 2015, financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar arrangements were as follows: Amounts subject to master Gross netting and similar amounts Gross arrangements not set off in the before amounts set Net amount statement of financial offsetting off after position in the in the offsetting in statement of statement of the statement Cash financial financial of financial Financial collateral Net amount position position position instruments received of exposure In thousands of GEL a b c a b d e c d e ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents Reverse repo 47,768 47,768 47,768 Other financial assets: Receivables on credit card services and money transfers 17,821 2,749 15,072 15,072 TOTAL ASSETS SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 65,589 2,749 62,840 47,768 15,072 LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities: Payables on credit card services and money transfers 15,300 2,749 12,551 12,551 TOTAL LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, MASTER NETTING AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENT 15,300 2,749 12,551 12,551 The amount set off in the statement of financial position reported in column b is the lower of i the gross amount before offsetting reported in column a and ii the amount of the related instrument that is eligible for offsetting.
Similarly, the amounts in columns d and e are limited to the exposure reported in column c for each individual instrument in order not to understate the ultimate net exposure.
Deposits placed with other banks and deposits received from other banks as part of gross settled currency swap arrangements have been netted-off in these financial statements and the instrument has been presented as either asset or liability at a fair value.
The disclosure does not apply to loans and advances to customers and related customer deposits unless they are netted-off in the statement of financial position.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 245 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 41 Derivative Financial Instruments In the normal course of business, the Group enters into various derivative financial instruments, to manage currency, liquidity and interest rate risks and for trading purposes.
In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Fair value of gross settled currency swaps, included in other financial assets or due from banks 1,767 508 605 Fair value of foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps, included in other financial liabilities 909 320 108 Fair value of Interest rate swaps, included in other financial liabilities 267 1,055 2,303 Total 591 867 1,806 Foreign Exchange Forwards and gross settled currency swaps.
Foreign exchange derivative financial instruments the Group entered are generally traded in an over-the-counter market with professional counterparties on standardised contractual terms and conditions.
Derivatives have potentially favourable assets or unfavourable liabilities conditions as a result of fluctuations in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates or other variables relative to their terms.
The aggregate fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly from time to time.
The table below sets out fair values, at the balance sheet date, of currencies receivable or payable under foreign exchange forwards contracts and gross settled currency swaps the Group entered.
The table reflects gross positions before the netting of any counterparty positions and payments and covers the contracts with settlement dates after the respective balance sheet date.
The contracts are short term by their nature.
2017 2016 2015 Contracts Contracts Contracts Contracts Contracts Contracts with positive with negative with positive with negative with positive with negative In thousands of GEL fair value fair value fair value fair value fair value fair value Foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps: fair values, at the balance sheet date, of USD payable on settlement - 166,326 13,125 85,754 USD receivable on settlement 12,877 4,220 13,821 GEL payable on settlement - 1,360 1,604 10,427 GEL receivable on settlement 165,881 10,998 13,857 EUR payable on settlement - 9,315 3,214 1,309 EUR receivable on settlement 3,201 34,024 Other payable on settlement - 2,247 2,150 1,963 Other receivable on settlement 1,348 1,862 38,248 Fair value of foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps 180,106 179,248 20,281 20,093 99,950 99,453 Net fair value of foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps 858 188 497 Interest rate swaps.
In March 2010 TBC Bank entered into an interest rate swap agreement, to hedge floating interest rate on its subordinated debt.
The hedge covers the payment of floating rate interest payments with the notional principal of USD 44,000 thousand.
The swap expires in November 2018.
At the reporting date the fair value of interest rate swaps was estimated to be negative GEL 267 thousand 2016: negative GEL 1,055 thousand: 2015: negative GEL 2,303 thousand.
246 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 42 Fair Value Disclosures a Recurring fair value measurements Recurring fair value measurements are those that the accounting standards require or permit in the statement of financial position at the end of each reporting period.
The level in the fair value hierarchy into which the recurring fair value measurements are categorised as follows: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 In thousands of GEL Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL ASSETS Investment securities available for sale Government notes 1,016 1,016 998 998 Certificates of Deposits of National Bank of Georgia 7,728 7,728 36,002 36,002 84,849 84,849 Corporate bonds 328,761 328,761 150,073 150,073 174,916 174,916 Ministry of Finance Treasury Bills 319,745 319,745 241,810 241,810 33,445 33,445 Corporate shares Visa Inc 9,335 9,335 Foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps, included in other financial assets or due from banks 1,767 1,767 508 508 604 604 NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS Premises and leasehold improvements 283,905 283,905 229,549 229,549 175,184 175,184 TOTAL ASSETS RECURRING FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 658,001 283,905 941,906 429,409 229,549 658,958 9,335 294,812 175,184 479,331 LIABILITIES CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Interest rate swaps included in other financial liabilities 267 267 1,055 1,055 2,303 2,303 Foreign exchange forwards and gross settled currency swaps, included in other financial liabilities 909 909 320 320 108 108 TOTAL LIABILITIES RECURRING FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 1,176 1,176 1,375 1,375 2,411 2,411 There were no transfers between levels 1 and 2 during the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: none, 2015: none.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 247 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 42 Fair Value Disclosures continued The description of the valuation technique and the description of inputs used in the fair value measurement for level 2 measurements: Fair value at 31 December In thousands of GEL 2017 2016 2015 Valuation technique Inputs used ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL ASSETS Certificates of Deposits of NBG, Ministry of Finance Discounted cash flows Government bonds yield Treasury Bills, Government notes, Corporate bonds 656,234 428,901 294,208 DCF curve Foreign exchange forwards and gross settled Forward pricing using Official exchange rate, currency swaps, included in due from banks 1,767 508 604 present value calculations risk-free rate TOTAL ASSETS RECURRING FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 658,001 429,409 294,812 LIABILITIES CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities Interest rate swaps included in other financial Swap model using present liabilities 267 1,055 2,303 value calculations Observable yield curves Foreign exchange forwards included in other Forward pricing using Official exchange rate, financial liabilities 909 320 108 present value calculations risk-free rate TOTAL RECURRING FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS AT LEVEL 2 1,176 1,375 2,411 There were no changes in the valuation technique for the level 2 and level 3 recurring fair value measurements during the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: none: 2015: none.
For details of the techniques and inputs used for Level 3 recurring fair value measurement of as well as reconciliation of movements in premises refer to Note 15.
The unobservable input to which the fair value estimate for premises is most sensitive is price per square metre: the higher the price per square metre, the higher the fair value.
The fair value of unquoted fixed interest rate instruments was calculated based on estimated future cash flows expected to be received discounted at current interest rates for new instruments with similar credit risk and remaining maturity.
The fair value of investment properties was estimated using market comparatives refer to Note 3.
Amounts due to credit institutions were discounted at the Groups own incremental borrowing rate.
Liabilities due on demand were discounted from the first date that the Group could be required to pay the amount.
There were no changes in the valuation technique for the level 2 and level 3 measurements of assets and liabilities not measured at fair values in the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: none: 2015: none.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 249 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 43 Presentation of Financial Instruments by Measurement Category For the measurement purposes, IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition of Measurement, classifies financial assets into the following categories: a loans and receivables: b available for sale financial assets: c financial assets held to maturity: and d financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss have two subcategories: i assets designated as such upon initial recognition, and ii those classified as held for trading.
In addition, finance lease receivables form a separate category.
The following table provides a reconciliation of classes of financial assets with these measurement categories as of 31 December 2017: Loans and Available for Finance lease Assets held In thousands of GEL receivables sale assets receivables for trading Total ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 1,431,477 1,431,477 Due from other banks 39,643 39,643 Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia 1,033,818 1,033,818 Loans and advances to customers 8,325,353 8,325,353 Investment securities available for sale 657,938 657,938 Bonds carried at amortised cost 449,538 449,538 Investments in leases 143,836 143,836 Other financial assets: Other financial receivables 144,377 1,767 146,144 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 11,424,206 657,938 143,836 1,767 12,227,747 NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS 738,163 TOTAL ASSETS 12,965,910 The following table provides a reconciliation of classes of financial assets with these measurement categories as of 31 December 2016: Loans and Available for Finance lease Assets held In thousands of GEL receivables sale assets receivables for trading Total ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 945,180 945,180 Due from other banks 24,725 24,725 Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia 990,642 990,642 Loans and advances to customers 7,133,702 7,133,702 Investment securities available for sale 430,703 430,703 Bonds carried at amortised cost 372,956 372,956 Investments in leases 95,031 95,031 Other financial assets: - Other financial receivables 94,119 508 94,627 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 9,561,324 430,703 95,031 508 10,087,566 NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS 681,466 TOTAL ASSETS 10,769,032 250 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 43 Presentation of Financial Instruments by Measurement Category continued The following table provides a reconciliation of classes of financial assets with these measurement categories as of 31 December 2015: Loans and Available for Finance lease Assets held In thousands of GEL receivables sale assets receivables for trading Total ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 720,347 720,347 Due from other banks 11,042 11,042 Mandatory cash balances with the National Bank of Georgia 471,490 471,490 Loans and advances to customers 4,444,886 4,444,886 Investment securities available for sale 307,310 307,310 Bonds carried at amortised cost 372,092 372,092 Investments in leases 75,760 75,760 Other financial assets: Other financial receivables 63,712 605 64,317 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 6,083,569 307,310 75,760 605 6,467,244 NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS 467,751 TOTAL ASSETS 6,934,995 As of 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015, all of the Groups financial liabilities except for derivatives are carried at amortised cost.
Derivatives belong to the assets held for trading measurement category.
44 Related Party Transactions Pursuant to IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, parties are generally considered to be related if the parties are under common control or one party has the ability to control the other or it can exercise significant influence over the other party in taking financial or operational decisions.
In considering each possible related party relationship, attention is directed to the substance of the relationship, not merely the legal form.
Parties with more than 10% of ownership stake in the TBCG or with representatives in the Board of Directors are considered as Significant Shareholders.
The key management personnel include members of TBCGs Board of Directors, the Management Board of the Bank and their close family members.
Transactions between TBC Bank Group PLC and its subsidiaries also meet the definition of related party transactions.
Where these are eliminated on consolidation, they are not disclosed in the Group Financial Statements.
As of 31 December 2017, the Groups outstanding balances with related parties were as follows: Key Significant management In thousands of GEL shareholders personnel Gross amount of loans and advances to customers contractual interest rate: 0.436% 154 7,112 Impairment provisions for loans and advances to customers 11 Customer accounts contractual interest rate: 011.8 % 40,100 11,190 Guarantees 9,901 512 Provision on guarantees 30 2 The Groups income and expense items with related parties except from key management compensation for the year 2017 were as follows: Key Significant management In thousands of GEL shareholders personnel Interest income loans and advances to customers 20 444 Interest income available securities for sale 747 Interest expense 928 449 Gains less losses from trading in foreign currencies 108 56 Foreign exchange translation gains less losses 46 36 Fee and commission income 122 94 Fee and commission expense 104 Administrative and other operating expenses excluding staff costs 58 239 Net loss on derivative financial instruments 46 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 251 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 44 Related Party Transactions continued The aggregate loan amounts advanced to, and repaid by related parties during 2017 were as follows: Key Significant management In thousands of GEL shareholders personnel Amounts advanced to related parties during the year 573 3,012 Amounts repaid by related parties during the year 1,293 3,920 During the year 2017, 13 related parties were removed from the insider list.
If they had remained in the list, guarantees with related parties as of 31 December 2017 would have been GEL 1,139 thousand higher, net assets with related parties as of 31 December 2017 would have been GEL 214,767 thousand lower.
As of 31 December 2017, transactions and balances of TBC Bank Group PLC with JSC TBC Bank were as follows: Balance as of 31 December In thousands of GEL 2017 Gross amount of loans and advances granted to subsidiary 24,000 Customer accounts placed in subsidiary 11,564 Placement of cash in subsidiary 57 Investment in subsidiary 1,422,462 Included in Investments in subsidiary in Separate Statement of Financial Position GEL 7,023 thousand relates to investment in JSC TBC Insurance.
The income and expense items for TBC Bank Group PLC with JSC TBC Bank except from key management compensation for the year 2017 were as follows: In thousands of GEL 2017 Interest income 1,807 Fee and commission expense 9 Dividend income 90,552 As of 31 December 2016, the Groups outstanding balances with related parties were as follows: Key Significant management In thousands of GEL Note shareholders personnel Gross amount of loans and advances to customers contractual interest rate: 6.320% 900 7,612 Impairment provisions for loans and advances to customers 2 26 Derivative financial liability 41 1,055 Due to credit institutions contractual interest rate: 5.79.7% 257,403 Customer accounts contractual interest rate: 013.5% 38,982 14,548 Guarantees 28,509 Provision on guarantees 192 The Groups income and expense items with related parties except from key management compensation for the year 2016 were as follows: Key Significant management In thousands of GEL Note shareholders personnel Interest income 161 399 Interest expense 17,435 503 Gains less losses from trading in foreign currencies 115 18 Foreign exchange translation gains less losses 170 465 Fee and commission income 69 13 Fee and commission expense 580 Administrative and other operating expenses excluding staff costs 1 155 Net loss on derivative financial instruments 41 206 252 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance 44 Related Party Transactions continued The aggregate loan amounts advanced to, and repaid, by related parties during 2016 were as follows: Key Significant management In thousands of GEL shareholders personnel Amounts advanced to related parties during the year 3,713 10,568 Amounts repaid by related parties during the year 5,994 5,722 As of 31 December 2016, transactions and balances of TBC Bank Group PLC with JSC TBC Bank were as follows: Balance as of 31 December In thousands of GEL 2016 Gross amount of loans and advances granted to subsidiary 2,000 Customer accounts placed in subsidiary 2,320 Placement of cash in subsidiary 399 Investment in subsidiary 1,417,043 Included in Investments in subsidiary in Separate Statement of Financial Position GEL 7,023 thousand relates to investment in JSC TBC Insurance.
The income and expense items for TBC Bank Group PLC with JSC TBC Bank except from key management compensation for the year 2016 were as follows: In thousands of GEL 2016 Interest income 1,149 Interest expense 32 Fee and commission expense 1 As of 31 December 2015, the Groups outstanding balances with related parties were as follows: Key Significant management In thousands of GEL Note shareholders personnel Gross amount of loans and advances to customers contractual interest rate: 7.320% 3,179 1,963 Impairment provisions for loans and advances to customers 45 7 Derivative financial liability 41 2,303 Due to credit institutions contractual interest rate: 5.211.3% 63,810 Customer accounts contractual interest rate: 07.5% 8,924 10,253 Subordinated debt contractual interest rate: 12.6% 132,530 The Groups income and expense items with related parties except from key management compensation for the year 2015 were as follows: Key Significant management In thousands of GEL Note shareholders personnel Interest income 438 139 Interest expense 20,747 537 Gains less losses from trading in foreign currencies 139 40 Foreign exchange translation gains less losses 1,160 28 Fee and commission income 12 16 Fee and commission expense 726 Administrative and other operating expenses excluding staff costs 48 288 Net loss on derivative financial instruments 41 575 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 253 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 DECEMBER 2017 44 Related Party Transactions continued As of 31 December 2015, other rights and obligations with related parties were as follows: Key Significant management In thousands of GEL shareholders personnel Amounts advanced to related parties during the year 1,684 2,972 Amounts repaid by related parties during the year 5,486 2,492 The compensation of the TBCG Board of Directors and the Banks Management Board is presented below: 2017 2016 2015 Accrued Accrued Accrued In thousands of GEL Expense liability Expense liability Expense liability Salaries and bonuses 13,339 12,323 9,939 867 Cash settled bonuses related to share-based compensation 3,905 9,772 7,336 10,715 4,748 5,254 Equity-settled share-based compensation 8,469 9,923 6,864 Total 25,713 9,772 29,582 10,715 21,551 6,121 Included in salaries and bonuses for 2017, GEL 2,326 thousand 2016: GEL 619 thousand relates to compensation for directors of TBCG paid by TBC Bank Group PLC.
Endnotes 1 A full list of related undertakings and the country of incorporation is set out below.
Company Name Country of incorporation JSC TBC Bank 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia United Financial Corporation JSC 154 Agmashenebeli Avenue, 0112, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC Capital LLC 11 Chavchavadze Avenue, 0179, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC Leasing JSC 8 Bulachauri Street, 0160, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC Kredit LLC 71-77, 28 May Street, AZ1010, Baku, Azerbaijan Banking System Service Company LLC 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC Pay LLC 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia Real Estate Management Fund JSC 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia TBC Invest LLC 7 Jabonitsky street, 52520, Tel Aviv, Israel Mali LLC 23 Chkheidze Street, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia JSC TBC Insurance 24B, Al.
Kazbegi Avenue, 0160, Tbilisi, Georgia UFC International Ltd HARNEYS FIDUCIARY, Craigmuir Chambers, PO Box 71, Road Town, Tortola VG1110, British Virgin Islands TBC Capital B. V 202 Oudegracht, 1811, CR Alkmaar Netherlands TBC Invest International Ltd 7 Marjanishvili Street, 0102, Tbilisi, Georgia University Development Fund 1 Chavchavadze Avenue, 0128, Tbilisi, Georgia Ltd Georgian Mill Company 2 Abashidze street, 0179, Tbilisi Georgia JSC CreditInfo Georgia 2 Tarkhnishvili street, 0179, Tbilisi, Georgia LLC Online Tickets 3 Irakli Abashidze street, 0179, Tbilisi, Georgia 254 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017
