BAE Systems 142 Annual Report 2017 Group accounts Preparation Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of BAE Systems plc have been prepared on a going concern basis, as discussed in the Directors report onpage 81, and in accordance with EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the Companies Act 2006 applicable tocompanies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and, unless stated otherwise, rounded to the nearest million.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and other relevant financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date, with the resulting exchange differences recognised in the income statement.
Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in the relevant notes.
These policies have been applied consistently to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The directors believe that the consolidated financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates, and provide a true and fair view of the Groups financial performance and position.
Critical accounting policies Certain of the Groups significant accounting policies are considered by the directors to be critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The critical accounting policies are listed below and explained in more detail in the relevant notes to the Group accounts: Critical accounting policy Description Notes Revenue and profit recognition The majority of long-term contracts are accounted for under IAS 11, Construction Contracts.
1 Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised when performance milestones have been completed.
Profit is recognised progressively as risks have been mitigated or retired.
The ultimate profitability of long-term contracts is based on estimates of revenue and costs, including allowances for technical and other risks, which are reliant on the knowledge and experience of the Groups project managers, engineers, and finance and commercial professionals.
Material changes in these estimates could affect the profitability of individual contracts.
Revenue and cost estimates are reviewed and updated at least quarterly, and more frequently as determined by events or circumstances.
Carrying value of goodwill Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less 8 accumulated impairment losses.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to Cash-Generating Units on a consistent basis.
The impairment review calculations require the use of estimates of the future profitability and cash-generating ability of the acquired businesses based on the Groups five-year Integrated Business Planand the pre-tax discount rate usedin discounting these projected cash flows.
Deferred tax asset on retirement The Group has recognised a deferred tax asset inrespect of the deficits inits pension 14 benefitobligations retirement schemes.
It is managements judgement that the Group will generate sufficient taxable profits torecover the net deferred tax asset recognised.
This judgement requires the use of estimates of future taxable profitsbased on the Groups Integrated Business Plan.
Tax provisions Provision is made for known issues based on managements interpretation of country- 16 specific legislation and the likely outcome of negotiations or litigation.
The Groups approach is to consider each uncertain tax position separately.
Where management considers it is probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax authority, aprovision is recognised.
The position is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Provisions are measured using managements best estimate of the most likely amount, being the single most likely amount in a range of possible outcomes.
The Group discloses any significant uncertainties in relation to tax matters to the relevant tax authority.
The resolution of tax positions taken by the Group can take a considerable period of time to conclude and, in some cases, it is difficult to predict the outcome.
Valuation of retirement benefit obligations Defined benefit pension scheme accounting valuations are prepared by independent 21 actuaries.
The liabilities of the pension schemes are valued based on a number of actuarial assumptions.
For each of the actuarial assumptions used there is a range of possible values and management estimates the point within that range that most appropriately reflects theGroups circumstances.
Small changes in these assumptions can have a significant impact on the size of the deficit.
Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 143 Preparation continued Judgements made in applying accounting policies In the course of preparing the financial statements, no judgements have been made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, other than those involving estimates, that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Sources of estimation uncertainty The application of the Groups accounting policies requires the use of estimates.
In the event that these estimates prove to be incorrect, there maybe an adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
The significant estimates in relation to the Groups critical accounting policies are set out above.
The only significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities during 2018 relates to the determination of the discount rate and inflation assumptions underpinning the valuation of the liabilities oftheGroups defined benefit pension schemes.
A description of the discount rate and inflation assumptions, together with sensitivity analysis, issetout in note 21 to the Group accounts.
Changes in accounting policies IFRS 9, Financial Instruments IFRS 9 is effective from 1 January 2018.
The standard, replacing the requirements ofIAS39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, introduces new requirements for recognition, classification and measurement, a new impairment model for financial assets based on expected credit losses, and simplified hedge accounting.
Any changes to the classification and measurement of financial instruments are applied retrospectively by adjusting opening retained earnings at1 January 2018.
There is no requirement to restate comparatives for prior periods.
The Group has determined that there is no adjustment to retained earnings on transition to IFRS 9.
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 is effective from 1 January 2018.
The standard requires the identification of performance obligations in contracts with customers and allocation of the total contractual value to each of the performance obligations identified.
Revenue isrecognised as each performance obligation is satisfied either at a point in time or over time.
The standard will replace IAS 11, Construction Contracts, IAS 18, Revenue, and all other existing revenue accounting requirements within IFRS.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 on BAE Systems is set out in note 34.
IFRS 16, Leases IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019.
The standard, which replaces IAS 17, Leases, was EU endorsed in October 2017.
Whilst lessor accounting is similar to IAS 17, lessee accounting is significantly different.
Under IFRS 16, the Group will recognise within the balance sheet a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for future lease payments in respect of all leases unless the underlying assets are of low value or the lease term is 12 months or less.
Within the income statement, rental expense on the impacted leases will be replaced with depreciation on the right-of-use asset and interest expense on the lease liability.
As set out in note 32, BAE Systems has operating lease commitments totalling 1.6bn at 31 December 2017 and, therefore, IFRS 16 will have a material impact on the Group.
The implications of the standard are currently under review and the Group has not yet determined which transition option will be applied.
As the impact of transition is dependent on the option chosen, the Group is unable to quantify the effect at this time.
Consolidation The financial statements of the Group consolidate the results of the Company and its subsidiary entities, and include its share of its joint ventures results accounted for under the equity method.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
The Group controls a subsidiary when it is exposed, or has the rights, to variable returns from itsinvolvement with the subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method where the Consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of their profits andlosses, and the Consolidated balance sheet includes its share of their net assets within equity accounted investments.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and equity accounted investments are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The income statements of such entities are translated at average rates of exchange during the year.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
Translation differences that arose before the transition date to IFRS 1 January 2004 are presented in equity, but not as a separate component.
When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative exchange differences recognised in equity since 1 January 2004 are recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on sale.
