Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Relations with shareholders 75 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS COMMUNICATING WITH THE INVESTOR COMMUNICATION 2017 ANNUAL REPORT INVESTMENT COMMUNITY CHANNELS AND 2018 AGM Given the importance placed by the Company The Board is responsible for ensuring This audited 2017 Annual Report will in communicating with our investors, we seek that a consistent and open dialogue with be made available to shareholders and all to maintain a regular and open dialogue with shareholders is maintained, with the Chief results are posted on the Companys website, current equity shareholders, potential equity Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and as are presentations made in respect of the investors, debt investors and sell side and Head of Investor Relations being the Companys companys financial results.
credit analysts through a comprehensive principal representatives with the investment Shareholders are welcome at the Companys investor relations programme.
Furthermore, the Chairman, AGM where they will have an opportunity to Andrew Sukawaty, and Senior Independent This programme is based around investor and meet the Board.
The notice of the AGM is sent Director, Dr Abe Peled, are available to analyst presentations by senior management, to all shareholders at least 20 working days shareholders if they have concerns which covering the full year and interim results in before the meeting.
The Chairmen of the cannot be raised through the normal channels person, and quarterly results announcements Audit and the Remuneration Committees, or if such concerns have not been resolved.
by webcast and conference call.
The shareholder together with as many Directors as possible, communication programme incorporates the In total, senior management participated will attend the 2018 AGM and be available AGM, investor roadshow meetings, investor in over 500 meetings or conference calls to answer shareholders questions.
Voting on conference participation as well as presentations with buy side and sell side institutions in all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll.
to analysts and investment banks equity sales 2017, both in the equity and debt markets, The proxy votes cast, including details of teams.
Management participated in meetings including existing shareholders and votes withheld, are disclosed on our website with investment communities in the UK, potential shareholders.
and announced to the UK Listing Authority the U. S. and in Europe in 2017.
The Board obtains feedback from senior through a Regulatory Information Service The key objective of the Companys investor management as well as from its joint immediately after the meeting.
Facilities communication programme is to ensure that corporate brokers, J. P. Morgan Cazenove are provided for shareholders to vote the investment community continues to have and Credit Suisse, and financial advisors, electronically either through Electronic a comprehensive and clear understanding of Oakley Advisory, on the views of institutional Proxy Voting or through CREST.
the various dynamics and elements relating to investors on a non-attributed and attributed Inmarsats business, market environment, strategy, basis.
As a matter of routine, the Board receives Details of our results announcements operational performance and future outlook.
regular reports on issues relating to share price for 2018 are shown below: and trading activity, and details of movements The Board is aware that institutional 2 May 2018 in institutional investor shareholdings.
The shareholders and bondholders may be in more AGM and Q1 2018 results Board is also regularly provided with current regular contact with the Company than other analyst opinions and forecasts.
2 August 2018 shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure Interim results for the half year to that any price-sensitive information is released 30 June 2018 to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with the 8 November 2018 Financial Conduct Authority requirements.
Q3 2018 results These dates are provisional and may change 500 MEETINGS OR CONFERENCE CALLS WITH ANALYSTS AND INSTITUTIONS IN 2017
