The companys internal control over financial reporting includes The audit committee evaluates the performance of the auditors each policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records year.
The audit fees payable to Ernst& Young are reviewed by the that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and committee in the context of other global companies for cost dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that effectiveness.
The committee keeps under review the scope and transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of results of audit work and the independence and objectivity of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS and that receipts and auditors.
External regulation and BP policy requires the auditors to expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations rotate their lead audit partner every five years.
See Financial of management and the directors of BP: and provide reasonable statements Note 34 and Audit committee report on page 82 for assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized details of fees for services provided by auditors.
acquisition, use or disposition of BPs assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements.
BPs internal control over Directors report information financial reporting as of 31December 2017 has been audited by This section of BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 forms part of, Ernst& Young, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on page 124 of BP Annual Report and and includes certain disclosures which are required by law to be Form 20-F 2017. included in, the Directors report.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting Indemnity provisions In accordance with BPs Articles of Association, on appointment each There were no changes in the groups internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by the Form 20-F director is granted an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal controls over financial reporting.
These indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and at the date of this report.
In respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified, the company maintained a Principal accountants fees and directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout 2017.
During the year, a review of the terms and scope of the policy was services undertaken.
The policy was renewed during 2017 and continued into The audit committee has established policies and procedures for the 2018.
Although their defence costs may be met, neither the engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm, companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event that Ernst& Young LLP, to render audit and certain assurance services.
The the director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
policies provide for pre-approval by the audit committee of specifically Certain subsidiaries are trustees of the groups pension schemes.
defined audit, audit-related, non-audit and other services that are not Each director of these subsidiariesis granted an indemnity from the prohibited by regulatory or other professional requirements.
Ernst& company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of such a Young are engaged for these services when its expertise and subsidiarys activities as a trustee of the pension scheme, to the experience of BP are important.
Most of this work is of an audit extent permitted by law.
These indemnities were in force throughout nature.
The policy has been updated such that non-audit tax services the financial year and at the date of this report.
provided by the audit firm from 2017 onwards are prohibited.
Financial risk management objectives and policies Under the policy, pre-approval is given for specific services within the following categories: advice on accounting, auditing and financial The disclosures in relation to financial risk management objectives reporting matters: internal accounting and risk management control and policies, including the policy for hedging, are included in How we reviews excluding any services relating to information systems manage risk on page 55, Liquidity and capital resources on page 251 design and implementation : non-statutory audit: project assurance and Financial statements Notes 27 and 28. and advice on business and accounting process improvement Exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and excluding any services relating to information systems design and implementation relating to BPs financial statements or accounting cash flow risk records : due diligence in connection with acquisitions, disposals and The disclosures in relation to exposure to price risk, credit risk, joint arrangements excluding valuation or involvement in liquidity risk and cash flow risk are included in Financial statements prospective financial information : provision of, or access to, Ernst& Note 27.
Young publications, workshops, seminars and other training materials: provision of reports from data gathered on non-financial policies and Important events since the end of the financial year information: provision of the independent third party audit in Disclosures of the particulars of the important events affecting BP accordance with US Generally Accepted Government Auditing which have occurred since the end of the financial year are included in Standards, over the companys Conflict Minerals Report - where such the Strategic report as well as in other places in the Directors report.
a report is required under the SEC rule Conflict Minerals, issued in accordance with Section 1502 of the Dodd Frank Act: and assistance Likely future developments in the business with understanding non-financial regulatory requirements.
BP An indication of the likely future developments of the business is operates a two-tier system for audit and non-audit services.
For audit included in the Strategic report.
related services, the audit committee has a pre-approved aggregate level, within which specific work may be approved by management.
Research and development Non-audit services, are pre-approved for management to authorize An indication of the activities of the company in the field of research per individual engagement, but above a defined level must be and development is included in Innovation in BP on page 44. approved by the chairman of the audit committee or the full committee.
In response to the revised regulatory guidelines of the UK Branches Financial Reporting Council, the audit committee reviewed and As a global group our interests and activities are held or operated updated its policies with effect from 1 January 2017.
The defined through subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements or associates maximum level for pre-approval has been reduced in line with FRC established in and subject to the laws and regulations of many guidance on non-trivial engagements.
The audit committee has different jurisdictions.
delegated to the chairman of the audit committee authority to approve permitted services provided that the chairman reports any Employees decisions to the committee at its next scheduled meeting.
Any The disclosures concerning policies in relation to the employment of proposed service not included in the approved service list must be disabled persons and employee involvement are included in approved in advance by the audit committee chairman and reported Sustainability Our people on page 53. to the committee, or approved by the full audit committee in advance of commencement of the engagement.
276 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary
