temporary halt in the trading of that companys shares in the order Share prices and listings book to allow the market to re-establish equilibrium.
Dealings in ordinary shares may also take place between an investor and a Markets and market prices market maker, via a member firm, outside the electronic order book.
The primary market for BPs ordinary shares is the London Stock In the US, BPs securities are traded on the New York Stock Exchange Exchange LSE.
BPs ordinary shares are a constituent element of the NYSE in the form of ADSs, for which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
BPs ordinary shares are the depositary the Depositary and transfer agent.
The Depositarys also traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany.
principal office is 4 New York Plaza, Floor 12, New York, NY, 10004, Trading of BPs shares on the LSE is primarily through the use of the US.
Each ADS represents six ordinary shares.
ADSs are listed on the Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS, introduced in 1997 NYSE.
ADSs are evidenced by American depositary receipts ADRs, for the largest companies in terms of market capitalization whose which may be issued in either certificated or book entry form.
primary listing is the LSE.
Under SETS, buy and sell orders at specific The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the highest prices may be sent electronically to the exchange by any firm that is a and lowest market prices for BPs ordinary shares and ADSs for the member of the LSE, on behalf of a client or on behalf of itself acting periods shown.
These are derived from the highest and lowest intraas a principal.
The orders are then anonymously displayed in the order day sales prices as reported on the LSE and NYSE, respectively.
When there is a match on a buy and a sell order, the trade is executed and automatically reported to the LSE.
Market prices for the ordinary shares on the LSE and in after-hours not be representative of the number of beneficial holders of their trading off the LSE, in each case while the NYSE is open, and the respective country of residence.
market prices for ADSs on the NYSE, are closely related due to arbitrage among the various markets, although differences may exist Dividends from time to time.
BPs current policy is to pay interim dividends on a quarterly basis on On 8March 2018, 913,607,017.5 ADSs equivalent to approximately its ordinary shares.
5,481,642,105 ordinary shares or some 27.50% of the total issued Its policy is also to announce dividends for ordinary shares in US share capital, excluding shares held in treasury were outstanding and dollars and state an equivalent sterling dividend.
Dividends on BP were held by approximately 84,659 ADS holders.
Of these, about ordinary shares will be paid in sterling and on BP ADSs in US dollars.
83,686 had registered addresses in the US at that date.
One of the The rate of exchange used to determine the sterling amount registered holders of ADSs represents some 1,020,454 underlying equivalent is the average of the market exchange rates in London holders.
over the four business days prior to the sterling equivalent On 8March 2018 there were approximately 242,521 ordinary announcement date.
The directors may choose to declare dividends shareholders.
Of these shareholders, around 1,575 had registered in any currency provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is addresses in the US and held a total of some 4,189,051 ordinary not the companys intention to change its current policy of shares.
announcing dividends on ordinary shares in US dollars.
Since a number of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by Information regarding dividends announced and paid by the company brokers and other nominees, the number of holders in the US may on ordinary shares and preference shares is provided in Financial statements Note 8.
280 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary
