C o n c e p P t r t o o j o e c p t e e r a d t i o o p n e a r l a 3 t i o 5 04 Strategic Report | The life cycle of a satellite Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 THE LIFE CYCLE OF A SATELLITE Harnessing innovation and technology at every stage of the journey, from design to launch and beyond 10km per second The rocket vehicle has to achieve whats called burn-out velocity of 10km s 22,300mph Build Launch In-orbit Planning Design Manufacture Travel to testing and concept development and testing final orbit The spacecraft bus The combined The build phase The spacecraft travels the main body design development is approx.
Integration and before reaching its payload the section testing is six months.
that provides comms for the customers Many teams are is specific for each involved in the design mission so development and manufacture of time can vary.
Thats hundreds of people for each project.
Global Xpress investment $2bn n y a e l a l i r f e s s p a n 1 5 2 0 y e a r s Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements P r o j e c t e d o p e r a t i o Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | The life cycle of a satellite 05 Operates in geostationary orbit at 35,786km Deorbiting A spacecraft is raised to graveyard orbit, a circular orbit that is higher than operational geostationary orbit Kilometres travelled Fuel carried for 1,500,000,000 station-keeping Over 15 years, throughout lifespan the spacecraft will travel around the earth for a total 200kg of 1.5 billion km roughly the same as 1,951 round trips from the Earth Average number to the Moon!
of manoeuvres each year I-5 satellite 1,460 Operate & lease satellite capacity End of life & future planning Fuel carried Positioning Space debris Disposal The spacecraft typically The spacecrafts position is In collaboration with several We monitor the spacecraft carries over 2,000kg 2 tonnes constantly monitored 24 7 agencies around the globe, long enough to confirm it of propellant into space from our Satellite Control Centre.
we continually monitor has reached the graveyard most of this is used to raise When a manoeuvre is required, close approach of objects orbit and then passivate.
the orbit after separating from thrusters accelerate the satellite near our fleet.
On average, This means we check the the launch vehicle, leaving to the required position.
The average we have to take avoiding satellite has no energy only 200kg for station-keeping manoeuvre uses 10g of propellant action 20 times per year.
left and this typically for the remaining lifespan.
Sensors Typically a spacecraft has sensors to detect the sun, the stars, the earth typically older spacecraft only, and the spacecrafts own rotation.
It takes roughly a tenth of a second for the signal to propagate from the satellite to the ground.
