98 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and the Group and financial statements in accordance with the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable law and regulations.
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the consolidation taken as a whole: and Directors are required to prepare the Group financial the Strategic report includes a fair review of the statements in accordance with International Financial development and performance of the business and the Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description company financial statements on the same basis.
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent position and performance, business model and strategy.
company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial of this report confirms that: statements, the Directors are required to: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit select suitable accounting policies and then apply information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
them consistently the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself relevant and reliable aware of any relevant audit information and to establish state whether they have been prepared in accordance with that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
IFRS as adopted by the EU assess the Group and parent Companys ability to continue Other information as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related Likely future developments in the Company and its to going concern: and subsidiaries are contained in the Strategic report on pages use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either 1 to 59. intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Information on financial instruments including financial risk management objectives and policies including the policy for The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting hedging the exposure of the Company and its subsidiaries to records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk can be companys transactions and disclose with reasonable found in the Risk Review on pages 32 to 38. accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company, and enable them to ensure that the financial Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is Jason Elphick necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements Group General Counsel and Company Secretary that are free from material misstatement, whether due to 15 March 2018 fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
