Glossary NGLs Abbreviations Natural gas liquids.
ADR PSA American depositary receipt.
ADS PTA American depositary share.
Barrel bbl RC 159 litres, 42 US gallons.
bcf d SEC Billion cubic feet per day.
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
bcfe Billion cubic feet equivalent.
Definitions Unless the context indicates otherwise, the definitions for the bcma following glossary terms are given below.
Billion cubic metres per annum.
Non-GAAP measures are sometimes referred to as alternative b d performance measures.
Adjusted effective tax rate ETR boe d Non-GAAP measure.
The adjusted ETR is calculated by dividing Barrels of oil equivalent per day.
taxation on an underlying replacement cost RC basis excluding the impact of reductions in the rate of the UK North Sea supplementary DoJ charge in 2016 and 2015 by underlying RC profit or loss before tax.
Taxation on an underlying RC basis is taxation on a RC basis for the GAAP period adjusted for taxation on non-operating items and fair value Generally accepted accounting practice.
Information on underlying RC profit or loss is provided below.
BP believes it is helpful to disclose the adjusted ETR Gas because this measure may help investors to understand and evaluate, Natural gas.
in the same manner as management, the underlying trends in BPs operational performance on a comparable basis, period on period.
The GHG nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is the ETR on profit or Greenhouse gas.
A reconciliation to GAAP information is provided GWh on page 294.
We are unable to present reconciliations of forward-looking HSSE information for adjusted ETR to ETR on profit or loss for the period, Health, safety, security and environment.
because without unreasonable efforts, we are unable to forecast accurately certain adjusting items required to present a meaningful IFRS comparable GAAP forward-looking financial measure.
These items International Financial Reporting Standards.
include the taxation on inventory holding gains and losses, nonoperating items and fair value accounting effects, that are difficult to KPIs predict in advance in order to include in a GAAP estimate.
Associate LNG An entity over which the group has significant influence and that is Liquefied natural gas.
neither a subsidiary nor a joint arrangement of the group.
Significant LPG influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating Liquefied petroleum gas.
policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
mb d Thousand barrels per day.
Brent A trading classification for North Sea crude oil that serves as a major mboe d benchmark price for purchases of oil worldwide.
Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Capital expenditure mmb d Total cash capital expenditure as stated in the group cash flow Million barrels per day.
mmboe d Consolidation adjustment UPII Million barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Unrealized profit in inventory arising on inter-segment transactions.
mmBtu Commodity trading contracts Million British thermal units.
BPs Upstream and Downstream segments both participate in regional and global commodity trading markets in order to manage, mmcf d Million cubic feet per day.
transact and hedge the crude oil, refined products and natural gas that the group either produces or consumes in its manufacturing mmte operations.
These physical trading activities, together with associated Million tonnes.
incremental trading opportunities, are discussed in Upstream on page 26 and in Downstream on page 32.
The range of contracts the group MteCO 2 enters into in its commodity trading operations is described below.
Using these contracts, in combination with rights to access storage MW and transportation capacity, allows the group to access advantageous Megawatt.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 289 pricing differences between locations, time periods and arbitrage Divestment proceeds between markets.
Disposal proceeds as per the group cash flow statement.
Exchange-traded commodity derivatives Dividend yield Contracts that are typically in the form of futures and options traded Sum of the four quarterly dividends announced in respect of the year on a recognized exchange, such as Nymex and ICE.
Such contracts as a percentage of the year-end share price on the respective are traded in standard specifications for the main marker crude oils, exchange.
such as Brent and West Texas Intermediate: the main product grades, Effective tax rate ETR on replacement cost RC profit or loss such as gasoline and gasoil: and for natural gas and power.
The ETR on RC profit or loss is calculated by losses, otherwise referred to as variation margin, are generally settled dividing taxation on a RC basis by RC profit or loss before tax.
on a daily basis with the relevant exchange.
These contracts are used Information on RC profit or loss is provided below.
BP believes it is for the trading and risk management of crude oil, refined products, helpful to disclose the ETR on RC profit or loss because this measure and natural gas and power.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses excludes the impact of price changes on the replacement of on exchange-traded commodity derivatives are included in sales and inventories and allows for more meaningful comparisons between other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is Over-the-counter contracts the ETR on profit or loss for the period.
A reconciliation to GAAP Contracts that are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and information is provided on page 294. options.
Some of these contracts are traded bilaterally between Fair value accounting effects counterparties or through brokers, others may be cleared by a central Non-GAAP adjustments to IFRS profit or loss.
We use derivative clearing counterparty.
These contracts can be used both for trading instruments to manage the economic exposure relating to inventories and risk management activities.
Realized and unrealized gains and above normal operating requirements of crude oil, natural gas and losses on over-the-counter OTC contracts are included in sales and petroleum products.
Under IFRS, these inventories are recorded at other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
Many grades of historical cost.
The related derivative instruments, however, are crude oil bought and sold use standard contracts including US required to be recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized domestic light sweet crude oil, commonly referred to as West Texas in the income statement.
This is because hedge accounting is either Intermediate, and a standard NorthSea crude blendBrent, Forties, not permitted or not followed, principally due to the impracticality of Oseberg and Ekofisk BFOE.
Forward contracts are used in  requirements.
Therefore, measurement connection with the purchase of crude oil supplies for refineries, differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses occur.
Gains products for marketing and sales of the groups oil production and and losses on these inventories are not recognized until the refined products.
The contracts typically contain standard delivery and commodity is sold in a subsequent accounting period.
These transactions call for physical delivery of oil losses on the related derivative commodity contracts are recognized with consequent operational and price risk.
However, various means in the income statement, from the time the derivative commodity exist and are used from time to time, to settle obligations under the contract is entered into, on a fair value basis using forward prices contracts in cash rather than through physical delivery.
Because the consistent with the contract maturity.
physically settled transactions are delivered by cargo, the BFOE contract additionally specifies a standard volume and tolerance.
BP enters into physical commodity contracts to meet certain business requirements, such as the purchase of crude for a refinery Gas and power OTC markets are highly developed in North America or the sale of BPs gas production.
Under IFRS these contracts are and the UK, where commodities can be bought and sold for delivery treated as derivatives and are required to be fair valued when they are in future periods.
These contracts are negotiated between two parties managed as part of a larger portfolio of similar transactions.
In to purchase and sell gas and power at a specified price, with delivery addition, derivative instruments are used to manage the price risk and settlement at a future date.
Typically, the contracts specify associated with certain future natural gas sales.
Gains and losses delivery terms for the underlying commodity.
Some of these arising are recognized in the income statement from the time the transactions are not settled physically as they can be achieved by derivative commodity contract is entered into.
transacting offsetting sale or purchase contracts for the same location and delivery period that are offset during the scheduling of IFRS require that inventory held for trading is recorded at its fair value delivery or dispatch.
The contracts contain standard terms such as using period-end spot prices, whereas any related derivative delivery point, pricing mechanism, settlement terms and specification commodity instruments are required to be recorded at values based of the commodity.
Typically, volume, price and term e. g. daily, on forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Depending monthly and balance of month are the main variable contract terms.
on market conditions, these forward prices can be either higher or lower than spot prices, resulting in measurement differences.
Swaps are often contractual obligations to exchange cash flows between two parties.
A typical swap transaction usually references a BP enters into contracts for pipelines and storage capacity, oil and gas floating price and a fixed price with the net difference of the cash processing and liquefied natural gas LNG that, under IFRS, are flows being settled.
Options give the holder the right, but not the recorded on an accruals basis.
These contracts are risk-managed obligation, to buy or sell crude, oil products, natural gas or power at a using a variety of derivative instruments that are fair valued under specified price on or before a specific future date.
This results in measurement differences in relation to these derivative financial instruments are settled at expiry.
Typically, recognition of gains and losses.
netting agreements are used to limit credit exposure and support The way BP manages the economic exposures described above, and liquidity.
measures performance internally, differs from the way these activities are measured under IFRS.
BP calculates this difference for Spot and term contracts consolidated entities by comparing the IFRS result with Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at the managements internal measure of performance.
Under market price prevailing on or around the delivery date when title to managements internal measure of performance the inventory and the inventory is taken.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or capacity contracts in question are valued based on fair value using sell a commodity at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though relevant forward prices prevailing at the end of the period.
The fair spot and term contracts may have a standard form, there is no values of certain derivative instruments used to risk manage certain offsetting mechanism in place.
These transactions result in physical LNG and oil and gas contracts and gas sales contracts, are deferred delivery with operational and price risk.
Spot and term contracts to match with the underlying exposure and the commodity contracts typically relate to purchases of crude for a refinery, products for for business requirements are accounted for on an accruals basis.
We marketing, or third-party natural gas, or sales of the groups oil believe that disclosing managements estimate of this difference production, oil products or gas production to third parties.
For provides useful information for investors because it enables investors accounting purposes, spot and term sales are included in sales and to see the economic effect of these activities as a whole.
A other operating revenues when title passes.
Similarly, spot and term reconciliation to GAAP information is provided on page 294. purchases are included in purchases for accounting purposes.
290 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Free cash flow LNG train Operating cash flow less net cash used in investing activities, as An LNG train is a processing facility used to liquefy and purify natural presented in the group cash flow statement.
gas in the formation of LNG.
Full dividend Major projects Full dividend is cash dividend plus cash equivalent value of scrip Have a BP net investment of at least $250million, or are considered dividend.
to be of strategic importance to BP or of a high degree of complexity.
Gearing Net debt and net debt ratio gearing See Net debt and net debt ratio definition.
Net debt is calculated as gross finance debt, as shown in the balance sheet, plus the fair value of associated Gross debt ratio derivative financial instruments that are used to hedge foreign Gross debt ratio is defined as the ratio of gross debt to the total of currency exchange and interest rate risks relating to finance debt, for gross debt plus shareholders' equity.
which hedge accounting is applied, less cash and cash equivalents.
The net debt ratio is defined as the ratio of net debt to the total of net Henry Hub debt plus total shareholders equity.
All components of equity are A distribution hub on the natural gas pipeline system in Erath, included in the denominator of the calculation.
BP believes these Louisiana, that lends its name to the pricing point for natural gas measures provide useful information to investors.
Net debt enables futures contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange and investors to see the economic effect of gross debt, related hedges the over-the-counter swaps traded on Intercontinental Exchange.
and cash and cash equivalents in total.
The net debt ratio enables Hydrocarbons investors to see how significant net debt is relative to equity from Liquids and natural gas.
Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at shareholders.
The derivatives are reported on the balance sheet 5.8billion cubic feet 1million barrels.
within the headings Derivative financial instruments.
See Financial statements Note 25 for information on gross debt, which is the Inorganic capital expenditure nearest equivalent measure to net debt on an IFRS basis.
A subset of capital expenditure and is a non-GAAP measure.
We are unable to present reconciliations of forward-looking Inorganic capital expenditure comprises consideration in business information for net debt ratio to gross debt ratio, because without combinations and certain other significant investments made by the group.
It is reported on a cash basis.
BP believes that this measure unreasonable efforts, we are unable to forecast accurately certain adjusting items required to present a meaningful comparable GAAP provides useful information as it allows investors to understand how forward-looking financial measure.
These items include fair value BPs management invests funds in projects which expand the groups asset liability of hedges related to finance debt and cash and cash activities through acquisition.
An analysis of organic capital equivalents, that are difficult to predict in advance in order to include expenditure by segment and region, and a reconciliation to GAAP information is provided on page 248. in a GAAP estimate.
Net generating capacity Inventory holding gains and losses The sum of the rated capacities of the assets turbines that have The difference between the cost of sales calculated using the entered into commercial operation, including BPs share of equityreplacement cost of inventory and the cost of sales calculated on the accounted entities.
The gross data is the equivalent capacity on a first-in first-out FIFO method after adjusting for any changes in provisions where the net realizable value of the inventory is lower gross-joint venture basis, which includes 100% of the capacity of equity-accounted entities where BP has partial ownership.
Under the FIFO method, which we use for IFRS reporting, the cost of inventory charged to the income statement is Non-operating items based on its historical cost of purchase or manufacture, rather than its Charges and credits are included in the financial statements that BP replacement cost.
In volatile energy markets, this can have a discloses separately because it considers such disclosures to be significant distorting effect on reported income.
The amounts meaningful and relevant to investors.
They are items that disclosed represent the difference between the charge to the income management considers not to be part of underlying business statement for inventory on a FIFO basis after adjusting for any operations and are disclosed in order to enable investors better to related movements in net realizable value provisions and the charge understand and evaluate the groups reported financial performance.
that would have arisen based on the replacement cost of inventory.
Non-operating items within equity-accounted earnings are reported For this purpose, the replacement cost of inventory is calculated net of incremental income tax reported by the equity-accounted using data from each operations production and manufacturing entity.
An analysis of non-operating items by segment and type is system, either on a monthly basis, or separately for each transaction shown on page 250. where the system allows this approach.
The amounts disclosed are not separately reflected in the financial statements as a gain or loss.
Operating cash flow No adjustment is made in respect of the cost of inventories held as Net cash provided by used in operating activities as stated in the part of a trading position and certain other temporary inventory group cash flow statement.
When used in the context of a segment positions.
See Replacement cost RC profit or loss definition below.
rather than the group, the terms refer to the segments share thereof.
Joint arrangement Operating cash flow excluding Gulf of Mexico oil spill payments An arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control.
It is calculated by excluding post-tax operating cash flows relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill as reported in Joint control Financial statements Note 2 from net cash provided by operating Contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement, which activities as reported in the group cash flow statement.
BP believes exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the net cash provided by operating activities excluding amounts related to unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
the Gulf of Mexico oil spill is a useful measure as it allows for more meaningful comparisons between reporting periods.
The nearest Joint operation A joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is net cash provided by operating activities.
Organic free cash flow is operating cash flow arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the excluding Gulf of Mexico oil spill payments less organic capital liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
Joint venture Operating cash margin Upstream A joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
Operating cash margin is operating cash flow divided by the applicable number of barrels of oil equivalent produced, at $52 bbl flat Liquids oil prices.
Expected operating cash margins are calculated over the Comprises crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
Upstream segment, it also includes bitumen.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 291 Operating management system OMS Realizations BPs OMS helps us manage risks in our operating activities by setting Realizations are the result of dividing revenue generated from out BPs principles for good operating practice.
It brings together BP hydrocarbon sales, excluding revenue generated from purchases requirements on health, safety, security, the environment, social made for resale and royalty volumes, by revenue generating responsibility and operational reliability, as well as related issues, hydrocarbon production volumes.
Revenue generating hydrocarbon such as maintenance, contractor relations and organizational learning, production reflects the BP share of production as adjusted for any into a common management system.
production which does not generate revenue.
Adjustments may include losses due to shrinkage, amounts consumed during Organic capital expenditure processing, and contractual or regulatory host committed volumes A subset of capital expenditure and is a non-GAAP measure.
For the Upstream segment, realizations include capital expenditure comprises capital expenditure less inorganic transfers between businesses.
BP believes that this measure provides useful information as it allows investors to understand how BPs Refining availability management invests funds in developing and maintaining the groups Represents Solomon Associates operational availability, which is assets.
An analysis of organic capital expenditure by segment and defined as the percentage of the year that a unit is available for region, and a reconciliation to GAAP information is provided on page processing after subtracting the annualized time lost due to 248. turnaround activity and all planned mechanical, process and regulatory downtime.
We are unable to present reconciliations of forward-looking information for organic capital expenditure to total cash capital Refining marker margin RMM expenditure, because without unreasonable efforts, we are unable to The average of regional indicator margins weighted for BPs crude forecast accurately the adjusting item, inorganic capital expenditure, refining capacity in each region.
Each regional marker margin is based that is difficult to predict in advance in order to derive the nearest on product yields and a marker crude oil deemed appropriate for the GAAP estimate.
The regional indicator margins may not be representative of the margins achieved by BP in any period because of BPs particular Organic sources of cash and organic uses of cash refinery configurations and crude and product slate.
Organic sources of cash is the sum of operating cash flow, excluding Gulf of Mexico oil spill payments, and proceeds Refining net cash margin per barrel of loan repayments.
Organic uses of cash is the sum of organic Refining net cash margin is defined by Solomon Associates as the net capital expenditure, dividends and share buybacks.
Organic sources margin achieved after subtracting cash operating expenses and of cash and organic uses of cash are referred to as organic cash adding any refinery revenue from other sources.
Net cash margin is flows which is also a non-GAAP measure.
The nearest equivalent expressed in US dollars per barrel of net refinery input.
measure on an IFRS basis for organic sources of cash is net cash Refinery utilization provided by operating activities and the nearest equivalent measures Refinery utilization is calculated as annual throughput thousands of on an IFRS basis for organic uses of cash are total cash capital barrels per day divided by crude distillation capacity.
expenditure, dividends paid to BP shareholders and net issue repurchase of shares.
Replacement cost RC profit or loss Reflects the replacement cost of inventories sold in the period and is Production-sharing agreement PSA Production-sharing arrived at by excluding inventory holding gains and losses from profit contract or loss.
RC profit or loss is the measure of profit or loss that is An arrangement through which an oil and gas company bears the required to be disclosed for each operating segment under IFRS.
risks and costs of exploration, development and production.
In return, RCprofit or loss for the group is a non-GAAP measure.
Management if exploration is successful, the oil company receives entitlement to believes this measure is useful to illustrate to investors the fact that variable physical volumes of hydrocarbons, representing recovery of crude oil and product prices can vary significantly from period to the costs incurred and a stipulated share of the production remaining period and that the impact on our reported result under IFRS can be after such cost recovery.
Inventory holding gains and losses vary from period to Readily marketable inventory RMI period due to changes in prices as well as changes in underlying RMI is inventory held and price risk-managed by our integrated supply inventory levels.
In order for investors to understand the operating and trading function IST which could be sold to generate funds if performance of the group excluding the impact of price changes on required.
It comprises oil and oil products for which liquid markets are the replacement of inventories, and to make comparisons of available and excludes inventory which is required to meet operational operating performance between reporting periods, BPs management requirements and other inventory which is not price risk-managed.
believes it is helpful to disclose this measure.
The nearest equivalent RMI is reported at fair value.
Inventory held by the Downstream fuels measure on an IFRS basis is profit or loss attributable to BP business for the purpose of sales and marketing, and all inventories shareholders.
A reconciliation to relating to the lubricants and petrochemicals businesses, are not GAAP information is provided on page 248. included in RMI.
BP believes that disclosing the amounts of RMI and RC profit or loss per share paid-up RMI is useful to investors as it enables them to better Non-GAAP measure.
Earnings per share is defined in Financial understand and evaluate the groups inventories and liquidity position statements Note 9.
RC profit or loss per share is calculated using by enabling them to see the level of discretionary inventory held by the same denominator.
The numerator used is RC profit or loss IST and to see builds or releases of liquid trading inventory.
attributable to BP shareholders rather than profit or loss attributable Paid-up RMI excludes RMI which has not yet been paid for.
BP believes it is helpful to disclose the RC profit inventory that is held in storage, a first-in first-out FIFO approach is or loss per share because this measure excludes the impact of price used to determine whether inventory has been paid for or not.
Unpaid changes on the replacement of inventories and allows for more RMI is RMI which has not yet been paid for by BP.
RMI, RMI at fair meaningful comparisons between reporting periods.
The nearest value, Paid-up RMI and Unpaid RMI are non-GAAP measures.
A equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is basic earnings per share reconciliation of total inventory as reported on the group balance based on profit or loss for the period attributable to BP shareholders.
sheet to paid-up RMI is provided on page 296.
A reconciliation to GAAP information is provided on page 294.
Reserves replacement ratio The extent to which production is replaced by proved reserves additions.
This ratio is expressed in oil equivalent terms and includes changes resulting from revisions to previous estimates, improved recovery, and extensions and discoveries.
292 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Return on average capital employed The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for the group is Non-GAAP measure.
Return on average capital employed ROACE is profit or loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders.
The nearest underlying replacement cost profit, after adding back non-controlling equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for segments is RC profit or loss interest and interest expense net of notional tax at an assumed 35%, before interest and taxation.
Underlying profit in the group chief divided by average capital employed, excluding cash and cash executives letter on page 8 refers to full year underlying RC profit for equivalents and goodwill.
Interest expense is finance costs excluding the group.
A reconciliation to GAAP information is provided on page the unwinding of the discount on provisions and other payables.
BP 248. believes it is helpful to disclose the ROACE because this measure Underlying RC profit or loss per share gives an indication of the companys capital efficiency.
Earnings per share is defined Financial GAAP measures of the numerator and denominator are profit or loss statements Note 9.
Underlying RC profit or loss per share is for the period attributable to BP shareholders and average capital calculated using the same denominator.
The numerator used is employed respectively.
The reconciliation of the numerator and underlying RC profit or loss attributable to BP shareholders rather denominator is provided on page 295. than profit or loss attributable to BP shareholders.
BP believes it is We are unable to present forward-looking information of the nearest helpful to disclose the underlying RC profit or loss per share because GAAP measures of the numerator and denominator for ROACE, this measure may help investors to understand and evaluate, in the because without unreasonable efforts, we are unable to forecast same manner as management, the underlying trends in BPs accurately certain adjusting items required to calculate a meaningful operational performance on a comparable basis, period on period.
The comparable GAAP forward-looking financial measure.
These items nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis is basic earnings per include inventory holding gains or losses and interest net of tax, that share based on profit or loss for the period attributable to BP are difficult to predict in advance in order to include in a GAAP shareholders.
A reconciliation to GAAP information is provided on estimate.
Subsidiary Upstream operating efficiency An entity that is controlled by the BP group.
Control of an investee Upstream operating efficiency is calculated as production for BP exists when an investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns operated sites, excluding US Lower 48 and adjusted for certain items from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect including entitlement impacts in our production-sharing agreements those returns through its power over the investee.
divided by installed production capacity for BP operated sites, excluding US Lower 48.
Installed production capacity is the agreed Tier 1 process safety events rate achievable measured at the export end of the system when the Losses of primary containment from a process of greatest installed production system reservoir, wells, plant and export is fully consequence - causing harm to a member of the workforce, costly optimized and operated at full rate with no planned or unplanned damage to equipment or exceeding defined quantities.
represents reported incidents occurring within BPs operational HSSE reporting boundary.
That boundary includes BPs own operated Upstream plant reliability facilities and certain other locations or situations.
BP-operated Upstream plant reliability is calculated taking 100% less the ratio of total unplanned plant deferrals divided by installed Tight oil and gas production capacity.
Unplanned plant deferrals are associated with Natural oil and gas reservoirs locked in hard sandstone rocks with low the topside plant and where applicable the subsea equipment permeability, making the underground formation extremely tight.
Unplanned plant deferrals include UK National Balancing Point breakdowns, which does not include Gulf of Mexico weather related downtime.
A virtual trading location for sale, purchase and exchange of UK natural gas.
It is the pricing and delivery point for the Intercontinental Upstream unit production cost Exchange natural gas futures contract.
Upstream unit production cost is calculated as production cost divided by units of production.
Production cost does not include ad Unconventionals Resources found in geographic accumulations over a large area, that valorem and severance taxes.
Units of production are barrels for liquids and thousands of cubic feet for gas.
Amounts disclosed are for usually present additional challenges to development such as low permeability or high viscosity.
Examples include shale gas and oil, BP subsidiaries only and do not include BPs share of equitycoalbed methane, gas hydrates and natural bitumen deposits.
typically require specialized extraction technology such as hydraulic West Texas Intermediate WTI fracturing or steam injection.
A light sweet crude oil, priced at Cushing, Oklahoma, which serves as a benchmark price for purchases of oil in the US.
Underlying production Production after adjusting for divestments and entitlement impacts in Trade marks our production-sharing agreements.
2017 underlying production does not include the Abu Dhabi onshore concession renewal.
Trade marks of the BP group appear throughout this report.
They include: ACTIVE, ampm, Aral, ARCO, BP, BP Fleetmove, BPme, BP Underlying RC profit or loss Ultimate, Castrol, EDGE BIO-SYNTHETIC, PTAir Non-GAAP measure.
RC profit or loss after adjusting for nonTrade marks: operating items and fair value accounting effects.
See page 250 and 294 for additional information on the non-operating items and fair Amazon Web Services is a registered trade mark of Amazon value accounting effects that are used to arrive at underlying RC profit Technologies, Inc. or loss in order to enable a full understanding of the events and their Butamax is a registered trade mark of Butamax Advance Biofuels financial impact.
BP believes that underlying RC profit or loss is a LLC.
useful measure for investors because it is a measure closely tracked by management to evaluate BPs operating performance and to make DrillPlan is a registered trade mark of Schlumberger Technology financial, strategic and operating decisions and because it may help Corporation.
investors to understand and evaluate, in the same manner as M&S Simply Food is a registered trade mark of Marks& Spencer plc.
management, the underlying trends in BPs operational performance on a comparable basis, year on year, by adjusting for the effects of Microsoft Azure a registered trade mark of Microsoft Corporation.
these non-operating items and fair value accounting effects.
Nectar is a registered trade mark of Aimia US Inc. PAYBACK is a registered trade mark of PAYBACK GmbH.
Pick n Pay is a registered trade mark of Pick n Pay Stores Limited.
REWE to go is a registered trade mark of REWE.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 293
