During 2016, BlackRock, Inc. notified the company that its indirect shareholders.
A director may be removed by BP as provided for by interest in ordinary shares moved as follows: decreased below the applicable law and shall vacate office in certain circumstances as set previously disclosed threshold of 5% on 28April 2016: increased out in the Articles of Association.
In addition, the company may by above 5% on 9May 2016: decreased below 5% on 29July 2016: special resolution remove a director before the expiration of his her increased above 5% on 8August 2016: decreased below 5% on period of office and, subject to the Articles of Association, may by 4November 2016 and increased above 5% on 14November 2016. ordinary resolution appoint another person to be a director instead.
There is no requirement for a director to retire on reaching any age.
During 2017, BlackRock Inc. notified the company that its indirect interest in ordinary shares moved as follows: decreased below 5% on The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a director 9 February 2017: increased above 5% on 22 February 2017: voting in respect of any contract or arrangement in which the director decreased below 5% on 8 May 2017: increased above 5% on 15 May has a material interest other than by virtue of such directors interest 2017: increased above 5% on 14 August 2017: decreased below 5% in shares in the company.
However, in the absence of some other on 3 November 2017 and increased above 5% on 13 November 2017. material interest not indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a During 2018, BlackRock, Inc. notified the company that its indirect resolution concerning the following matters: interest in ordinary shares decreased below 5% on 12 February 2018.
The giving of security or indemnity with respect to any money lent As at 8March 2018, the total preference shares in issue comprised or obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of the only 0.42% of the companys total issued nominal share capital company or any of its subsidiaries.
excluding shares held in treasury, the rest being ordinary shares.
Any proposal in which the director is interested, concerning the Annual general meeting underwriting of company securities or debentures or the giving of any security to a third party for a debt or obligation of the company The 2018 AGM will be held on Monday 21May 2018 at 11.30am.
A or any of its subsidiaries.
separate notice convening the meeting is distributed to shareholders, which includes an explanation of the items of business to be Any proposal concerning any other company in which the director considered at the meeting.
is interested, directly or indirectly whether as an officer or shareholder or otherwise provided that the director and persons The board appointed Deloitte LLP as the company's new auditor with connected with such director are not the holder or holders of 1% effect from 29 March 2018 to fill the vacancy arising from Ernst & or more of the voting interest in the shares of such company.
Young LLP's resignation following completion of their audit of BPs 2017 financial statements.
At the 2018 AGM, the board will seek Any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of any shareholder approval for the appointment of Deloitte LLP as the insurance policy under which the director may benefit.
company's auditor until the conclusion of the next AGM at which the Any proposal concerning the giving to the director of any other company's accounts are laid before shareholders.
indemnity which is on substantially the same terms as indemnities given or to be given to all of the other directors or to the funding by Memorandum and Articles of the company of his expenditure on defending proceedings or the doing by the company of anything to enable the director to avoid Association incurring such expenditure where all other directors have been The following summarizes certain provisions of the companys given or are to be given substantially the same arrangements.
Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
Any proposal concerning an arrangement for the benefit of the This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the UK employees and directors or former employees and former directors Companies Act 2006 the Act and the companys Memorandum and of the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, including but Articles of Association.
For information on where investors can obtain without being limited to a retirement benefits scheme and an copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association see employees share scheme, which does not accord to any director Documents on display on page 287. any privilege or advantage not generally accorded to the employees The companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special or former employees to whom the arrangement relates.
resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
At the annual The Act requires a director of a company who is in any way interested general meeting AGM held on 17April 2008 shareholders voted to in a contract or proposed contract with the company to declare the adopt new Articles of Association, largely to take account of changes nature of the directors interest at a meeting of the directors of the in UK company law brought about by the Act.
The definition of interest includes the interests of the Articles of Association were approved by shareholders at the spouses, children, companies and trusts.
The Act also requires that a AGM held on 15April2010.
At the AGM held on 16April 2015 director must avoid a situation where a director has, or could have, a shareholders voted to adopt new Articles of Association to reflect direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with developments in practice and to provide clarification and additional the companys interests.
The Act allows directors of public companies flexibility.
New Articles of Association are being proposed at the AGM to authorize such conflicts where appropriate, if a companys Articles in 2018. of Association so permit.
BPs Articles of Association permit the authorization of such conflicts.
The directors may exercise all the Objects and purposes powers of the company to borrow money, except that the amount BP is a public company limited by shares, incorporated under the remaining undischarged of all moneys borrowed by the company shall name BP p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales with the not, without approval of the shareholders, exceed two times the registered number 102498.
The provisions regulating the operations amount paid up on the share capital plus the aggregate of the amount of the company, known as its objects, were historically stated in a of the capital and revenue reserves of the company.
Variation of the companys memorandum.
The Act abolished the need to have object borrowing power of the board may only be affected by amending the provisions and so at the AGM held on 15April 2010 shareholders Articles of Association.
approved the removal of its objects clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum that, by virtue of the Act, are treated Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined in the as forming part of the companys Articles of Association.
aggregate by resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of executive directors is determined by the remuneration committee.
Directors This committee is made up of non-executive directors only.
There is no requirement of share ownership for a directors qualification.
The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
The companys Articles of Association provide that directors may be appointed by the existing directors or by the shareholders in a general meeting.
Any person appointed by the directors will hold office only until the next general meeting, notice of which is first given after their appointment and will then be eligible for re-election by the 284 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary Dividend rights: other rights to share in company profits: behalf at any shareholders meeting, provided that a duly completed capitalcalls proxy form is received not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as If recommended by the directors of BP, BP shareholders may, by the directors may determine before the time of the meeting or resolution, declare dividends but no such dividend may be declared in adjourned meeting or, where the poll is to be taken after the date of excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors the meeting, not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the may also pay interim dividends without obtaining shareholder directors may determine before the time of the poll.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available Record holders of BP ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak and for distribution, as determined under IFRS and the Act.
Dividends on vote at any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the ordinary shares are payable only after payment of dividends on BP approved depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. of them as proxies preference shares.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years in respect of the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each from the date of declaration of such dividend shall be forfeited and such proxy may also appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of BP reverts to BP.
If the company exercises its right to forfeit shares and ADSs are entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the sells shares belonging to an untraced shareholder then any dividends depositary, who will vote the ordinary shares represented by their or other monies unclaimed in respect of those shares will be forfeited ADSs in accordance with their instructions.
after a period of two years.
Proxies may be delivered electronically.
The directors have the power to declare and pay dividends in any Corporations who are members of the company may appoint one or currency provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is not the more persons to act as their representative or representatives at any companys intention to change its current policy of paying dividends shareholders meeting provided that the company may require a in US dollars.
At the companys AGM held on 15April 2010, corporate representative to produce a certified copy of the resolution shareholders approved the introduction of a Scrip Dividend appointing them before they are permitted to exercise their powers.
Programme Scrip Programme and to include provisions in the Articles of Association to enable the company to operate the Scrip Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the proposing Programme.
The Scrip Programme was renewed at the companys and passing of resolutions, of which there are two types: ordinary or AGM held on 16April 2015 for a further three years.
Programme enables ordinary shareholders and BP ADS holders to An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority of elect to receive new fully paid ordinary shares or BP ADSs in the the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a case of BP ADS holders instead of cash.
The operation of the Scrip quorum.
A special resolution requires the affirmative vote of not less Programme is always subject to the directors decision to make the than three quarters of the persons voting at a meeting at which there scrip offer available in respect of any particular dividend.
Any AGM requires 21 clear days notice.
The notice directors decide not to offer the scrip in respect of any particular period for any other general meeting is 14 clear days subject to the dividend, cash will automatically be paid instead.
company obtaining annual shareholder approval, failing which, a 21 Apart from shareholders rights to share in BPs profits by dividend if clear day notice period will apply.
any is declared or announced, the Articles of Association provide that the directors may set aside: Liquidation rights: redemption provisions In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and A special reserve fund out of the balance of profits each year to applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of make up any deficit of cumulative dividend on the BP preference secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be shares.
entitled to the sum of 1 the capital paid up on such shares plus, A general reserve out of the balance of profits each year, which 2 accrued and unpaid dividends and 3 a premium equal to the shall be applicable for any purpose to which the profits of the higher of a 10% of the capital paid up on the BP preference shares company may properly be applied.
This may include capitalization of and b the excess of the average market price over par value of such such sum, pursuant to an ordinary shareholders resolution, and shares on the LSE during the previous six months.
The remaining distribution to shareholders as if it were distributed by way of a assets if any would be divided pro rata among the holders of dividend on the ordinary shares or in paying up in full unissued ordinary shares.
ordinary shares for allotment and distribution as bonus shares.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the Any such sums so deposited may be distributed in accordance with holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such the manner of distribution of dividends as described above.
preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the Holders of shares are not subject to calls on capital by the company, absence of any such resolutions, by determination of the directors, provided that the amounts required to be paid on issue have been and may issue shares that are to be or may be redeemed.
All shares are fully paid.
Variation of rights Voting rights The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the The Articles of Association of the company provide that voting on consent in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on resolutions at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a poll other the adoption of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of than resolutions of a procedural nature, which may be decided on a the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate show of hands.
If voting is on a poll, every shareholder who is present meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held and proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum with two votes for every 5 in nominal amount of BP preference shares respect to a meeting to change the rights attached to the preference held.
If voting is on a show of hands, each shareholder who is shares is 10% or more of the shares of that class, and the quorum to present at the meeting in person or whose duly appointed proxy is change the rights attached to the ordinary shares is one third or more present in person will have one vote, regardless of the number of of the shares of that class.
shares held, unless a poll is requested.
Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
Shareholders meetings and notices For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled to attend Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in or vote at a shareholders meeting and how many votes such persons the UK to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
may cast, the company may specify in the notice of the meeting a Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of time, not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting, by the deposit agreement relating to BP ADSs.
The substance and which a person who holds shares in registered form must be entered timing of notices are described above under the heading Voting rights.
on the companys register of members in order to have the right to Under the Act, the AGM of shareholders must be held once every attend or vote at the meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so.
year, within each six month period beginning with the day following Holders on record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, including a the companys accounting reference date.
All general meetings shall beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote on their be held at a time and place in England determined by the directors.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 285 See Glossary
