"Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the shareholders and board of directors of BP p. l. c. Opinion on the financial statements We have audited the accompanying group balance sheets of BP p. l. c. the Company as of 31December2017 and 2016, and the related group income statement, group statement of comprehensive income, group statement of changes in equity and group cash flow statement for each of the three years in the period ended 31December2017, and the related notes collectively referred to as the ""group financial statements""."
"In our opinion, the group financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BP p. l. c. at 31December2017 and 2016 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31December2017, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards ""IFRS"" as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board."
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States PCAOB, BP p. l. c. s internal control over financial reporting as of 31December2017, based on criteria established in the UK Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and our report dated 29March2018 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for opinion These financial statements are the responsibility of BP p. l. c. 's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to BP p. l. c. in accordance with the U. S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.
Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
s Ernst& Young LLP We have served as the Company's auditor since 1909.
London, United Kingdom 29March2018 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 123 Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the shareholders and board of directors of BP p. l. c. Opinion on internal control over financial reporting We have audited BP p. l. c. s internal control over financial reporting as of 31December2017, based on criteria established in the UK Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
In our opinion, BP p. l. c. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31December2017, based on the UK Financial Reporting Councils Guidance.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States PCAOB, the group balance sheets of BP p. l. c. as of 31December2017 and 2016, the related group income statement, group statement of comprehensive income, group statement of changes in equity and group cash flow statement for each of the three years in the period ended 31December2017, and our report dated 29March2018 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for opinion BP p. l. c. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements report on internal control over financial reporting on page 275.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the company in accordance with the U. S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
s Ernst& Young LLP London, United Kingdom 29March2018 Consent of independent registered public accounting firm We consent to the incorporation by reference of our reports dated 29March2018, with respect to the group financial statements of BP p. l. c. and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of BP p. l. c. included in this Annual Report and Form 20-F for the year ended 31December2017 in the following Registration Statements: Registration Statements on Form F-3 File Nos.
333-208478 and 333-208478-01 of BP p. l. c. and BP Capital Markets p. l. c. : and Registration Statements on Form S-8 File Nos.
