Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 Fina Finc naial st nciaat l S em tate ents | G ments | G lossar los ys o afr t y o erms f te rms 1 157 57 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Due to the technical nature of satellite FREE CASH FLOW C c ommunications and financial reporting we How much cash is available to pay back CASH CAPITAL EXPENDITURE use a number of terms and abbreviations in this borrowings, distribute to investors or invest Cash capital expenditure is the cash flow Annual Report and Accounts that are widely used in the business in future periods.
relating to tangible and intangible asset within those industries but are less commonly FX additions, it includes capitalised labour used by our broader community of stakeholders.
Fleet Xpress is Inmarsats GX-based costs and excludes capitalised interest.
The principal ones are summarised below.
product for the maritime market using our COMMISSIONED TERMINAL Ka-band satellites.
A A terminal that is registered with one of our services at the period end.
ACTIVE TERMINAL G A terminal that has been used to access CAGR GAAP commercial services except certain handheld The Compound Annual Growth Rate Generally Accepted Accounting Principles terminals at any time during the preceding measures average annual growth over a is the standard financial reporting framework 12 months and is registered with one of our period of time and is used in the Employee as defined by a body of accounting standards services at the period end.
It includes the Performance Share Award scheme.
and other guidance used in a given jurisdiction average number of certain handheld terminals see IFRS.
CGU a ctive on a daily basis during the final month A cash-generating unit is the smallest group of a period and excludes M2M terminals.
GEOSTATIONARY ORBIT [Being edited by front end team] of assets that generates cash inflows largely A circular geosynchronous orbit directly above ADJUSTED EBITDA independently from the other parts of the the Earths equator.
Satellites in geosynchronous Adjusted EBITDA is EBITDA excluding business and which represents the lowest orbit match their orbit to the orbit of the earth restructuring costs.
level at which goodwill is monitored within and so remain permanently in the same area the business.
A satellite developed with the European Space THE COMPANY GLOBAL XPRESS GX Agency and launched in 2013.
It supplements Where we refer to the Company we are Services offered by Inmarsat using Inmarsats our Inmarsat-4 satellite constellation.
referring to Inmarsat plc, the holding Inmarsat-5 satellites and Ka-band frequencies.
company of the Inmarsat Group.
ARPA GlobalXpress is the first high-speed broadband Average Revenue Per Aircraft.
satellite network to span the globe, from a single D operator.
It uses powerful beams able to reach ARPU small antennas on earth providing digital DEFINED BENEFIT AND DEFINED Average Revenue Per User.
connections for aviation, land and maritime use.
CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES ATC Defined benefit pensions schemes provide GMDSS Ancillary Terrestrial Components provide post-employment benefits based on an Global Maritime Distress and Safety Service communications services from ground employees final salary.
Defined contribution which is a system designed to automate a stations either as stand-alone services or pension schemes are schemes into which vessels radio distress alert, eliminating the to complement satellite services.
Inmarsat makes fixed contributions based need for manual watchkeeping of distress on a percentage of an employees salary.
Inmarsat is the only approved ATG provider of this Maritime Safety Service by ATG means the air to ground terrestrial E the International Maritime Organization IMO.
EAN GROUND STATIONS B For our European Aviation Network EAN, Our Ground Stations connect Inmarsat satellites the satellite and the complementary ground to terrestrial networks and the internet.
They are BANDWIDTH component CGC are integrated and the CGC in locations across the globe and continuously The radio spectrum is divided into different bands is not stand alone.
monitored from our network operations centre which each cover a section of frequencies that in London as well as from our back-up centre.
are usually used for a similar purpose.
Bands are EBITDA allocated to specific uses at international level Profit before net financing costs, taxation, THE GROUP by the ITU and regulated at a national level depreciation and amortisation, gains losses The Group refers to Inmarsat plc and all of its by domestic organisations and governments.
on disposal of assets, impairment losses subsidiaries.
We may also use we and our and share of profit of associates.
in reference to the Group, depending on BGAN the context.
Broadband Global Area Network is a high-speed F data satellite network using L-band frequency GSPS that spans the globe.
FLEETBROADBAND Global Satellite Phone Services are our Our flagship L-band maritime service handheld products and services including providing voice and broadband data IsatPhone Pro and IsatPhone 2. services across the worlds oceans.
15 158 8 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | G nts | G lo lo ssar ssay r o y o f t f t erms erm s IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED LIGADO NETWORKS I T A Cooperation Agreement between Inmarsat IAS OR IFRS TLCOMS SANS FRONTIRES TSF and Ligado Networks formerly LightSquared LP, International Accounting Standards or The telecommunications relief aid organisation, Skyterra Canada Inc. and LightSquared Inc. International Financial Reporting Standards it is a core beneficiary of our charitable support.
for the use of L-band in North America.
are the accounting standards issued by the TERMINALS International Accounting Standards Board.
M The consumer hardware used to receive and IFRS is also used to refer to international transmit voice and data from earth across our M2M GAAP as a whole.
It includes antenna enabled Machine-to-machine services and products.
ICAO hardware such as satellite phones and International Civil Aviation Organization.
INMARSAT-3 I-3, INMARSAT-4 I-4, V INMARSAT-5 I-5, INMARSAT-6 I-6 MBPS The third, fourth, fifth and sixth generations of Megabits per second are the units used to VSAT Inmarsat satellites.
Individual satellites in each measure data transfer rates in the satellite Very Small Aperture Terminals are small constellation are numbered F1, F2, F3, etc, so I-5 communications industry.
mobile two-way satellite antennas able to F2 refers to the second satellite launched in the receive and transmit voice and broadband fifth generation of Inmarsat satellites.
VSAT services are typically [Being edited by front end team] charged using a fixed monthly fee.
INMARSAT GATEWAY NETWORK AND SATELLITE Our platform for GX delivering customer support, OPERATIONS COSTS X network services and an app store, it also opens The costs of operating our ground stations.
up our networks to innovators through a XPRESSLINK developer portal.
O XpressLink is a fully-integrated Ku-band and L-band service with VSAT ITU OWN WORK CAPITALISED and FleetBroadband terminals for International Telecommunications Union.
Employee-related costs including salary and maritime end-users.
travel costs incurred in bringing property, plant J and equipment into use.
Own work capitalised is capitalised as part of the total cost of an asset.
JX JetConneX is Inmarsats GX-based product S for the business and general aviation market.
SAS K Satellite Access Station is another term for a Ground Station.
KA-BAND Downlink frequencies between 18GHz and S-BAND 22GHz and uplink frequencies between 27GHz A mobile satellite band between 2 and and 31GHz.
2.5GHz, which we are using for a high-speed This is the frequency band used by our GX broadband service under development for satellites, it has higher bandwidth than other the EU aviation industry.
The programme has bands allowing more data to be transmitted an Inmarsat S-band satellite fully integrated over the same satellite capacity.
We also use the term S-band to refer to the S-band programme KU-BAND in general.
Downlink frequencies between 10.7GHz and 12.74GHz and uplink frequencies between SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS 13.75GHz and 14.8GHz.
Often referred to as Carbon emissions as defined by the 11 14 or 12 14GHz.
This is the frequency band greenhouse gas protocol.
used by a number of our products and services Scope 1: All direct greenhouse gas emissions.
that we procure from other satellite network operators to complement our own spectrum.
Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heat or steam.
L Scope 3: Other indirect emissions L-BAND including travel.
Uplink and downlink frequencies between SWIFTBROADBAND satellites and mobile users between 1.5GHz A global service providing voice and and 1.6GHz.
This is the frequency band used high-speed data simultaneously through by our Inmarsat-3 and Inmarsat-4 satellites a single installation on an aircraft.
and also by our planned Inmarsat-6 satellites.
