We continued to progress development at the Maersk-operated Upstream analysis by region Culzean field BP 32% during the year.
The installation of the gas Our upstream operations are set out below by geographical area, with export pipeline and fixed jackets was completed in 2017, with associated significant events for 2017.
BPs percentage working development drilling ongoing.
First production is expected in 2019. interest in oil and gas assets is shown in brackets.
Working interest is The field will be developed with three fixed platforms and a floating the cost-bearing ownership share of an oil or gas lease.
the percentages disclosed for certain agreements do not necessarily Aker BP announced an agreement to acquire Hess Norge AS in reflect the percentage interests in proved reserves and production.
On completion of the transaction in December, Aker BP In addition to exploration, development and production activities, our became the sole owner of the Valhall and Hod fields but upstream business also includes midstream and LNG supply subsequently sold a 10% interest in each of these fields to Pandion activities.
Midstream activities involve the ownership and Energy AS.
BP subscribed for additional new shares in Aker BP as management of crude oil and natural gas pipelines, processing part of the financing of the acquisition of Hess Norge AS, and facilities and export terminals, LNG processing facilities and remains an owner of 30% of the issued share capital in Aker BP.
transportation, and our natural gas liquids NGLs processing In November, we announced that we had agreed to sell a package business.
of our interests in the Bruce assets in the North Sea to Serica Our LNG supply activities are located in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Australia, Energy plc.
We currently operate the assets, which comprise the Indonesia and Trinidad.
We market around 20% of our LNG production Bruce BP 37%, Keith BP 35% and Rhum BP 50% fields, three using BP LNG shipping and contractual rights to access import bridge-linked platforms and associated subsea infrastructure.
terminal capacity in the liquid markets of Italy in Rovigo, Spain in Under the terms of the agreement, Serica will pay BP an upfront Bilbao, the UK via the Isle of Grain and the US via Cove Point, with payment of 12.8 million equivalent to $17.2 million, a share of the remainder marketed directly to customers.
LNG is supplied to cash flows over the next four years, a consideration equivalent to customers in markets including Argentina, Chile, China, the 30% of our post-tax decommissioning costs and several contingent Dominican Republic, India, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, South Korea and payments dependent on future asset performance and product Taiwan.
Overall, we expect to receive payments of around 300 million equivalent to $403 million, the majority of which will be Europe received over the next four years.
Subject to the receipt of BP is active in the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea.
Our activities regulatory and other third-party approvals, we expect to complete focus on maximizing recovery from existing producing fields and new the sale and transfer of operatorship in the third quarter of 2018. field developments.
BPs production in 2017 was generated from The Clair field BP 29% and operator is the largest oilfield on the three key areas: the Shetland area - comprising the Clair, Foinaven, UK Continental Shelf.
Production began at the field, located 75 Magnus, and Schiehallion fields: the central area - comprising the kilometres west of the Shetland Islands, in 2005.
Its physical size Andrew, Bruce, ETAP, Keith, Kinnoull and Rhum fields: and Norway, dictates development via a phased approach, with Clair Ridge as through our equity accounted 30% interest in Aker BP established in the second phase of development.
This has involved the 2016 see below.
construction and installation of two new bridge-linked platforms, In January 2017 we announced that we had agreed to sell 25% of the legs of which were installed in 2013.
The final topside modules our 100% stake in Magnus, a 25% interest in a number of were safely installed in 2016, completing the construction phase.
associated pipelines and a 3% interest in the Sullom Voe Terminal Commissioning offshore is well under way, with first oil expected SVT on Shetland to EnQuest.
BP also agreed to transfer in late 2018. operatorship of these assets to EnQuest.
The sale price of In September the US Office of Foreign Asset Control renewed BPs $85million is expected to be met by EnQuest from future cash licence permitting certain US persons and US owned and flows from the assets, without any upfront payment to BP.
The controlled companies to support Rhum activities in compliance transfer completed on 1 December.
Under the terms of the with US primary sanctions.
The licence expires on 30 September agreement, EnQuest has an option, exercisable between 1July 2018.
The Rhum field is owned by BP 50% and the Iranian Oil 2018 and 15January 2019, to purchase BPs remaining 75% Company IOC, 50% under a joint operating agreement.
EU interest in Magnus, a further 9% interest in SVT and the remainder sanctions and certain US secondary sanctions in respect of Iran of BPs interests in the associated pipelines for a consideration of have been lifted or suspended as part of the Joint Comprehensive $300million.
See International trade sanctions on page 273.
We were awarded 25 blocks or part blocks in the UKs 29th During the year an exploration write-off of $178 million relating to Offshore Licensing Round in March 2017, representing the largest the Southern North Sea Carboniferous appraisal programme, acreage award for BP in the North Sea since the late 1990s.
The including the Ravenspurn North Deep well, was recognized.
There licence award includes three exploration wells.
were two exploration discoveries in 2017, namely Achmelvich and We announced in April that we had agreed to sell our Forties Capercaillie, both of which are currently being evaluated.
Pipeline System FPS business BP 100% to INEOS for an upfront cash consideration at the economic date of $125 million, adjusted North America for net cash flows in the interim period, followed by contingent Our upstream activities in North America are located in five areas: payments between 2022 and 2024 of up to a further $125 million.
deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Lower 48 states, Alaska, Canada and FPS is an integrated oil and NGLs transportation and processing Mexico.
system that handles production from around 80 fields in the central BP has around 260 lease blocks in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, and NorthSea.
As a result of this decision to sell, an impairment charge we operate four production hubs.
The sale completed on 31 October.
BPs existing transportation and processing rights in the system are We announced the start-up of the South Expansion major project at not affected by the divestment.
our Thunder Horse platform in January 2017.
Three producing wells came online in 2017 and the final well followed in early 2018.
The Production from the redeveloped Schiehallion area started in May, project scope includes a new subsea production system two miles following completion of the multi-billion-dollar Quad 204 project, to the south of the existing Thunder Horse platform.
The system is designed to extend the life of the fields and unlock further a collection of four wells connected to the platform by two lines resources.
The Schiehallion area comprises the Schiehallion BP installed on the seabed.
The project included the construction and installation of a floating, production, storage and During the year, a $68-million charge was recognized for the West offloading FPSO vessel, a major upgrade and replacement of Capricorn rig while it was warm stacked awaiting transfer to other subsea facilities and a continuous drilling programme of up to 20 projects.
The rig returned to drilling operations in the fourth quarter new wells to enable full development of the associated reserves.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 253 See Glossary In December BP completed the disposal of 26.5% of its 27.5% Alaska LNG LLC BPAL executed a co-operation agreement with AGDC detailing BPAL's commitment to helping the state further non-operated interest in the Perdido Regional Host to AL-Perdido develop Alaska LNG.
This agreement has been extended to 30 Holdings LLC.
Perdido is a regional floating production hub for June 2018. three fields including Great White BP 33% in the Gulf of Mexico.
The Prudhoe Bay oil field BP 26% and operator on Alaskas North In March 2017, we were awarded three leases in the OCS Central Slope reached 40 years of production in 2017, a milestone that Sale 247, in Mississippi Canyon Block 867 and Green Canyon highlights its important contribution to US energy security and the Blocks 738 and 870. economy of the state.
Since the field began production in 1977, it We were also awarded three leases in the Gulf of Mexico Wide has recovered more than 12.5 billion barrels of oil.
The original Sale 249, in Green Canyon Block 451 and Mississippi Canyon estimated recovery for Prudhoe Bay was 9.6 billion barrels, with an Blocks 820 and 864 in August.
additional 3 billion barrels so far unlocked through innovations in oilfield technology.
Prudhoe Bay remains the third largest oil field in During the year exploration write-offs totalling $213 million were the US on a proved reserves basis.
recognised, the most significant being $148 million in connection with the expiration of the Gila lease.
BP Pipelines Alaska Inc. BPPA owns a 49% interest in the TransAlaska Pipeline System TAPS.
TAPS transports crude oil from See also Financial statements Note 1 for further information on Prudhoe Bay on the Alaska North Slope to the port of Valdez in southexploration leases.
In April 2012 Unocal 1.37% gave notice to the other The US Lower 48 onshore business has significant operated and nonTAPS owners of their intention to withdraw as an owner of TAPS.
The operated activities across Arkansas, Colorado, New Mexico, remaining owners and Unocal have not yet reached agreement Oklahoma, Texas and Wyoming producing natural gas, oil, NGLs and regarding the terms for the transfer of Unocals interest in TAPS.
It has a 1.4 billion boe proved reserve base as at In 2017, the parties involved in TAPS tariff matters at the Federal 31December 2017, predominantly in unconventional reservoirs tight Energy Regulatory Commission FERC and the Regulatory gas, shale gas and coalbed methane.
This resource spans 3.1 Commission of Alaska RCA reached an agreement to settle all million net developed acres and has approximately 9,400 operated challenges pending before FERC involving TAPS interstate rates for gross wells, with daily net production around 300mboe d. the years 2009-2015 and establish a mechanism for calculating Since the beginning of 2015, our US Lower 48 onshore business has interstate rate ceilings for TAPS for the period from 2016 through operated as a separate business while remaining part of our 2021, as well as subsequent years unless otherwise terminated.
It has its own governance, systems and The agreement resolves all challenges pending before the RCA processes, and was established to increase competitive performance involving TAPS intrastate rates from 2008 to the present, and through swift decision-making and innovation, while maintaining BPs establish intrastate rate ceilings for the future through 30 June commitment to safe, reliable and compliant operations.
RCA approval was granted in January 2018 and FERC approval in February 2018.
Once all appeal periods have run, if the In East Texas the Haynesville and Bossier development is agreements are approved, the parties will proceed with underway.
This material development increased BPs net natural implementing the settlement agreements, including issuing tariff gas production for the fourth quarter of 2017 in the East Business refunds.
Implementation will result in production tax and royalty Unit by around 50% compared to the previous year.
payments to the State of Alaska while releasing some previously In August, we announced that a natural gas well in the Mancos accrued liability provisions within BP Alaska.
Shale, New Mexico BP 100% had been brought on line.
We In Canada, BP is focused on oil sands development as well as believe the field has the potential to be a significant new source of pursuing offshore exploration opportunities.
We utilize in-situ steamUS gas supply.
assisted gravity drainage SAGD technology in our oil sands In the fourth quarter an impairment charge of $321 million was developments, which uses the injection of steam into the reservoir to recognized as a result of changes in reserves estimates.
warm the bitumen so that it can flow to the surface through producing wells.
We hold interests in three oil sands lease areas BPs onshore US crude oil and product pipelines and related through the Sunrise Oil Sands and Terre fide Grace partnerships and transportation assets are included in the Downstream segment.
the Pike Oil Sands joint operation.
In addition, we have significant In Alaska, BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA operated nine North offshore exploration licences in Nova Scotia, Newfoundland and Slope oilfields in the Greater Prudhoe Bay area at the end of the year.
Labrador and the Canadian Beaufort Sea.
Our focus continues to be on safe and reliable operations, renewing In Mexico, we have interests in two exploration joint ventures in the Prudhoe Bay infrastructure and minimizing oil production decline.
For Saline Basin with Statoil and Total, Block 1 BP 33% and operator and the past three years BP has successfully combated decline at Block 3 BP 33%.
Both properties have submitted an exploration plan Prudhoe Bay through wellwork and improved operating field to Comisin Nacional fide Hidrocarburos CNH, the Mexican regulator, efficiencies, with production being largely maintained.
Infrastructure and approval was received in March 2018. renewal activities in 2017 included compressor replacements, fire and gas system upgrades, safety system upgrades, pipeline renewal, South America facility piping upgrades and facility-siting projects.
BP also owns BP has upstream activities in Brazil and Trinidad& Tobago, and significant interests in eight producing fields operated by others, as through Pan American Energy Group PAEG, in Argentina and Bolivia.
well as a non-operating interest in the Liberty prospect.
In Brazil BP has interests in 21 exploration concessions across five The Alaska LNG project concept includes a planned three-train basins.
North Slope gas treatment plant, approximately 800 miles of pipeline to tidewater and a three-train liquefaction facility, with an In October, we won two licences in the third Pre-Salt Bid Round in estimated capacity of 3 billion cubic feet per day bcf d up to 20 Brazil, the Alto fide Cabo Frio Central block BP 50%, and the million tonnes per annum supplied from the Prudhoe Bay and Peroba block BP 40%.
In April, the Alaska Gasline Development In the North Campos basin, we continue work on the BM-C-32 Corporation AGDC, a state entity which has led the project since Itaipu and BM-C-30 Wahoo projects with the potential for a joint December 2016, submitted a formal application for an authorization development or tie back between them.
A decision to move into to site, construct, and operate an integrated LNG project.
AGDC front-end engineering for a potential long-term test is planned for also conducted extensive marketing activities in Asia in 2017 November 2018. including signing a memorandum of understanding with the Korea Gas Corporation KOGAS, signing a joint development agreement Following the licence extension to 2019 which was approved in with China Petroleum and Chemical Corporation Sinopec, Bank of 2016, seismic processing and prospect inventory development China, and the Chinese Investment Corporation, signing a progressed in 2017 in Block BAR-M-346 in the Barreirinhas basin.
memorandum of understanding with PetroVietnam and signing a Letter of Intent with Tokyo Gas Company.
In January 2017 BP 254 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary BP continues to progress the preparatory activities for drilling In Algeria BP, Sonatrach and Statoil are partners in the In Salah BP 33.15% and In Amenas BP 45.89% projects that supply gas to the exploration wells in the Foz do Amazonas Basin, with a BPdomestic and European markets.
operated well scheduled to spud in 2020.
An extension request was submitted to the Brazilian National Petroleum Agency ANP The Bourarhat production-sharing contract PSC expired in regarding BP-operated block FZA-M-59.
We also expect drilling September 2014 and our exit concluded in 2017. activity to commence in 2019 on our other non-operated interests in Foz fide Amazonas BP 30%.
In December, BP and Statoil signed an extension agreement for the In Amenas PSC with Sonatrach, the Algerian state-owned In the South Campos basin, following approval of the revised energy company.
The agreement has been submitted to the appraisal plan by ANP in 2016, in Block BM-C-35 we have Algerian authorities for ratification.
postponed the decision to move into Appraisal Plan Stage II and In Angola, BP owns an interest in six major deepwater offshore commit to an additional pre-salt well or relinquish the area, until licences and is operator in two of these, blocks 18 and 31, that are October 2018. producing.
We also have an equity interest in the Angola LNG plant In Argentina and Bolivia BP conducts activity through PAEG, which BP 13.6%.
also has activities in Mexico.
In June, we announced that as part of our ongoing portfolio In December, we confirmed that the formation of Pan American evaluation we would relinquish our 50% interest in block 24 11 Energy Group PAEG had completed.
The new company, owned by offshore.
The Katambi gas discovery made in 2014 has not been BP 50% and Bridas Corporation 50%, is now the largest determined to be commercial.
As a result of this, and other privately owned integrated energy company operating in Argentina.
exploration write-offs, a total of $729 million was recognized during PAEG was formed in a cash free transaction by the combination of the year.
Pan American Energy and Axion Energy Axion.
Pan American In December, BP and Kosmos Energy KE announced that they had Energy had been owned 60:40 by BP and Bridas Corporation and been awarded five new offshore oil blocks in Cte dIvoire, under Axion had been wholly-owned by Bridas Corporation.
agreements with the government of Cte d'Ivoire and the state oil In Trinidad& Tobago BP holds exploration and production licences and company Socit Nationale d'Operations Ptrolires fide la Cte production-sharing agreements PSAs covering 1.8 million acres d'Ivoire PETROCI BP 45%, KE 45%, PETROCI 10%.
offshore of the east and north-east coast.
Facilities include 14 In Egypt, BP and its partners currently produce 10% of Egypts offshore platforms and two onshore processing facilities.
Production liquids production and almost 40% of its gas production.
comprises gas and associated liquids.
BP also has a shareholding in the Atlantic LNG liquefaction plant, BPs We announced the Qattameya discovery in March 2017, the third shareholding averages 39% across four LNG trains with a gas discovery in the North Damietta offshore concession in the combined capacity of 15million tonnes per annum.
We sell gas to East Nile Delta.
Options to tie the discovery back to nearby each of the LNG trains, supplying 100% of the gas for train 1, 50% infrastructure are being studied.
for train 2, 75% for train 3 and around 67% of the gas for train 4.
All In 2017 exploration write-offs of $368 million were recognized for a LNG from train 1 and most of the LNG from trains 2 and 3 is sold to number of wells including GEB East, Mocha and Tarif Deep, as a third parties in the US and Europe under long-term contracts.
We result of unsuccessful exploration drilling and the relinquishment of market the remaining equity LNG entitlement from trains 2, 3 and 4 exploration blocks.
to the US, UK, Spain and South America.
BP announced the start-up of gas production from the Taurus and The Trinidad onshore compression project BP 70% started up in Libra fields in the West Nile Delta development BP 82.75% in April.
The facility is expected to improve production capacity by May.
This development comprises five fields across the North increasing production from low-pressure wells in BPs existing Alexandria and West Mediterranean Deepwater offshore blocks acreage in the Columbus Basin using an additional inlet and is being developed as three separate projects to enable BP and compressor at the Point Fortin Atlantic LNG plant.
its partners to accelerate gas production commitments to Egypt.
We announced the Savannah and Macadamia gas discoveries in All projects are expected to be onstream by 2019.
Development of June both BP 70%.
The Savannah exploration well was drilled east the Taurus and Libra fields were fast-tracked following approval in of the Juniper field into an untested fault block using a semi- 2015.
It is a subsea greenfield development including nine wells submersible rig, and penetrated two hydrocarbon-bearing and 42 kilometre tieback to existing onshore processing facilities.
Based on the success of this well BP expects to develop Also in May, development of the Baltim South West field was these reservoirs through future tie-backs to the Juniper platform.
A dedicated mobile offshore production unit will be The Macadamia well was drilled to test exploration and appraisal installed and tied back to existing infrastructure through a new segments below the existing SEQB discovery south of the offshore onshore pipeline.
This discovery is expected to support a new platform in the future.
In February 2018, we announced the start-up of the Atoll field in the North Damietta concession following the drilling of three Also in June, we announced that development of the Angelin deepwater wells 950 metres below the waters surface.
Early offshore gas project had been sanctioned.
The project will involve production first started in December before the field came fully on construction of a new platform, BPs 15th offshore production line in January.
facility, 60 kilometres off the south-east coast of Trinidad in water depths of approximately 65 metres.
The development will include In December, the first phase of well drilling operations at the Zohr four wells, with gas from Angelin flowing to the Cassia B hub for gas field concluded and production has commenced.
Production processing via a new pipeline to the Serrette platform.
Drilling is had reached 350 million cubic feet per day at year end.
BP did not expected to start in late 2018 with first gas expected in 2019. exercise the option to purchase an additional 5% interest in the field by the end of 2017.
The final purchase consideration on the In August, we announced the start of production from our Juniper Zohr acquisition was $564 million.
Juniper is BPs first subsea development in Trinidad and is the acquisition of a 30% stake in a concession agreement to expected to boost our gas production capacity by around 590 develop the Zohr field.
The development produces gas from the Corallita and Lantana fields via the new Juniper platform, 80 kilometres off In Libya, BP partners with the Libyan Investment Authority LIA in an the south-east coast of Trinidad.
exploration and production-sharing agreement EPSA to explore acreage in the onshore Ghadames and offshore Sirt basins BP 85%.
Africa The EPSA continues to be in force majeure.
BP wrote off all balances associated with the Libya EPSA in 2015.
BPs upstream activities in Africa are located in Algeria, Angola, Cte d'Ivoire, Egypt, Libya, and Mauritania and Senegal.
In Mauritania and Senegal, BP has partnered with Kosmos Energy and has a 62% participating interest in the C-6, C-8, C-12 and C-13 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 255 See Glossary exploration blocks in Mauritania and a 60% participating interest in Dazu block, and drilling activity continued to progress in the two the Cayar Profond and St Louis Profond exploration blocks in Senegal.
blocks in the Sichuan basin.
2 Together these blocks cover approximately 33,000km.
In addition to In Azerbaijan, BP operates two PSAs,  ACG BP the existing blocks, the companies have agreed to co-operate in areas 30.37% and Shah Deniz BP 28.83% and also holds a number of of mutual interest in offshore Mauritania, Senegal and the Gambia, other exploration leases.
with Kosmos acting as the exploration operator and BP as the development operator.
In 2012 certain EU and US regulations concerning restrictive measures against Iran were issued, which impact the Shah Deniz Under the terms of the agreements with Kosmos Energy, joint venture in which Naftiran Intertrade Co Ltd NICO, a announced in December 2016, BP paid Kosmos cash bonuses of subsidiary of the National Iranian Oil Company, holds a 10% $162 million on completion.
BP will carry exploration and appraisal interest.
The EU sanctions and certain US secondary sanctions in costs of $228 million for Kosmos along with its development costs respect of Iran have been lifted or suspended as part of the Joint of $533 million, which include front-end engineering and design Comprehensive Plan of Action.
For further information see studies.
Kosmos will also receive a contingent bonus of up to $2 International trade sanctions on page 273. per barrel for up to 1 billion barrels of liquids, as a production royalty, subject to a future liquids discovery and oil price.
The The Shah Deniz Stage 2 project and associated South Caucasus Pipeline expansion project are now substantially complete in terms Mauritania deal with Kosmos completed in December 2016 and the Senegal deal completed in February 2017. of engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning, and remain on target for first gas delivery in 2018.
We achieved a BP and Kosmos Energy announced the Yakaar-1 gas discovery number of major project milestones in 2017, including the offshore Senegal in the Cayar Offshore Profond block in May.
This installation of both processing and utilities platforms offshore, followed the earlier exploration success that led to the Tortue installation of all processing facilities at the onshore terminal and discovery, where we completed a drill stem test in 2017. completion of pipeline construction in Azerbaijan and Georgia.
In July, we completed a deal with Timis Corporation to acquire their In September, the joint development and PSA for the ACG fields 30% interest in the Cayar Profond and the St Loius Profond blocks, was extended with the signing of an amended and restated PSA deepening our interest in these Senegal blocks.
between the State Oil Company of the Republic of Azerbaijan SOCAR and the contractor parties.
The renewed PSA has been We completed the acquisition of a 15% participating interest in the ratified by the Azerbaijani parliament and was effective from 1 C-18 exploration block in Mauritania from Tullow in September.
It extends the PSAs term by 25 years to 2049 and block is now operated by Total.
includes an improved contractor parties profit share at a fixed rate In October, Kosmos Energy announced that the Hippocampe-1 of 25%.
Under the terms of the agreement, BPs interest changes exploration well, in the C-8 block was unsuccessful.
As a result, an from 35.78% to 30.37% from the agreements effective date, with exploration write-off of $69 million was recognized.
a bonus of $1.46 billion BP net, payable to the government of Azerbaijan in equal instalments over eight years.
Following signing In December, KosmosEnergy announced that the Lamantin-1 of the PSA extension, BP and its partners approved the next stage exploration well in block C-12 was unsuccessful.
As a result, an of development of the Azeri-Central East project to examine the exploration write-off of $45 million was recognized.
potential for a further production platform to be located between In February 2018, Kosmos Energy announced that the Requin the existing Central Azeri and East Azeri platforms.
A final Tigre-1 well in the Saint Louis Profond block, offshore Senegal, was investment decision on this project is anticipated in 2019. fully tested but did not encounter hydrocarbons.
BP holds a 30.1% interest in and operates the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan In February 2018, the governments of Mauritania and Senegal BTC oil pipeline.
The 1,768-kilometre pipeline transports oil from the signed an Inter-Government Cooperation Agreement ICA which BP-operated ACG oilfield and gas condensate from the Shah Deniz will enable the development of the BP-operated Tortue Ahmeyim gas field in the Caspian Sea, along with other third-party oil, to the gas project to continue to move towards a final investment eastern Mediterranean port of Ceyhan.
The pipeline has a capacity of decision.
The ICA provides for development of the Tortue Ahmeyim 1mmboe d with an average throughput in 2017 of 694mboe d. gas field through cross-border unitisation, with a 50%-50% initial BP is technical operator of, and currently holds a 28.83% interest in, split of resources and revenues and a mechanism for future equity the 693 kilometre South Caucasus Pipeline SCP.
The pipeline takes redeterminations based on actual production and other technical gas from Azerbaijan through Georgia to the Turkish border and has a data.
The Tortue Ahmeyim gas field is located offshore on the capacity of 143mboe d, with average throughput in 2017 of border between Mauritania and Senegal.
BP has completed 125mboe d. BP as operator of Azerbaijan International Operating significant engineering design towards the project, an integrated Company also operates the Western Route Export Pipeline that gas value chain and near-shore liquefied natural gas LNG transports ACG oil to Supsa on the Black Sea coast of Georgia, with development which would export LNG to global markets as well as an average throughput of 77mboe d in 2017. supplying gas to Senegal and Mauritania.
BP also holds a 12% interest in the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas In Morocco, BP exited its final licence, the Essaouira offshore licence Pipeline that will transport Shah Deniz gas across Turkey, and a 20% BP 45% in 2017.
The majority of balances associated with the licence interest in the Trans Adriatic Pipeline that will take gas through Greece were written off in 2016, with the exception of a small payment for and Albania into Italy.
unfulfilled exploration commitments which was made in 2017.
In Oman, BP operates the Khazzan field in block 61 BP 60%.
Asia In September, we announced the start of production from the BP has activities in Abu Dhabi, Azerbaijan, China, India, Iraq, Kuwait, Khazzan gas field ahead of schedule and under budget.
Khazzan is Oman and Russia.
located in block 61 which is operated by BP in partnership with In China we have a 30% equity stake in the Guangdong LNG Oman Oil Company Exploration and Production.
Phase one of the regasification terminal and trunkline project with a total storage Khazzan development is made up of 200 wells feeding into a two- 3 capacity of 640,000m.
The project is supplied under a long-term train central processing facility.
Production from this phase at year contract with Australias North West Shelf venture BP 16.67%.
end had reached 0.3 billion cubic feet of gas per day BP net.
BP has two PSCs for shale gas exploration, development and In 2016 BP signed an agreement to extend block 61 and unlock production in the Neijiang-Dazu block and Rong Chang Bei block in Phase two of the Khazzan development, known as Ghazeer.
This is the Sichuan basin, China.
The two blocks, both in the exploration expected to add a further 0.5 billion cubic feet of gas per day, and 2 phase, cover a total area of approximately 2,500km.
China the final investment decision is expected in early 2018.
National Petroleum Corporation CNPC is the operator.
In 2017, the In Abu Dhabi, BP holds an equity interest of 14.67% in the ADNOC seismic acquisition programme was completed in the Neijiang Offshore concession formerly ADMA and a 10% interest in the ADNOC Onshore concession formerly ADCO.
We also have a 10% 256 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary equity shareholding in ADNOC LNG formerly ADGAS that supplied Following the decision taken in March 2016 not to progress with approximately 5.6million tonnes of LNG 263.6bcfe regasified in the floating LNG development, the Browse joint venture 2017. participants continue to evaluate a range of alternative development options, and are expecting to select one in 2018.
Our interest in the ADNOC Offshore concession expired in March 2018.
Current production is approximately 670mb d gross, with We announced that production had commenced from the partners lifting according to equity participation.
The concession, Persephone project on the North West Shelf BP 16.67% in together with all related rights and obligations, has reverted back to August.
The development comprises two subsea wells tied back to the government of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
Our interest in the the existing North Rankin complex.
ADNOC Onshore concession expires at the end of 2054.
Following the cancellation of the Great Australian Bight project, the In 2016 BP signed an enhanced technical service agreement for south Ocean Great White rig is currently warm stacked.
A number of and east Kuwait conventional oilfields, which includes the Burgan options for its deployment or renegotiation of the contractual terms field, with Kuwait Oil Company.
Implementation of the agreed remain under review and are being worked actively with the rig 2017-2018 plan for the Burgan oil field is underway as planned.
In India, we have a 30% participating interest in two oil and gas PSAs In Papua Barat, Eastern Indonesia, BP operates the Tangguh LNG and a 33.33% participating interest in one oil and gas PSA, all plant BP 40.22%.
The asset comprises 14 producing wells, two operated by Reliance Industries Limited RIL.
We also have a stake offshore platforms, two pipelines and an LNG plant with two with RIL in a 50:50 joint venture India Gas Solutions Private Limited production trains.
It has a total capacity of 7.6million tonnes of LNG for the sourcing and marketing of gas in India.
Tangguh supplies LNG to customers in Indonesia, China, South Korea, and Japan through a combination of long, medium and In 2017 BP recorded a $30-million impairment reversal and a $56- short-term contracts.
million reversal of exploration write-offs due to increased confidence in the progress of the projects in Block KG D6.
This fully The Tangguh expansion project, which was approved for final reverses all previously booked impairments on the block.
investment decision in 2016, is progressing on schedule.
The project includes a third LNG processing train train 3, adding 3.8 In June, BP and its partners announced that they had taken an million tonnes per annum mtpa of production capacity to the investment decision to progress development of the R-Series existing facility, bringing total plant capacity to 11.4mtpa.
The deepwater gas fields in Block KG D6 off the east coast of India.
The project also includes two offshore platforms, 13 new production R-Series fields will be developed as a subsea tieback to existing wells, an expanded LNG loading facility, and supporting infrastructure in the block.
The project is expected to come infrastructure.
This will enable BP to continue playing an important onstream in 2020 and is the first of three planned projects in Block role in supporting Indonesias growing energy demand, with 75% KG D6 to be developed in an integrated manner.
In October, field of its annual LNG production sold to the Indonesian state electricity development plans for the Satellite Cluster and D55 developments company PT.
First production from train 3 is were submitted for requisite approvals under the PSA.
In Iraq, BP holds a 47.6% working interest and is the lead contractor Approval from the government of Indonesia to relinquish BPs 32% in the Rumaila technical service contract in southern Iraq.
The interest in the Chevron-operated West Papua III was received in technical services contract runs to December 2034.
Rumaila is one of the worlds largest oil fields, comprising five producing reservoirs.
Approval for the relinquishment of West Papua I also BP 32% has not yet been obtained.
operations are not impacted by the continued instability and sectarian violence in the north and west of the country.
Production as at year end 2017 was 61 mboe d BP net.
In January 2018, BP signed a Letter of Intent to support Iraq's North Oil Company with current operations and development plans for longer-term redevelopment of the Kirkuk field.
This is an extension of a Letter of Intent signed in 2013.
In Russia, in addition to its 19.75% equity interest in Rosneft, BP holds a 20% interest in Taas-Yuryakh Neftegazodobycha Taas, a joint venture with Rosneft that is developing the Srednebotuobinskoye oil and gas condensate field in East Siberia see Rosneft on page 38 for further details.
We also hold a 49% interest in Yermak Neftegaz LLC, another joint venture with Rosneft to conduct exploration in the West Siberian and Yenisei-Khatanga basins.
Yermak Neftegaz LLC currently holds seven exploration and production licences.
The venture is also carrying out further appraisal work on the Baikalovskoye field, an existing Rosneft discovery in the Yenisei-Khatanga area of mutual interest.
Australasia BP has activities in Australia and Eastern Indonesia.
In Australia, BP is one of seven participants in the North West Shelf NWS venture, which has been producing LNG, pipeline gas, condensate, LPG and oil since the 1980s.
Six partners including BP hold an equal 16.67% interest in the gas infrastructure and an equal 15.78% interest in the gas and condensate reserves, with a seventh partner owning the remaining 5.32%.
BP also has a 16.67% interest in some of the NWS oil reserves and related infrastructure.
The NWS venture is currently the largest single source supplier to the domestic market in Western Australia and one of the largest LNG export projects in the region, with five LNG trains in operation.
BPs net share of the capacity of NWS LNG trains 1-5 is 2.7million tonnes of LNG per year.
BP is also one of five participants in the Browse LNG venture operated by Woodside and holds a 17.33% interest.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 257 See Glossary
