15 156 6 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co mpa nson liy fi dan te ad fi ncin aa l sta ncit a e l s mte an tts em ents IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts 2 s 201 017 7 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2017 A PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Accordingly, the Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to presentation of a cash flow statement, the reconciliation of net cash from operations, and related party transactions.
Where relevant, equivalent disclosures have been given in the Group accounts of the Company.
The accounting policies and financial risk management policies and objectives, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with those of the consolidated Group as set out in notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
B CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND KEY JUDGEMENTS The critical accounting estimates and key judgements, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with those of the consolidated Group as set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statement.
C INCOME STATEMENT The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under Section 408 of Companies Act 2006 and has not presented an income statement.
The profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 was $281.4m 2016: $80.6m.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION During the year, the Company paid its external auditor $0.1m for statutory audit services 2016: $0.1m.
EMPLOYEE COSTS AND DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The average monthly number of people employed during the year was two 2016: two.
Full details of Directors remuneration and Directors share options and share awards are given in the Remuneration report.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION Accounting for foreign currency transactions of the Company is consistent with that of the Group, which is disclosed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
SHARE CAPITAL The share capital of the Company is disclosed in note 24 to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
D FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The IFRS 7, Financial Instruments disclosures, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with that of the Group as set out in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
The differences between the Group and the Company in relation to intercompany balances are $466.0m 2016: $366.0m amounts due from Group companies and $30.2m 2016: $21.1m amounts due to Group companies, which eliminate on consolidation.
The Directors consider the carrying value of the intercompany balances to approximate to their fair value.
