BP has equity interests in non-operated joint arrangementswith air to Iran and other meetings in connection with various business opportunities.
fuel sellers, resellers, and fuel delivery services around the world.
From time to time, the joint arrangement operator or other partners Material contracts may sell or deliver fuel to airlines from Sanctioned Countries or flights to Sanctioned Countries, without BP's involvement.
On 13March 2014, BP, BP Exploration& Production Inc. and other BP entities entered into an administrative agreement with the US BP has no control over the activities non-controlled associates may Environmental Protection Agency, which resolved all issues related to undertake in Sanctioned Countries or with persons from Sanctioned the suspension or debarment of BP entities arising from the 20April Countries.
2010 explosions and fire on the semi-submersible rig Deepwater Disclosure pursuant to Section219 of ITRA Horizon and resulting oil spill.
The administrative agreement allows BP entities to enter into new contracts or leases with the US To our knowledge, none of BPs activities, transactions or dealings are government.
Under the terms and conditions of this agreement, required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRA Section219, with the which will apply for five years, BP has agreed to a set of safety and following possible exceptions: operations, ethics and compliance and corporate governance Rhum, located in the UK sector of the North Sea, is operated by BP requirements.
The agreement is governed by federal law.
Exploration Operating Company Limited BPEOC, a non-US On 4 April 2016 the district court approved the Consent Decree subsidiary of BP.
Rhum is owned under a 50:50 unincorporated among BP Exploration& Production Inc. BP Corporation North joint arrangement between BPEOC and Iranian Oil Company U. K. America Inc. BP p. l. c. the United States and the states of Alabama, Limited IOC.
During 2017, BP recorded gross revenues of $124 Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas the Gulf states which fully million related to its interests in Rhum.
BP had a net profit of $42 and finally resolves any and all natural resource damages NRD million for the year ended 31December 2017, including an claims of the United States, the Gulf states, and their respective impairment reversal of $16.7 million in the second quarter of 2017. natural resource trustees and all Clean Water Act CWA penalty As noted above, BP has agreed to sell its ownership stake in the claims, and certain other claims of the United States and the Gulf Rhum joint arrangement and transfer its role as operator to Serica states.
Concurrently, the definitive Settlement Agreement that BP entered In November 2017, BPEOC entered into an agreement with IOC for into with the Gulf states Settlement Agreement with respect to the sale and purchase of an IOC entitlement to Forties blend crude State claims for economic, property and other losses became oil.
The parties agreed to set off the purchase price 29.89 million $40.2 million equivalent against IOCs share of operating costs effective.
incurred or to be incurred by BPEOC as operator of the Rhum field BP has filed the Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement as under the Rhum joint operating agreement.
604,976 net barrels of exhibits to its Annual Report on Form 20-F 2017 filed with the SEC.
Forties blend crude oil was loaded at a North Sea terminal in For further details of the Consent Decree and the Settlement January 2018 and delivered to BPs Rotterdam refinery.
Upon Agreement, see Legal proceedings in BP Annual Report and Form 20- delivery at BPs Rotterdam refinery, the Forties blend crude oil was F 2015. comingled with other products for refining, and therefore BP is unable to ascertain an amount of gross revenue or gross profit Property, plant and equipment attributable to it.
BP does not expect to enter into any further similar arrangements with IOC in relation to the Rhum field.
BP has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate and other tangible assets in numerous countries, but no individual property is A third-party UK entitys purchase of IOCs share of Rhum natural significant to the group as a whole.
For more on the significant gas was settled by an assignment of receivables on 13 October subsidiaries of the group at 31December 2017 and the group 2017 pursuant to which BPEOC received 15 million $19.3 million equivalent from the UK entity, which would otherwise have been percentage of ordinary share capital see Financial statements Note 35.
For information on significant joint ventures and associates of payable to Naftiran Intertrade Company NICO Limited.
The 15 the group see Financial statements Notes 14 and 15. million $19.3 million equivalent has also been set off against IOCs share of operating costs incurred by BPEOC as operator of the Rhum field under the Rhum joint operating agreement.
BP does Related-party transactions not expect to enter into any further arrangements with NICO in Transactions between the group and its significant joint ventures and relation to the Rhum field.
associates are summarized in Financial statements Note 14 and In December 2016, BP Singapore Pte.
In the ordinary course of its business, the group enters into shipment of South Pars condensate from the National Iranian Oil transactions with various organizations with which some of its Company NIOC, which was loaded in Iran on 23December 2016 directors or executive officers are associated.
Except as described in and delivered to BPs Rotterdam refinery on 15January 2017.
BPS this report, the group did not have any material transactions or made a payment $52 million equivalent in consideration for the transactions of an unusual nature with, and did not make loans to, condensate on 19January 2017.
Upon delivery, the condensate was related parties in the period commencing 1January 2017 to 14 March comingled with other products for refining, and therefore BP is 2018. unable to ascertain an amount of gross revenue or gross profit attributable to it.
BP intends to continue to explore commercial opportunities with NIOC or its subsidiaries.
BP Iran Limited leases an office in Tehran.
The office is used for administrative activities.
In 2017, rental tax payments associated with the Tehran office, with an aggregate US dollar equivalent value of approximately $19,000, were paid from a BP trust account held with Tadvin Co. to Iranian public entities.
No gross revenues or net profits were attributable to these activities.
BP intends to continue to maintain an office in Tehran.
During 2017, certain BP employees visited Iran for the purpose of meetings with Iranian government officials and other Iranian nationals and attending conferences.
Payments were made to Iranian public entities for visas and taxes in relation to such visits with an aggregate US dollar equivalent value of approximately $12,000.
In addition, certain BP employees met with Iranian government officials and other Iranian nationals outside of Iran.
No gross revenues or net profits were attributable to these activities, save where otherwise disclosed, and BP intends to continue visits 274 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary
