Atlantic Richfield is named in these lawsuits as alleged International trade sanctions successor to International Smelting and Refining and another During the period covered by this report, non-US subsidiaries, or company that manufactured lead pigment during the period 1920-1946.
The plaintiffs include individuals and governmental other non-US entities of BP, conducted limited activities in, or with persons from, certain countries identified by the US Department of entities.
Several of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The State as State Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US and lawsuits seek various remedies including compensation to leadpoisoned children, cost to find and remove lead paint from EU sanctions Sanctioned Countries.
Sanctions restrictions continue to be insignificant to the groups financial condition and results of buildings, medical monitoring and screening programmes, public warning and education of lead hazards, reimbursement of operations.
BP monitors its activities with Sanctioned Countries, persons from Sanctioned Countries and individuals and companies government healthcare costs and special education for leadsubject to US and EU sanctions and seeks to comply with applicable poisoned citizens and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic Richfield has been settled nor has Atlantic Richfield been sanctions laws and regulations.
subject to a final adverse judgment in any proceeding.
The The US and the EU implemented temporary, limited and reversible amounts claimed and, if such suits were successful, the costs of relief of certain sanctions related to Iran pursuant to a Joint implementing the remedies sought in the various cases could be Comprehensive Plan of Action JCPOA.
As a result of the JCPOA, BP substantial.
While it is not possible to predict the outcome of has considered and developed possible business opportunities in these legal actions, Atlantic Richfield believes that it has valid relation to Iran, engaged in discussions with Iranian government defences.
It intends to defend such actions vigorously and officials and other Iranian nationals and attended conferences, and believes that the incurrence of liability is remote.
Consequently, will continue to do so.
BP believes that the impact of these lawsuits on the groups The North Sea Rhum field Rhum is owned under a 50:50 results, financial position or liquidity will not be material.
unincorporated joint arrangement between BP and Iranian Oil California False Claims Act matters Company U. K. Limited IOC.
BP obtained an updated OFAC licence On 4 November 2014, the California Attorney General filed a notice in in relation to the continued operation of Rhum on 29September 2017.
California state court that it was intervening in a previously-sealed On 21 November 2017, BP announced that it has agreed to sell California False Claims Act CFCA lawsuit filed by relator Christopher certain of its assets in the North Sea, including its ownership stake, Schroen against BP, BP Energy Company, BP Corporation North and the transfer of its role as operator, in the Rhum joint arrangement America Inc. BP Products and BPAPC.
On 7 January 2015, the to Serica Energy plc.
The sale and transfer of ownership is subject to California Attorney General filed a complaint in intervention alleging regulatory and third-party approvals and is expected to complete in that BP violated the CFCA and the California Unfair Competition Law the third quarter of 2018. by falsely and fraudulently overcharging California state entities for BP has a 28.8% interest in and operates the Azerbaijan Shah Deniz natural gas.
The relators complaint made similar allegations in field Shah Deniz and a related gas pipeline entity, South Caucasus addition to individual claims.
In January 2018 the parties reached a Pipeline Company Limited SCPC, and has a 23% non-operated settlement pursuant to which BP, while denying liability, agreed to pay interest in a related gas marketing entity, Azerbaijan Gas Supply $102 million to the state of California.
Naftiran Intertrade Co. Limited and NICO SPV Limited collectively, NICO have a 10% non-operating interest in Scharfstein v. BP West Coast Products, LLC each of Shah Deniz and SCPC and an 8% non-operating interest in A class action lawsuit was filed against BP West Coast Products, LLC in Oregon State Court under the Oregon Unlawful Trade Practices Act AGSC.
Shah Deniz, SCPC and AGSC continue in operation as they were excluded from the main operative provisions of the EU on behalf of customers who used a debit card at ARCO gasoline stations in Oregon during the period 1 January 2011 to 30 August regulations as well as from the application of the US sanctions, and fall within the exception for certain natural gas projects under 2013, alleging that ARCO sites in Oregon failed to provide sufficient Section603 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act notice of the 35 cents per transaction debit card fee.
In January 2014, the jury rendered a verdict against BP and awarded statutory of 2012 ITRA.
damages of $200 per class member.
On 25 August 2015, the trial BP holds an interest in a non-BP operated Indian joint ventureand court determined the size of the class to be slightly in excess of two sold produced crude oil to an Indian entity in which NICO holds a million members.
On 31 May 2016 the trial court entered a judgment minority, non-controlling stake.
for the amount of $417.3 million.
BP appealed and oral argument was Both the US and the EU have enacted strong sanctions against Syria, heard in August 2017.
The Oregon Court of Appeal has not yet issued including a prohibition on the purchase of Syrian-origin crude and a US its decision.
No provision has been made for damages arising out of prohibition on the provision of services to Syria by US persons.
EU sanctions against Syria include a prohibition on supplying certain equipment used in the production, refining, or liquefaction of petroleum resources, as well as restrictions on dealing with the Central Bank of Syria and numerous other Syrian financial institutions.
Following the imposition in 2011 of further US and EU sanctions against Syria, BP terminated all sales of crude oil and petroleum products into Syria, though BP continues to supply aviation fuel to non-governmental Syrian resellers outside of Syria.
BP sells lubricants in Cuba through a 50:50 joint arrangement and trades in small quantities of lubricants.
During 2014 the US and the EU imposed sanctions on certain Russian activities, individuals and entities, including Rosneft.
Certain sectoral sanctions also apply to entities owned 50% or more by entities on the relevant sectoral sanctions list.
In August 2017, new Russia related sanctions were passed in the US which target among other things: i Russian energy export pipelines: ii privatisation of state owned assets in Russia: and iii certain international offshore Arctic, deepwater and or shale E&P oil projects.
We are not aware of any material adverse effect on our current income and investment in Russia or elsewhere.
BP has registered and paid required fees to maintain registrations of patents and trade marks in Sanctioned Countries.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 273 See Glossary
