Fees and charges payable by ADS holders The Depositary collects fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them.
The Depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling a portion of the distributable property to pay the fees.
The charges of the Depositary payable by investors are as follows: Type of service Depositary actions Fee Depositing or substituting the Issuance of ADSs against the deposit of shares, $5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion thereof underlying shares including deposits and issuances in respect of: evidenced by the new ADSs delivered.
Share distributions, stock splits, rights, merger.
Exchange of securities or other transactions or event or other distribution affecting the ADSs or deposited securities.
Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being an $5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion thereof.
amount equal to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs that would have been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities.
Withdrawing an underlying Acceptance of ADSs surrendered for withdrawal of $5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof share deposited securities.
evidenced by the ADSs surrendered.
Expenses of the Depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of holders in connection Expenses payable are subject to agreement with: between the company and the Depositary by billing holders or by deducting charges from one Stock transfer or other taxes and governmental or more cash dividends or other cash charges.
Delivery by cable, telex, electronic and facsimile transmission.
Transfer or registration fees, if applicable, for the registration of transfers of underlying shares.
Expenses of the Depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency.
Dividend fees ADS holders who receive a cash dividend are charged a $0.02 per BP ADS per calendar year equivalent fee which BP uses to offset the costs associated with to $0.005 per BP ADS per quarter per cash administering the ADS programme.
Global Invest Direct GID New investors and existing ADS holders can buy or sell Cost per transaction is $2.00 for recurring, $2.00 Plan BP ADSs by enrolling in BPs GID Plan, sponsored and for one-time automatic investments, and $5.00 administered by the Depositary.
for investment made by check, plus $0.12 commission per share.
Fees and payments made by the Documents on display BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 is available online at bp.
com Depositary tothe issuer annualreport.
To obtain a hard copy of BPs complete audited financial The Depositary has agreed to reimburse certain company expenses statements, free of charge, UK based shareholders should contact BP related to the companys ADS programme and incurred by the Distribution Services by calling 44 0 870 241 3269 or by emailing company in connection with the ADS programme arising during the @bp.
If based in the US or Canada year ended 31December2017.
The Depositary reimbursed to the shareholders should contact Issuer Direct by calling 1888301 2505 company, or paid amounts on the companys behalf to third parties, or or by emailing bpreports@issuerdirect.
waived its fees and expenses, of $16,175,185.26 for the year ended The company is subject to the information requirements of the US 31December2017.
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
The table below sets out the types of expenses that the Depositary In accordance with these requirements, the company files its Annual has agreed to reimburse and the fees it has agreed to waive for Report and Form 20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
It standard costs associated with the administration of the ADS is possible to read and copy documents that have been filed with the programme relating to the year ended 31December2017.
SEC at its headquarters located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC20549, US.
You may also call the SEC at 1 800-SEC-0330.
In Category of expense reimbursed, Amount reimbursed, waived or waived or paid directly to third parties paid directly to third parties for the addition, BPs SEC filings are available to the public at the SECs year ended 31 December 2017 $ website.
BP discloses in this report see Corporate governance practices Form 20-F Item16G on page 275 significant ways if any Fees for delivery and surrender of BP 712,698.23 ADSs in which its corporate governance practices differ from those mandated for US companies under NYSE listing standards.
a Dividend fees 15,462,487.03 Total 16,175,185.26 a Dividend fees are charged to ADS holders who receive a cash distribution, which BP uses to offset the costs associated with administering the ADS programme.
Under certain circumstances, including removal of the Depositary or termination of the ADR programme by the company, the company is required to repay the Depositary certain amounts reimbursed and or expenses paid to or on behalf of the company during the 12-month period prior to notice of removal or termination.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 287 See Glossary
