Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Risk management 55 Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 12.
Risk to We may fail to hire skilled people or adequately improve We develop and implement a People strategy where we identify skills to maintain and grow our business, or to deliver key employees, skills and skills gaps to manage the human people, skills, our strategy.
We may lose highly technical and specialist resource effectively and enable delivery of the strategy of the location and employees who have very specific skill sets that are vital to Company.
We develop and implement recruitment strategies working the business.
We may lose knowledge with employees and to hire people with the new skills needed.
Inmarsats Brexit environment consultants that leave the Company.
Brexit negotiations committee analyses risks and deploys strategies to minimise outcomes could impact EU citizens working in London and possible impact.
The Brexit committee has organised briefing Link to strategy: UK citizens in Europe.
We may lose employee engagement sessions for EU citizen employees and Inmarsat is financially and motivation.
We may suffer a terrorist attack or a supporting residency applications.
We are in the process 4 natural disaster on one of our network or office locations.
of reviewing and enhancing our employee proposition which focuses on career development, training and reward The risk has decreased during 2017 due to the to improve peoples experience of Inmarsat.
implementation of the People strategy.
Downturns in the economy of a country and or world economy, We ensure the Company is financially robust and resilient 13.
Geo-political or closure of capital markets could impact our business, our to economic downturns.
risk ability to raise financing and impact the delivery of our strategy.
We continuously review and adapt our strategy in reaction Link to strategy: We could fail to comply with applicable international legislation to developing political or economic situations.
We assess and international reporting requirements.
and manage new risks such as the impact of the UK Brexit 4 Armed conflicts as well as a low oil price may have large and changes in government, epidemics, for example that effects on world trade and consequently on our business, potentially could impact our people and business.
Inmarsats 5 strategy and currency exchange rates.
Brexit committee analyses risks and deploys strategies to minimise possible impact.
We do a large amount of business with governments across the globe including the U. S. Government.
Major political policy changes and decisions, such as sanctions and Brexit, may impact our business.
Brexit negotiations outcomes could impact EU citizens working in London and UK citizens in Europe.
We may suffer a terrorist attack or a natural disaster on one of our network or office locations.
Our staff and their families may suffer a local epidemic or global pandemic.
contribute significantly to the longer-term viability Each scenario was tested and the financial impact VIABILITY STATEMENT of the Group.
The following risks were deemed as estimated based upon a combination of internal In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK having the potential to threaten the operational estimates and data available from reliable external Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors viability of the Group: sources.
Mitigation strategies were identified have assessed the viability of the Group over a and costed in conjunction with internal experts Failure of satellites and our network: Modelled three year period, taking into account the Groups to calculate the net likely financial impact of each the impact of a catastrophic failure to satellites current position and the potential impact of the scenario in both isolation and if they were to occur in both our I-4 and GX networks principal risks documented on pages 51 to 55 concurrently.
The Audit Committee reviewed and of the Annual Report.
Spectrum, Orbital slots and Market access discussed the process undertaken by management.
risk: Modelled the impact of our inability to ASSESSMENT PERIOD obtain appropriate licences and market access CONCLUSION The Directors have determined that a three year to deliver services across our key networks Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm period to 31 December 2020 is an appropriate that they have a reasonable expectation that Security Risk: Modelled the impact of an period over which to provide its viability statement.
the Company will be able to continue in operation aggressive cyber-attack that penetrates This is the key period of focus within the Groups our networks and or key systems and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the strategic planning process and it reflects period to 31 December 2020.
Failure of Critical Customers: Modelled the period over which the Group has reasonable the impact of the loss of key customers In reaching this conclusion the Directors noted visibility of both customer contracts and Geo-political risk: Modelled the loss of core that the Group is exposed to particularly high product development programmes.
government contracts due to geo-political levels of risk when a satellite is launched though ASSESSMENT PROCESS events outside the control of the Company this is routinely mitigated through launch insurance, The Long Range Business Plan the Plan, Failure to expand into the broadband market: for which there is a well-developed market.
Once which is updated annually, formed the basis for Modelled the impact of materially lower GX satellites have been successfully placed into orbit, the viability assessment.
The Plan, as a matter growth rates than in the Plan the experience of the last 35 years is that failures of routine, takes account of business as are rare, which is due in part to the high levels Failure to successfully grasp aviation usual risks including slower revenue growth, of redundancy that are routinely built into the passenger connectivity opportunity: Modelled increased operating costs, higher working capital satellites and ground network.
Looking beyond the impact of materially lower Aviation passenger requirements and adverse outcomes to disputed connectivity growth rates than in the Plan the risks associated with the satellites and our items.
In completing the viability assessment, network the geographical and sector diversification Failure to at least maintain our existing the Plan was tested against a number of severe of the Groups operations helps reduce the risk L-band business: Modelled the impact of but plausible principal risk scenarios.
The scenarios of a loss that might endanger the viability of materially lower growth rates than in the Plan were determined by considering which of the the Group.
Failure to maintain and grow Maritime principal risks to the business outlined above business: Modelled the impact of materially lower growth rates than in the Plan
