A Scrip Dividend Programme Scrip Programme was approved by between the US and the UK that entered into force on 31March shareholders in 2010 and was renewed for a further three years at the 2003 the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a 2015 AGM.
It is proposed that the Scrip Programme be renewed for a retroactive basis.
This section further assumes that each obligation further three years at the 2018 AGM.
It enables BP ordinary under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP ADSs and shareholders and ADS holders to elect to receive dividends by way of any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its new fully paid BP ordinary shares or ADSs in the case of ADS terms.
The operation of the Scrip Programme is For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention the always subject to the directors decision to make the Scrip Estate Tax Convention and for US federal income tax and UK Programme offer available in respect of any particular dividend.
taxation purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated Should the directors decide not to offer the Scrip Programme in as the owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those respect of any particular dividend, cash will be paid automatically ADRs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary instead.
shares generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial taxation other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on page 57 and other described below.
matters that may affect the business of the group set out in Our Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US strategy on page 12 and in Liquidity and capital resources on page federal, state and local, UK and other tax consequences of owning 251. and disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the circumstances, and in particular whether they are eligible for the company per ADS for the past five years.
benefits of the Treaty in respect of their investment in the shares or ADSs.
a Dividends per ADS March June September December Total Taxation of dividends 2013 UK pence 36.01 35.01 34.58 34.80 140.40 US cents 54 54 54 57 219 UK taxation 2014 UK pence 34.24 34.84 35.76 38.26 143.10 Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted US cents 57 58.5 58.5 60 234 from dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
Ashareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in 2015 UK pence 40.00 39.18 39.29 39.81 158.28 the UK or trading in the UK through a permanent establishment US cents 60 60 60 60 240 generally will not be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from 2016 UK pence 42.08 41.50 45.35 47.59 176.52 the company.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for tax US cents 60 60 60 60 240 purposes in the UK is subject to UK tax but until 5April 2016, was 2017 UK pence 48.95 46.54 45.73 44.66 185.88 entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on ordinary shares or US cents 60 60 60 60 240 ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend.
a Dividends announced and paid by the company on ordinary and preference shares are From 6April 2016 the Dividend Tax Credit was replaced by a new taxprovided in Financial statements Note 8. free Dividend Allowance and dividends paid by the Company on or after 6April 2016 do not carry a UK tax credit.
A Dividend Allowance There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on has been introduced whereby there is no UK tax due on the first remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of 5,000 of dividends received.
Dividends above this level are subject the companys operations, other than restrictions applicable to certain to tax at 7.5% for basic tax payers, 32.5% for higher rate tax payers countries and persons subject to EU economic sanctions or those and 38.1% for additional rate tax payers.
sanctions adopted by the UK government which implement Although the first 5,000 of dividend income is not subject to UK resolutions of the Security Council of the United Nations.
income tax, it does not reduce the total income for tax purposes.
Dividends within the Dividend Allowance still count towards basic or Shareholder taxation information higher rate bands, and may therefore affect the rate of tax paid on This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK dividends received in excess of the 5,000 allowance.
For instance, if taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US an individual has 2,000 of the basic rate band remaining after holder who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax earning non-dividend income, and receives 6,000 of dividend purposes.
It does not apply, however, inter alia to members of special income, they will be subject to the following scenario.
The Dividend classes of holders some of which may be subject to other rules, Allowance will cover the first 2,000 of dividends which fall into the including: tax-exempt entities, life insurance companies, dealers in remaining basic rate band, leaving the remaining 3,000 of the securities, traders in securities that elect a mark-to-market method of allowance to use in the higher rate band.
The first 5,000 dividend accounting for securities holdings, investors liable for alternative income is therefore covered by the allowance and is not subject to minimum tax, holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of tax.
The remaining 1,000 of dividend income falls into the higher rate the companys voting stock, holders that hold the shares or ADSs as band and is taxed at the rate of 32.5%.
part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction, holders that How the shareholder pays the tax arising on the dividend income purchase or sell the shares or ADSs as part of a wash sale for US depends on the amount of dividend income they receive in the tax federal income tax purposes, or holders whose functional currency is year.
If less than 5,000 they will not need to report anything or pay not the US dollar.
In addition, if a partnership holds the shares or any tax.
If between 5,000 and 10,000, the shareholder can pay ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a partner will generally what they owe by: contacting the helpline: asking HMRC to change depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of the their tax code the tax will be taken from their wages or pension or partnership and may not be described fully below.
through completion of the Dividends section of their tax return, A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is where one is being filed.
If over 10,000 they will be required to file a for US federal income tax purposes 1 a citizen or resident of the US, self-assessment tax return and should complete the Dividends 2 a US domestic corporation, 3 an estate whose income is subject section with details of the amounts received.
From 6 April 2018 the to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or 4 a trust if amount of the Dividend Allowance will fall to 2,000. a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorized to control US federal income taxation A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross all substantial decisions of the trust.
amount of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or This section is based on the tax laws of the United States, including accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder history, existing and proposed US Treasury regulations thereunder, that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws of the holder at a preferential rate, provided that the holder has a holding UK, all as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention period in the ordinary shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 281 See Glossary 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and immediately preceding the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by the ADSs may be subject to tax with respect to capital gains arising from company with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs will generally a disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs of the company not only in be qualified dividend income.
the jurisdiction of which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition but also in the other jurisdiction.
For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the US federal income taxation Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or the dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received ADSs will recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the dividends received from other US corporations.
US ADS holders amount realized on the disposition and the US holders tax basis, should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US tax treatment determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Any such of the dividend fee in respect of dividends.
Dividends will be income capital gain or loss generally will be long-term gain or loss, subject to from sources outside the US and generally will be passive category tax at a preferential rate for a non-corporate US holder, if the US income or, in the case of certain US holders, general category holders holding period for such ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one income, each of which is treated separately for purposes of year.
computing a US holders foreign tax credit limitation.
Gain or loss from the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be income or loss from sources within the US for As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital withholding tax.
Accordingly, the receipt of a dividend will not entitle losses is subject to limitations.
the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
We do not believe that ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares that is stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US paid in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the pounds federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual sterling payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US determination that is made annually and thus is subject to change.
If dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, we are treated as a PFIC, unless a US holder elects to be taxed regardless of whether the payment is, in fact, converted into US annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to ordinary shares or dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange ADSs, any gain realized on the sale or other disposition of ordinary fluctuations during the period from the date the pounds sterling shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain.
dividend payment is includible in income to the date the payment is Instead, a US holder would be treated as if he or she had realized converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss such gain rateably over the holding period for ordinary shares or ADSs and will not be eligible for the preferential tax rate on qualified and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year dividend income.
The gain or loss generally will be income or loss to which the gain was allocated, in addition to which an interest from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year would Distributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, as apply.
Certain excess distributions would be similarly treated if we determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a were treated as a PFIC.
return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as Additional tax considerations described in Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation Scrip Programme section below.
The company has an optional Scrip Programme, wherein holders of In addition, the taxation of dividends may be subject to the rules for BP ordinary shares or ADSs may elect to receive any dividends in the passive foreign investment companies PFIC, described below under form of new fully paid ordinary shares or ADSs of the company Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
Please consult your tax adviser for the consequences made by a PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and are to you.
not eligible for the preferential tax rate applicable to such income.
UK inheritance tax Taxation of capital gains The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax.
ADSs held by an individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax UK taxation Convention in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain Convention a national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance on the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is tax on the individuals death or on transfer during the individuals 1 resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom at the date of lifetime unless, among other things, the ADSs are part of the disposal, 2 if he or she has left the UK for a period not exceeding business property of a permanent establishment situated in the UK five complete tax years between the year of departure from and the used for the performance of independent personal services.
In the year of return to the UK and acquired the shares before leaving the exceptional case where ADSs are subject to both inheritance tax and UK and was resident in the UK in the previous four out of seven tax US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally years before the year of departure, 3 a US domestic corporation provides for tax payable in the US to be credited against tax payable resident in the UK by reason of its business being managed or in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be credited against tax payable controlled in the UK or 4 a citizen of the US that carries on a trade or in the US, based on priority rules set forth in the Estate Tax profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or a Convention.
corporation that carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK, through a permanent establishment, and that has used, held, or UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs for the purposes of such trade, The statements below relate to what is understood to be the current profession or vocation of such branch, agency or permanent practice of HM Revenue& Customs in the UK under existing law.
However, such persons may be entitled to a tax credit Provided that any instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and against their US federal income tax liability for the amount of UK remains at all times outside the UK and the transfer does not relate to capital gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains as the any matter or thing done or to be done in the UK, no UK stamp duty case may be that is paid in respect of such gain.
is payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs.
Neither will an Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares or agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs give rise to a liability ADSs generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of to stamp duty reserve tax.
residence of the relevant holder as determined under both the laws Purchases of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, through the of the UK and the US and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
CREST system of paperless share transfers will be subject to stamp Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK or the duty reserve tax at 0.5%.
The charge will arise as soon as there is an US and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or agreement for the transfer of the shares or, in the case of a the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years conditional agreement, when the condition is fulfilled.
The stamp 282 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary
