18 Strategic Report | Our markets Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MARKET TRENDS Significant growth opportunities FIXED SATELLITE OPERATORS MOBILITY RELATIVELY KEY MARKET TRENDS AND MARKETS REMAIN UNDER PRESSURE, WELL-INSULATED FROM RISK INMARSATS POSITION WHILST GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES OF FUTURE OVER-SUPPLY INDUSTRY OVERVIEW REMAIN IN MOBILITY Satellite operators are progressively adopting Satellite communications operators, like Unlike fixed satellite operators, Inmarsat has HTS technology, with HTS capacity expected Inmarsat, own and operate fleets of satellites as no exposure to slower growth, structurally to grow from less than 700 Gbps in 2015 a communications network, distributing services challenged markets, in particular video and to approximately 3,600 Gbps in 2020 while either directly to end customers or with the fixed point telecommunications, and is therefore demand is now expected to exceed 1,500 Gbps support of third party service providers and highly differentiated from these operators.
by 2020, the majority of which is expected to distributors.
There are two primary categories come the utilisation of consumer broadband As evidence of this, Inmarsat outperformed of satellite operators: in North America source: Euroconsult.
the listed fixed service operator peer group, Mobile satellite services MSS operators, in terms of revenue growth, in recent years.
Consequently, most of the competing satellite including Inmarsat, typically operating in L-, Further validation of the growth prospects systems planning to launch in the coming years Kaor S-frequency bands, and focusing on of mobility is that most of the fixed satellite have not been designed and will not therefore communications for mobility applications operators are looking to enter mobility markets be optimised, for mobility markets.
We expect in commercial and governmental markets to support their future growth profile.
Inmarsats core global maritime, aviation and government mobility markets will remain Fixed satellite services FSS operators Inmarsat has a unique position in mobility, relatively well insulated from this threat.
operate in Ka-, Kuand C-bands, and focus with a long-standing and sustainable on communications for fixed applications advantage in coverage, high-performance Furthermore, much of the capacity to be in media, telecoms, corporate and mobility-designed satellites, unique and delivered by these new satellite systems governmental markets highly secure networks and technology, may be stranded over areas of low demand, embedded safety services and a so negatively impacting the economics MSS and FSS operators use satellites that market-leading distribution network.
are located in geostationary orbit, orbiting 35,786km above the Earth, medium earth orbit, ONGOING SURGE IN DEMAND FOR INCREASING INTEGRATION orbiting approximately 8,000 to 16,000km BROADBAND DATA ON THE MOVE WITH TERRESTRIAL NETWORKS above the Earth and low earth orbit, orbiting The major long-term trend in our industry is AND ECOSYSTEMS approximately 480 to 1,600km above the significant ongoing surge in demand for In a world increasingly reliant on coverage the Earth.
In each of Inmarsats core and connectivity to perform mission-critical market segments, customers continue to tasks via applications and solutions, mobile Inmarsats satellites are in geostationary utilise more of our products, which have been satellite communications services can offer orbit, orbiting the Earth above the equator uniquely designed to deliver truly pervasive, a powerful complementary capability to at the same speed as the Earth rotates, highly reliable broadband data on the move.
terrestrial networks, delivering a complete and therefore remain above the same point package to end-users, and providing high relative to the Earths surface.
This means Broadband data is increasingly becoming levels of resilience.
that a satellite system of just three satellites a mission-critical enabler of our customers is enough to achieve global coverage.
businesses, to help drive their commercial The reach of terrestrial networks has For satellite operators in middle and low and operational progress.
Our customers extended geographically, working seamlessly earth orbits, given their closer proximity demand for data is being accelerated by the with global satellite communications networks, to Earth and the technological challenges emergence of the internet of things which providing customers with the end-to-end of landing traffic from those positions, is proliferating billions of smart devices and services they require.
Consequently, the closer many more satellites are required to extending the requirement for highly secure, integration of satellite with broader information achieve global coverage.
highly reliable connectivity into many new and communications ecosystems is therefore areas of the global economy.
expected to lead to the increasing importance of value-added services and new business Inmarsat is already at the forefront models in the industry.
of providing this connectivity and we will continue to support our customers as Inmarsat will look to collaborate with terrestrial their requirements continue to develop operators to provide holistic solutions and over the medium to long-term.
For example, we announced in March 2017 our participation in AT&Ts consortium for the First Responder Network Authority contract in the U. S. with a view to delivering a wide portfolio of satellite communication solutions and value-added INMARSAT HAS A UNIQUE POSITION IN MOBILITY, services, as part of the AT&Ts national network solution.
WITH A LONG-STANDING AND SUSTAINABLE ADVANTAGE IN COVERAGE, HIGH-PERFORMANCE MOBILITY-DESIGNED SATELLITES Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Our markets 19 In-Flight Connectivity: a growth market The major growth opportunity for Inmarsat in the coming years is the provision of IFC services to customers in the commercial air transport segment According to 2017 research conducted Inmarsat, with a current estimated segment by Inmarsat in conjunction with the share in IFC of over 30% excluding North London School of Economics, connectivity America and based on our signed aircraft is transforming aviation markets, with under contract for GX Aviation services, WE ARE TARGETING related ancillary revenues from activities is targeting to become the market leader like targeted advertising, e-commerce in this rapidly developing market segment.
TO BECOME THE and the delivery of premium content and With our unique global broadband networks MARKET LEADER entertainment becoming increasingly including both GX and our integrated satellite important to airline profitability.
air-to-ground, the EAN, complemented by IN THIS RAPIDLY This research forecasts that airlines will our global high resilience and safety networks DEVELOPING be gatekeepers to a $130bn incremental deployed across our SwiftBroadband SB market opportunity for all related parties and SB-Safety services and supported by MARKET SEGMENT by 2035, empowered by IFC services, our strong and highly experienced distribution with the airlines themselves capturing channel and hardware partners as well as our around 25% of this value.
This will be own newly created direct sales, marketing and driven by digitalisation across the industry, service delivery capability, we are well-placed consistent growth in passenger demand to continue to drive towards market leadership for connectivity and new technologies, in this high-growth sector over the coming powered by satellite communications and years.
Although we currently remain in the air-to-ground networks.
Consequently, market capture and infrastructure investment the retail value for satellite operators and phase regarding the global IFC opportunity, services providers delivering IFC connectivity we remain confident that over the medium-term services to the industry is predicted to grow our IFC business will become highly profitable from around $1bn in 2017 to $5.4bn by 2026 and cash generative on a long-term, source: Euroconsult.
2 0,000 PREDICTED INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF CONNECTED AIRCRAFT IN OPERATION BY THE MIDDLE OF THE NEXT DECADE
