Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I Inmar nmars sat at p plc | lc | A An nn nu ual al Re Repor portt a an nd d A Acc ccount ounts 2 s 201 017 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 117 17 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The Group has performed a review of all significant revenue streams to identify the impact of applying the IFRS 15 five-step recognition model, as follows: Inmarsat plc the Company or, together with its subsidiaries, the Group is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and domiciled in England and 1.
Identify the contract with the customer Wales.
The address of its registered office is 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX, 2.
Identify the distinct performance obligations United Kingdom.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations 2.
Recognise revenue as or when a performance obligation is fulfilled The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial The restatement of 2017 comparatives in the 2018 accounts is expected to statements are set out below.
These policies have been applied consistently result in a decrease in 2017 revenue of $9m and an increase in 2017 EBITDA to all the years presented unless otherwise stated.
Profit before tax is expected to increase by $4m while opening 2017 retained earnings are expected to decrease by $10m.
Trade receivables and BASIS OF PREPARATION deferred revenue specific to Ligado are expected to increase by $20m and These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with $24m respectively.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS The Group has established internal controls to monitor the materiality Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical of unadjusted differences that are immaterial and not expected to change cost convention except for certain financial instruments that have been in the near future.
measured at fair value, as described later in these accounting policies.
IFRS 16 Leases GOING CONCERN IFRS 16 is mandatory for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, The Group has a robust and resilient business model, positive free cash flow with early adoption allowed subject to the adoption of IFRS 15.
The standard generation and is compliant with all banking covenants.
Because of this, the sets out requirements for recognising assets and liabilities in respect of leases, Directors believe that the Company and the Group are well-placed to manage and will supersede the existing accounting guidance in IAS 17 Leases and its business risks successfully.
After considering current financial projections the related interpretations.
The Group will early adopt IFRS 16 in the period and facilities available and after making enquiries, the Directors have a beginning 1 January 2018 using the modified retrospective approach which reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate allows for certain practical expedients on transition.
Under the modified resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
retrospective approach, the lease liability and asset are recognised as Accordingly, Inmarsat plc continues to adopt the going concern basis in at 1 January 2018 the implementation date with no restatement of prior preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Further discussion of the Groups business activities, together with factors likely The core principle of the standard is to provide a single lessee accounting to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the model, requiring lessees to recognise a right-of-use asset and lease liability Strategic Report which encompasses the Chairmans review, the Chief Executives for all leases unless the term is less than 12 months or the underlying asset review, the financial review and the viability statement on pages 1 to 55. has a low value.
IFRS 16 will substantially change lease accounting for operating lessees which will now need to be recognised on the balance sheet.
Lease BASIS OF ACCOUNTING costs will be recognised in the form of depreciation of the right-of-use The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is asset and interest on the lease liability over the lease term.
the functional currency of the Company and most of the Groups subsidiaries.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with The Group has assessed the impact that IFRS 16 will have on the financial IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect statements.
The area of material impact relates to property leases where the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent the Group is the lessee.
The expected adjustments as at 1 January 2018 in the assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts Groups Balance Sheet are the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease of revenue and expenses during the year.
Although these estimates are based liabilities amounting to $76m and $87m respectively.
In terms of the Groups on managements best estimate of the amount, event or actions, the actual financial performance for 2018, EBITDA is expected to be $13m higher under results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
Further discussion on these IFRS 16 compared to the previous standard, as lease costs will be expensed estimates and assumptions are disclosed in note 4. as depreciation and interest rather than operating costs.
Profit before tax is expected to be $2m lower.
ACCOUNTING POLICY CHANGES IFRS 9 Financial Instruments New and amended accounting standards adopted by the Group IFRS 9 will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and There are no new IFRS or IFRIC Interpretations that are effective for this supersedes IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
new standard covers the accounting treatment of the following three areas: New and amended accounting standards that have been issued but classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities are not yet effective and have not been adopted by the Group hedge accounting IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. impairment of financial assets The standard sets out the requirements for recognising revenue from The Group anticipates minimal impact from changes in classification contracts with customers, and will supersede the current revenue recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities and hedge accounting guidance including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and the with the Group opting for the policy choice allowed by IFRS 9 to continue related interpretations.
hedge accounting as under IAS 39.
When IFRS 15 is adopted, it can be applied either on a full retrospective basis, IFRS 9 will impact the recognition and measurement of impairment of financial requiring the restatement of the comparative periods presented in the financial assets, but this is not expected to be material.
The IAS 39 incurred loss model statements, or with the cumulative retrospective impact of IFRS 15 applied as is replaced by the IFRS 9 forward looking expected credit loss model.
The an adjustment to equity on the date of adoption.
The Group will adopt the full new model requires either 12-month expected credit losses ECLs, or lifetime retrospective approach from 1 January 2018 and will show comparative figures ECLs to be recognised for all financial assets at initial recognition before an for the December 2017 financial year under IFRS 15 as part of the 2018 impairment event occurs.
1 118 18 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Under the expected credit loss model, there are three approaches for Consideration is the fair value at the acquisition date of the assets transferred measuring and recognising impairment losses on financial assets, namely and liabilities incurred in acquiring the business and includes the fair value the general approach, simplified approach and credit adjusted approach.
Changes in fair value of contingent For short-term trade receivables, IFRS 15 contract assets and lease consideration after the acquisition date are recognised in the income receivables, the Group will apply the simplified approach.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in operating costs.
The Group has performed a review of all categories of financial assets and expects the impact on the financial statements from applying IFRS 9s ECL Goodwill is initially measured at cost as the difference between the fair value model to be immaterial.
of the consideration for the acquisition and fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired, including any identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill.
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration If the assessment of goodwill results in an excess of the fair value of net IFRIC 22 will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the subject to endorsement by the EU.
The interpretation clarifies how to account gain is recognised in the income statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill for transactions that involve advance consideration paid or received in is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose a foreign currency.
The interpretation is not expected to have a material of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cashimpact on the Group.
generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments are assigned to those units.
IFRIC 23 will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The interpretation clarifies the application of recognition and measurement FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION requirements in IAS 12 for uncertain tax positions.
Guidance is provided The functional currency of the Company and most of the Groups subsidiaries, on a number of areas including whether uncertain tax positions should as well as the presentation currency of the Group, is US Dollar.
This is as the be considered separately or together, the appropriate method to reflect majority of operational transactions and financing are denominated in uncertainty, and how to account for changes in facts or circumstances.
The Group does not intend to early adopt and is currently performing an assessment to determine if the interpretation will have a material impact.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange rates IFRS 17 will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021 and are recognised in the income statement line which most appropriately supersedes IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, subject to endorsement by the EU.
reflects the nature of the item or transactions.
Neither standard is applicable to the Group.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated Amendments to accounting standards that are effective for into the Groups presentation currency at the prevailing spot rate at year end.
the current period The results of foreign operations are translated into US Dollars at the average The following standards have all been endorsed by the EU and are effective rates of exchange for the year.
Foreign currency translation differences for the current period.
The Group has considered all the below amendments resulting from consolidating foreign operations are recognised in equity.
and has determined that these do not have a material impact.
REVENUE Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure Initiative Mobile satellite communications service revenues result from utilisation charges that are recognised as revenue in the period during which the services Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for are provided.
Deferred income attributable to mobile satellite communications Unrealised Losses services or subscription fees represents the unearned balances remaining Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle from amounts received from customers pursuant to prepaid contracts.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until such time as the BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires.
The Group also enters into The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of minimum spend contracts with customers, known as take-or-pay contracts, the Company and all its subsidiaries, and incorporate the share of the results whereby customers agree to purchase a minimum value of mobile satellite of associates using the equity method of accounting.
communications services over a fixed period.
Any unused portion of the The results of subsidiary undertakings established or acquired during the prepaid contracts or the take-or-pay contracts breakage is recognised period are included in the consolidated income statement from the date of as revenue in line with service provision when reasonable assurance as establishment or acquisition of control.
The results of subsidiary undertakings to the breakage amount exists, or otherwise when the contract expires.
disposed of during the period are included until the date of disposal.
Where Mobile satellite communications service revenues from capacity sold are necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract concerned, to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
which is typically between one and 12 months, unless another systematic All transactions, balances, income and expenses with and between subsidiary basis is deemed more appropriate.
undertakings have been eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue also includes income from spectrum coordination agreements Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries, such as Ligado Networks, services contracts, other communications which consist of the amounts of those interests at the date of the original services and income from the sale and installation of terminals and other business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes communication equipment.
Revenue from spectrum coordination agreements in equity since the date of the combination, are not material to the Groups is recognised using the percentage of completion or a straight-line approach financial statements.
depending on the underlying terms of the agreement.
Revenue from service contracts is recognised as the service is provided over the contract period.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Sales of terminals and other communication equipment are recognised when Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
Revenue When the Group acquires a business, it identifies the assets and liabilities from installation of terminals and other communication equipment is of the acquiree at the date of acquisition and measures them at fair value.
recognised when the installation is completed.
Only separately identifiable intangible assets are recognised.
Any assets or disposal groups held for sale at the acquisition date are measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 119 19 The Group offers certain products and services as part of multiple deliverable method with the interest expense recognised in the income statement and a arrangements.
Multi-deliverable arrangements are divided into separate cash outflow resulting from coupon payments to bond holders.
The derivative units of accounting, provided: 1 the deliverable has a stand-alone value to liability component is initially assigned the residual amount after deducting the customer if it is sold separately: and 2 the fair value of the item can be from the fair value of the instrument as a whole, the amount separately objectively and reliably determined.
Consideration for these items is measured determined for the debt component.
The derivative liability is sensitive and allocated to each separate unit based on their relative fair values and the to changes in the bond price and is marked-to-market at each reporting relevant revenue recognition policies are applied to each.
date with the increase or decrease recognised in the income statement.
FINANCING INCOME AND FINANCING COST Senior Notes Financing income comprises interest receivable on funds invested in shortThe Group has issued Senior Notes that are included within borrowings, term deposits.
and are initially recognised at fair value which equates to the proceeds received, net of direct transaction costs and any premium or discount.
Financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings including the These instruments are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance Senior Notes and Convertible Bonds, accretion of the liability component charges, including amortisation of direct transaction costs and any premium of the Convertible Bonds, amortisation of deferred financing costs, the unwind or discount, are recognised in the income statement over the term of the of the discount on deferred satellite liabilities and interest on the net defined borrowing at the effective interest rate method.
benefit asset and post-employment liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement at the effective interest rate.
Net borrowings Net borrowings consists of total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents The change in fair value of the derivative liability component of the 2023 and short-term investments.
Borrowings exclude accrued interest and any Convertible Bond is presented within net financing costs in the income derivative financial liabilities.
Further details on the accounting for derivative financial instruments is provided below.
Derivative financial instruments In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue FINANCIAL ASSETS derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Trade and other receivables Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contract is Trade and other receivables, including prepaid and accrued income, are initially entered into and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using remeasurement is recognised in the income statement, except where the the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated derivative is used to hedge against risks such as fluctuations in interest rates uncollectable amounts.
The accounting policy for hedging follows below.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash flow hedges Cash and cash equivalents, measured at fair value, comprises cash balances, The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is deposits held on call with banks, money market funds and other short-term, recognised in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve, highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income overdrafts are shown as current liabilities within borrowings on the balance sheet.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Where there is a material contract with a foreign currency exposure, a specific Equity instruments hedge to match the specific risk will be evaluated.
At present the Group only An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the hedges certain foreign currency milestone payments to Airbus and Thales for net assets of the Group.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded the construction of the I-6 and GX-5 satellites.
at the proceeds received, net of direct issue cost.
Amounts recognised as other comprehensive income are transferred to profit Trade and other payables or loss when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised, or when a forecast measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
When the hedged item is the future purchase of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amount recognised as other comprehensive Borrowings income is transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset Borrowings, comprising interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts, are initially or liability.
recognised at fair value which equates to the proceeds received, net of direct transaction and arrangement costs.
They are subsequently measured at EMPLOYEE BENEFITS amortised cost.
Finance charges related to borrowings, including amortisation Wages, salaries, social security contributions, accumulating annual leave, of direct transaction costs, are charged to the income statement over the term bonuses and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the of the borrowing using the effective interest rate method.
associated services are performed by the employees of the Group.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has the Termination benefits are payable whenever an employees employment unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee after the balance sheet date, in which case borrowings are classified as accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
recognises termination benefits when it has demonstrably committed to either terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination Convertible Bonds benefits, as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The Group has issued Convertible Bonds which are net share settled instruments.
Upon conversion the Group will repay the principal in cash The Group recognises liabilities relating to defined benefit pension plans and satisfy the remaining conversion value by issuing ordinary shares of and post-employment benefits in respect of employees.
The Groups net the Company if the market value of the Companys shares at settlement obligations in respect of defined benefit pension plans and post-employment date exceeds the conversion price.
Upon issuance, in accordance with benefits are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount IAS 32, the instrument is bifurcated between a debt component and of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in a derivative liability component.
the current and prior periods.
The estimated future benefit is discounted to its present value, from which the fair value of any plan assets is deducted The cash debt component is initially recognised as the present value of the to calculate the plans net asset liability position.
The calculations are principal and interest payments using a discount rate for a similar instrument performed by qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
with the same terms and conditions but without the conversion option.
After initial recognition, it is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 12 120 0 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present value of the PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets are immediately General recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Property, plant and equipment assets are initially recognised at cost and subsequently treated under the cost model: at cost less accumulated The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
Pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are charged to the income depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
statement when the related employee service is rendered.
Space segment assets The Group issues equity-settled share options and awards to employees.
Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other Equity-settled share option awards are measured at fair value of the options associated costs, including ground infrastructure.
Expenditure charged to at the date of the grant.
The fair value of the options is expensed on a straightspace segment projects includes invoiced progress payments, amounts line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares accrued appropriate to the stage of completion of contract milestones, that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based external consultancy costs and direct internal costs.
Internal costs, comprising vesting conditions.
primarily staff costs, are only capitalised when they are directly attributable to the construction of an asset.
Progress payments are determined on TAXATION milestones achieved to date together with agreed cost escalation indices.
Deferred satellite payments represent the net present value of future Current tax payments dependent on the future performance of each satellite and are The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit recognised in space segment assets when the satellite becomes operational.
differs from net profit as reported in the income statement as it excludes items Depreciation on space segment assets is recognised over the life of the of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and items satellites from the date they become operational and are placed into that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is service.
The associated liability is stated at its net present value and included calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted within borrowings.
by the balance sheet date.
Assets in the course of construction Deferred tax These assets are carried at cost with no depreciation charged whilst in the Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising between assets and course of construction.
The assets will be transferred to space segment assets liabilities tax bases and their carrying amounts the balance sheet method.
and depreciated over the life of the satellites or services once they become Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted operational and placed into service.
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability Capitalised borrowing costs is settled.
The Group incurs borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of assets that necessarily take a substantial Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.
Such borrowing costs taxable profits will be available against which the temporary deductible are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
Capitalisation commences when differences or tax loss carry forwards can be utilised.
the Group begins to incur the borrowing costs and related expenditures for the Deferred tax liabilities are provided on all taxable temporary differences except asset, and when it undertakes the activities that are necessary to prepare the on those: asset for its intended use or sale.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when substantially all of the activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended arising from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction use or sale are complete.
other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit Other fixed assets Other fixed assets are initially recognised at cost and subsequently measured associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, but only to the at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
extent that the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the differences and it is probable that the reversal will not occur in the foreseeable future Depreciation Depreciation is calculated to write-off the historical cost less residual values, Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable if any, of fixed assets, except land, on a straight-line basis over the expected right to set them off, when they relate to income taxes levied by the same useful lives of the assets concerned.
The Group selects its depreciation rates taxation authority and if the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and residual values carefully and reviews them annually to take into account and liabilities on a net basis.
any changes in circumstances or expectations.
When determining useful lives, Uncertain tax positions the principal factors considered are the expected rate of technological The Groups policy is to comply with all enacted laws in the relevant jurisdictions developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the in which the Group prepares its tax returns.
However, tax legislation, especially intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
Any change in useful as it applies to corporate taxes, is not always prescriptive and more than lives are accounted for prospectively.
The Group also reviews the residual one interpretation of the law may be possible.
In addition, tax returns in many values and depreciation methods on an annual basis.
jurisdictions are filed in arrears a year or more after the end of the accounting Derecognition period to which they relate.
The tax authorities often have a significant An item of property plant or equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when period in which to enquire into these returns after their submission.
As a result, no future economic benefit is expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or differences in view, or errors in returns, may not come to light until some time loss arising on derecognition of the asset, calculated as the difference between after the initial estimate of tax due is determined.
This necessarily leads to the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, is recognised a position of uncertain tax positions.
Where the Group is aware of significant areas where the law is unclear and GOVERNMENT GRANTS where this has been relied upon in a filing position of a tax return, or, in an area Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance where different outcomes and interpretations are possible and may lead to a that the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied different result, the Group provides for the uncertain tax position.
A grant that relates to an expense item is recognised as income on is made when, based on the available evidence, the Group considers that it is a systematic basis over the period s that the related costs are expensed.
probable that further amounts will be payable, or a recoverable tax position A grant that relates to an asset is deducted from the cost of the relevant will be reduced, and the adjustment can be reliably estimated.
The Group asset, thereby reducing the depreciation charge over the useful life of calculates the uncertain tax position using a single best estimate of the the asset.
most likely outcome on a case-by-case basis.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 121 21 INTANGIBLE ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD FOR SALE Intangible assets comprise goodwill, trademarks, software, terminal Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale when their development and network access costs, spectrum rights, orbital slots carrying values will be recovered through a sales transaction rather than through and licences, customer relationships and intellectual property.
This classification is subject to meeting the following criteria: Intangible assets acquired separately are initially recognised at cost.
Intangible management is committed to a plan to sell and the asset is being actively assets acquired as part of a business combination are initially recognised marketed for sale at a sales price reasonable in relation to its fair value at their fair values as determined at acquisition date.
After initial recognition, the asset is available for immediate sale intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
the sale is highly probable to be concluded within 12 months of classification as held for sale and Research and development costs Research costs related to internally generated intangibles are expensed in it is unlikely that the plan to sell will be significantly changed or withdrawn the period that the expenditure is incurred.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and associated liabilities to be disposed Development costs are expensed when the costs are incurred unless it meets of together in a single transaction.
At the reporting date they are separately criteria for capitalisation under IAS 38.
Development costs are only capitalised disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
if the technical feasibility, availability of appropriate technical, financial When non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale, and other resources and commercial viability of developing the asset for depreciation and amortisation will cease and the assets are remeasured subsequent use or sale have been demonstrated and the costs incurred can be at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Capitalised development costs are amortised in the income Any resulting impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, statement on a straight-line basis over the period of expected future benefit.
except for assets treated under the revaluation model, where the adjustment Amortisation would first decrease the revaluation reserve before any excess will be Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line recognised as an impairment loss in the income statement.
Any remainder basis over the useful life of the asset.
The amortisation period and method in the revaluation reserve will be released to the income statement on are reviewed on an annual basis.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful the date of sale.
life, such as goodwill, are not amortised but reviewed annually for impairment.
INVENTORIES IMPAIRMENT REVIEWS Inventories are stated at the lower of cost determined by the weighted Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment at 31 December average cost method and net realisable value.
Allowances for obsolescence each year.
are recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that inventory is obsolete.
Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the PROVISIONS full carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Indicators of impairment may Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal include changes in technology and business performance.
An asset is tested or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow for impairment on an individual basis as far as possible to determine its of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable recoverable amount.
Where this is not possible, assets are grouped and estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
tested for impairment in a cash generating unit.
A cash generating unit is The expense relating to a provision is recognised in the income statement, the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are except where the obligation is to dismantle or restore an item of property, largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
plant or equipment, in which case the amount is capitalised to the cost of An asset will be impaired if the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable the asset.
The capitalised amount is subsequently depreciated to the amount, which is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell the asset and the income statement over the remaining useful life of the underlying asset.
The impairment loss will be recognised in the income statement.
Provisions are discounted to a present value at initial recognition where In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to the effect of discounting is deemed to be material.
Discounted provisions their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market will unwind over time using the amortised cost method with finance cost assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
recognised in the income statement.
Provision estimates are revised each reporting date and adjustments recognised in line with the provisions initial Subsequent to an impairment loss, if indications exist that an assets recognition either in the income statement or recognised against the cost recoverable amount might have increased, the recoverable amount will be of the asset.
reassessed and any impairment reversal recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying Asset retirement obligations amount will not exceed the depreciated historical cost what the carrying The fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible amount would have been had there been no initial impairment loss.
property, plant and equipment is recognised in the financial statements in the period in which the liability is incurred.
Upon initial recognition of a liability for Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
an asset retirement obligation, a corresponding asset retirement cost is added LEASES to the carrying amount of the related asset, which is subsequently amortised Leases where significantly all of the risks and rewards pertaining to ownership to income over the remaining useful life of the asset.
Following the initial of the underlying leased assets are retained by the Group as lessor are recognition of an asset retirement obligation, the carrying amount of the classified as operating leases.
Rentals receivable and income generated from liability is increased for the passage of time by applying an interest method operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line of allocation to the liability with a corresponding accretion cost reflected basis over the term of the lease.
Rentals payable under operating leases where in operating expenses.
the Group is the lessee are charged to the income statement on a straight-line Revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate basis over the term of the lease.
of undiscounted cash flows are recognised each period as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation.
12 122 2 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES C CREDIT RISK In response to the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures APMs Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA, we have obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Financial instruments provided additional information on the APMs used by the Group including that potentially subject the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist definitions which are included in the Glossary on page 157.
The Directors use of cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, trade receivables, other APMs to better understand the underlying financial performance of the Group receivables, accrued income and derivative financial instruments.
The credit and to provide comparability of information between reporting periods and risk on liquid funds cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits and business units.
The measures are also used in discussions with the investment derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are analyst community and the credit rating agencies.
Given that APMs are not highly rated financial institutions.
defined by International Financial Reporting Standards they may not be The maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December is: directly comparable with other companies who use similar measures.
APMs considered to be KPIs include EBITDA including adjusted EBITDA, Cash Capex $ in millions Note 2017 2016 and adjusted EPS and are defined on page 16.
Cash and cash equivalents 16 144.9 262.0 Trade receivables, other receivables and 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT accrued income 31 275.3 250.7 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS Derivative financial instruments 31 1.5 1.8 The Groups operations and significant debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, Total credit risk 421.7 514.5 foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit The Groups average age of trade receivables as at 31 December 2017 was adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using forward approximately 57 days excluding Ligado and approximately 52 days including exchange contracts to limit exposure to foreign currency risk and to limit the Ligado 2016: 63 days excluding Ligado and 58 days including Ligado.
impact of fluctuating interest rates by minimising the amount of floating rate long-term borrowings.
At 31 December 2017, $170.0m 2016: $165.6m of trade receivables were not yet due for payment.
No interest is charged on trade receivables until the The Board of Directors has delegated to the treasury department the receivables become overdue for payment.
Thereafter, interest may be charged responsibility for setting and implementing the financial risk management at varying rates depending on the terms of the individual agreements.
policies applied by the Group.
The treasury department has an operating manual that sets out specific guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, The Group has credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended interest rate risk and credit risk see note 31.
The Group does not hold or to mitigate potential credit risks, and utilises both internal and third-party issue derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
collection processes for overdue accounts.
The Group maintains provisions for potential credit losses that are assessed on an ongoing basis.
The provision A MARKET RISK for uncollectible trade receivables has decreased to $12.5m as at 31 December i Foreign exchange risk 2017 2016: $13.7m.
The functional currency of Inmarsat plc is the US Dollar.
Apart from the For 2017, no customer comprised greater than 10% of the Groups total deferred satellite liability, all of the Groups long-term borrowings are revenues 2016: no customer.
denominated in US Dollars, the majority of its revenue is earned in US Dollars and the majority of capital expenditure is denominated in US Dollars, which The ageing profile of past due but not impaired trade receivables is: are therefore not subject to risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency $ in millions 2017 2016 rates of exchange.
Between 1 and 30 days overdue 18.8 35.3 However, the Group operates internationally, resulting in approximately 3% and 24% of total revenue and total expenditure, respectively, being denominated Between 31 and 120 days overdue 9.0 7.9 in currencies other than the US Dollar.
Approximately 27% 2016: 32% of Over 120 days overdue 1.5 the Groups operating costs are denominated in Pounds Sterling.
The Groups As at 31 December 27.8 44.7 exposure therefore needs to be carefully managed to avoid variability in future cash flows and earnings caused by volatile foreign exchange rates.
D LIQUIDITY RISK As at 31 December 2017 it is estimated that a hypothetical 1% increase in the The Group is exposed to liquidity risk with respect to its contractual obligations US Dollar Sterling year-end exchange rate US$1.34 1.00 to US$1.35 1.00 and financial liabilities.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining would have increased the 2017 profit before tax by approximately $0.1m sufficient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through 2016: $0.6m.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in foreign The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast exchange rates.
and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets ii Price risk and liabilities.
The Group is not exposed to significant equity securities price risk or commodity The available liquidity of the Group as at 31 December is: price risk.
B INTEREST RATE RISK $ in millions Note 2017 2016 The Groups income and operating cash flows are substantially independent Cash and cash equivalents 16 144.9 262.0 of changes in market interest rates.
The Group has interest-bearing assets 1 Available but undrawn borrowing facilities 19 500.5 578.9 such as cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, and non-current other receivables however interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Total available liquidity 645.4 840.9 Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest 1 Relates to the Senior Credit Facility see note 19 rate risk: however, as at 31 December 2017, the Group has no borrowings issued at variable rates following the full repayment of the EIB loan in October 2016.
The Directors believe the Groups liquidity position is more than sufficient to The Senior Notes due 2022 and 2024, the Convertible Bonds due 2023 and meet its needs for the foreseeable future.
the Ex-Im Bank Facilities are all at fixed rates.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 123 23 4.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND C CAPITALISATION OF SPACE SEGMENT ASSETS AND KEY JUDGEMENTS ASSOCIATED BORROWING COSTS The net book value of space segment assets is currently $2,510m The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires 2016: $2,037m.
There have been additions of $175m in the year.
management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the The key judgements involved in the capitalisation of space segment reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets assets and associated borrowings costs are: and liabilities at the balance sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results could differ from those whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IAS have been met: estimates.
The more significant judgements and estimates are discussed below: whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation A TAXATION of costs should cease and depreciation should commence and: The calculation of the Groups uncertain tax provisions involves estimation in whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a result respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease.
resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
Issues can, and often do, take a number of D PROXY BOARD ARRANGEMENT years to resolve.
The amounts recognised or disclosed are derived from the The Group has made key judgements in determining the accounting treatment Groups best estimation.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the of Inmarsat Government Inc. outcome of these means eventual realisation could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash flows.
The U. S. Government element of Inmarsats Government business unit is managed through the U. S. trading entity, Inmarsat Government Inc. a whollyThe Group maintains tax provisions in respect of ongoing enquiries with owned subsidiary of the Group.
The business is managed through a Proxy tax authorities.
In the event that all such enquiries were settled as currently agreement as required by the U. S. National Industrial Security Program provided for, we estimate that the Group would incur a cash tax outflow of NISP.
A Proxy agreement is an instrument intended to mitigate the risk of approximately $90m, excluding interest, during 2018.
The enquiries remain foreign ownership, control or influence when a foreign person owns, acquires ongoing at this time.
or merges with a U. S. entity that has a facility security clearance under the B REVENUE IN RESPECT OF THE LIGADO NETWORKS NISP.
The Proxy agreement conveys the foreign owners voting rights to the COOPERATION AGREEMENT Proxy Holders, comprised of the Proxy board.
There are three Proxy holders In December 2007, Inmarsat and Ligado Networks formerly LightSquared LP, who are U. S. citizens cleared and approved by the U. S. Defence Security Skyterra Canada Inc. and LightSquared Inc. entered into a Cooperation Service DSS.
Agreement for the efficient use of L-band spectrum over North America.
The The Proxy holders have a fiduciary duty, and agree, to perform their role in the Cooperation Agreement was segregated into phases and designed to enable best interests of the Group including the legitimate economic interest, and and support the deployment of an ATC network by Ligado in North America.
in a manner consistent with the national security interests of the U. S. Key estimates and judgements have been made regarding the future of Ligado and the Cooperation Agreement.
The DSS requires Inmarsat Government Inc. to enter into a Proxy agreement because it is indirectly owned by the Group and it has contracts with the To date total cash payments of $885.7m have been received under the Department of Defence which contain certain classified information.
The Proxy Cooperation Agreement, including $110.7m in 2017 2016: $126.2m.
agreement enables Inmarsat Government Inc. to participate in such contracts The Group has, thus far, recognised $703.9m of revenue and $43.1m of with the U. S. Government despite being owned by a non-U.
operating costs under all phases of the agreement.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group recognised $126.7m of revenue with $2.0m Under the Proxy agreement, the Proxy holders have the power to exercise operating costs year ended 31 December 2016: $119.4m and $nil, respectively.
all privileges of share ownership of Inmarsat Government Inc.
In addition, as a result of the Proxy agreement, certain limitations are placed on the information In March 2016, Ligado Networks agreed to take the 30MHz option the 30MHz which may be shared, and the interaction which may occur, between Inmarsat Plan under Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement between the companies.
Government Inc. and other Group companies.
In exchange for the deferral of some payments from Ligado to Inmarsat, the parties agreed to delay the transition to the 30MHz Plan, with Ligado providing The Group maintains its involvement in Inmarsat Government Inc. s activities Inmarsat enhanced spectrum usage rights for its satellite operations for a through normal business activity and liaison with the Chair of the Proxy Board.
minimum period of two years.
Over the three-year period approximately $35m Inmarsat Government Inc. s commercial and governance activity is included of additional contracted payments will be deferred.
With this in mind, Ligado in the business update provided in regular Executive reports to the Board.
made quarterly payments to Inmarsat totalling $110.7m during the course of This activity is always subject to the confines of the Proxy regime to ensure 2017 and will make aggregate payments of approximately $118m in respect that it meets the requirement that Inmarsat Government Inc. must conduct of 2018, payable in quarterly instalments.
This revenue is recognised on an its business affairs without direct external control or influence, and the accruals basis.
requirements necessary to protect the U. S. national security interest.
At 31 December 2017, deferred income in respect of the Cooperation In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, an assessment Agreement of $181.8m was recorded on the balance sheet.
Although the is required to determine the degree of control or influence the Group exercises cash has been received, the timing of the recognition of this deferred income, and the form of any control to ensure that the financial statement treatment together with any related future costs and taxes, is dependent upon when is appropriate.
On the basis of the Groups ability to affect the financial and Ligado receive their FCC licence, which remains uncertain.
During 2017, operating policies of the entity, we have concluded that the Group meets the Inmarsat recognised $14.0m of deferred income as revenue to reflect the requirements of IFRS 10 in respect of control over the entity and, therefore, impact of the revenue deferral arising under the revised transition agreement.
consolidates the entity in the Groups consolidated accounts.
$2.0m was recognised in relation to costs incurred on interference.
12 124 4 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker to allocate resources and assess the performance of the Group.
The Groups operating segments are aligned to five market-facing business units, being: Maritime, focusing on worldwide commercial maritime services U. S. Government, focusing on U. S. civil and military government services Global Government, focusing on worldwide civil and military government services Aviation, focusing on commercial, business and general aviation services Enterprise, focusing on worldwide energy, industry, media, carriers, and M2M services Details of these business units are given on pages 20 to 37.
These five business units are supported by Central Services which include satellite operations and backbone infrastructure, corporate administrative costs, and any income that is not directly attributable to a business unit such as Ligado Networks.
The Group has aggregated the U. S. Government and Global Government operating segments into one reporting segment as the segments have a similar type of customer for the products and services and meet the criteria for aggregation under IFRS.
Therefore, the Groups reportable segments are Maritime, Government, Aviation, Enterprise, and Central Services.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Segment results are assessed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker at the EBITDA level without the allocation of central costs, depreciation and amortisation, net financing costs and taxation.
SEGMENT RESULTS 2017 Central $ in millions Maritime Government Aviation Enterprise Services Total Revenue 564.7 366.7 195.0 132.6 14.5 1,273.5 Ligado revenue 126.7 126.7 Total revenue 564.7 366.7 195.0 132.6 141.2 1,400.2 Net operating costs 122.8 101.5 91.6 40.7 292.2 648.8 1 Adjusted EBITDA 441.9 265.2 103.4 91.9 151.0 751.4 Restructuring charge 19.9 19.9 2 EBITDA 441.9 265.2 103.4 91.9 170.9 731.5 Depreciation and amortisation 406.7 3 Other 3.3 Operating profit 321.5 Net financing cost 91.7 Profit before tax 229.8 Taxation 47.5 Profit for the year 182.3 4 Cash capital expenditure 43.4 9.9 130.9 414.5 598.7 Financing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 40.2 5 Cash flow timing 36.6 Total capital expenditure 675.5 1 Adjusted EBITDA excludes a one-off restructuring charge of $19.9m incurred in Q4 2017 2 EBITDA is defined as profit before net financing costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation, gains losses on disposal of assets, impairment losses and share of profit of associates and, as a non-statutory metric, it has been reconciled to profit after tax later on in this announcement.
EBITDA is a commonly used industry measure, which helps investors to understand the contribution made by each of our business units 3 Other relates to the share of profit from associates $4.0m and loss on disposal of assets $7.3m 4 Cash capital expenditure is the cash flow relating to tangible and intangible asset additions: it includes capitalised labour costs and excludes capitalised interest 5 Cash flow timing represents the difference between accrued capex and the actual cash flows Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 125 25 2016 Central 1 $ in millions Maritime Government Aviation Enterprise Services Total Revenue 575.3 330.5 142.6 144.6 16.6 1,209.6 Ligado revenue 119.4 119.4 Total revenue 575.3 330.5 142.6 144.6 136.0 1,329.0 Net operating costs 120.5 86.5 45.2 38.7 243.3 534.2 EBITDA 454.8 244.0 97.4 105.9 107.3 794.8 Depreciation and amortisation 349.4 2 Other 1.7 Operating profit 447.1 Net financing cost 147.9 Profit before tax 299.2 Taxation 55.8 Profit for the year 243.4 3 Cash capital expenditure 43.8 6.1 153.0 0.4 209.6 412.9 Financing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 36.1 4 Cash flow timing 37.2 Total capital expenditure 486.2 1 Enterprise excludes the disposals made during the first half of 2016 2 Other relates primarily to the share of profit from associates 3 Cash capital expenditure is the cash flow relating to tangible and intangible asset additions: it includes capitalised labour costs and excludes capitalised interest 4 Cash flow timing represents the difference between accrued capex and the actual cash flows SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS BY GEOGRAPHY The Groups operations are located in the geographical regions listed below.
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the billing address of the customer.
For wholesale customers, this is the distribution partner who receives the invoice for the service, and for retail customers this is the billing address of the customer for whom the service is provided.
Assets and capital expenditure are allocated based on the physical location of the assets.
2017 2016 Non-current Non-current segment segment $ in millions Revenue assets Revenue assets United Kingdom 78.9 870.9 99.9 958.2 Rest of Europe 430.8 852.3 369.9 659.0 North America 559.4 134.8 484.4 439.5 Asia and Pacific 246.1 120.2 279.9 83.2 Rest of the world 85.0 0.1 94.5 8.5 1 Unallocated 2,123.2 1,683.7 1,400.2 4,101.5 1,329.0 3,832.1 1 Unallocated items relate to satellites which are in orbit 12 126 6 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
OPERATING PROFIT Costs are presented by the nature of the expense to the Group.
Network and satellite operation costs comprise costs to third parties for network service contracts and services.
A breakdown of employee benefit costs is given in note 7.
Operating profit is stated after charging the following items: $ in millions Note 2017 2016 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 323.5 278.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 83.2 71.3 Restructuring costs 19.9 Loss on disposal of assets 7.3 0.7 Operating lease rentals: Land and buildings 13.8 14.8 Services equipment, fixtures and fittings 0.3 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 62.3 33.3 Write downs of inventories recognised as an expense 18 5.1 0.5 Research costs expensed 8.0 13.3 Remuneration payable to the Groups auditor Deloitte LLP and its associates in the year is analysed below: $ in millions 2017 2016 Audit fees: Annual audit of the Company 0.2 0.2 Annual audit of subsidiary companies 0.9 0.8 Total audit fees 1.1 1.0 1 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total audit and audit-related fees 1.2 1.1 Tax advisory services 0.1 2 Other services 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.2 Total auditors remuneration 1.2 1.3 1 Fees paid for audit-related assurance services refer to the half year and quarterly reviews of the Groups interim financial statements 2 Other services in 2016 relate to a corporate financing transaction 7.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS $ in millions Note 2017 2016 Wages and salaries 247.8 222.8 Social security costs 20.6 18.0 Share-based payments including employers national insurance contribution 16.2 15.8 Defined contribution pension plan costs 6.0 9.0 1 Defined benefit pension plan costs 28 2.0 1.9 1 Post-employment benefits costs 28 0.4 0.1 Employee benefit costs excluding restructuring charge 293.0 267.7 Restructuring charge 19.9 Total employee benefit costs 312.9 267.7 1 Defined benefit pension plan costs and post-employment benefits costs include current service cost and gain on curtailment for 2017 see note 28 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 127 27 EMPLOYEE NUMBERS The average monthly number of employees including the Executive Directors employed during the year: $ in millions 2017 2016 By activity: Operations 825 812 Sales and marketing 394 370 Development and engineering 250 223 Administration 385 357 1,854 1,762 1 By segment : Maritime 107 337 Government 199 189 Enterprise 65 72 Aviation 171 108 Central Services 1,312 1,056 1,854 1,762 1 As a result of an internal reorganisation in July 2016 certain employees were transferred between business units, the most significant being Maritime to Central Services The employee headcount numbers presented above refer to permanent full time and part time employees and exclude contractors and temporary staff.
Employee benefit costs of $30.1m 2016: $21.7m relating to contractors and temporary staff have been included in the cost table above.
KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION The Groups Executive and Non-Executive Directors are the key management personnel of the business.
Details of the total amounts earned during the year are as follows: $ in millions 2017 2016 Short-term benefits 3.8 3.9 1 Share-based payments 4.8 5.1 8.6 9.0 1 Includes employers national insurance or other social security contributions The Remuneration report contains full disclosure of Directors remuneration on pages 76 to 98.
In both the current and prior year, no Director has been a member of the Groups defined contribution pension plan.
NET FINANCING COSTS $ in millions 2017 2016 Bank interest receivable and other interest 6.5 4.3 Total financing income 6.5 4.3 Interest on Senior Notes and credit facilities 93.9 79.8 Interest on Convertible Bonds 37.5 33.6 Loss on redemption of 2017 Convertible Bonds 32.8 Amortisation of debt issue costs 7.9 8.2 Amortisation of discount on Senior Notes due 2022 1.0 1.0 Unwinding of discount on deferred satellite liabilities 0.4 0.6 Net interest on the net defined benefit asset and post-employment liability 1.9 0.4 Other interest 3.5 3.1 Financing costs 146.1 159.5 Less: Amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 40.2 36.1 Financing costs excluding derivative adjustments 105.9 123.4 1 Change in fair value of the derivative liability component of the Convertible Bonds 7.7 28.8 Net financing cost 91.7 147.9 1 For further details of the derivative liability component of the Convertible Bonds due 2023 please refer to note 19 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate to expenditures on such assets.
The average interest capitalisation rate for the year was 8.5% 2016: 7.4%.
12 128 8 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
TAXATION The tax charge for the year recognised in the income statement: $ in millions 2017 2016 Current tax: Current year 21.8 36.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.5 3.8 Total current tax 17.3 40.1 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 13.3 26.3 Adjustments due to reduction in corporation tax rates 9.1 0.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 7.8 10.3 Total deferred tax 30.2 15.7 Total taxation charge 47.5 55.8 The effective tax rate is 20.7% 2016: 18.6% and is reconciled below: $ in millions 2017 2016 Profit before tax 229.8 299.2 Income tax at 19.25% 2016: 20.00% 44.2 59.8 Differences in overseas tax rates 6.4 2.0 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 3.3 3.5 Adjustments due to reduction in the corporation tax rate 9.1 10.3 Impact of UK patent box regime 3.2 3.9 Impact of change in fair value of derivative liability component of Convertible Bond 1.5 5.8 Other non-deductible expenses non-taxable income 2.0 2.9 Total taxation charge 47.5 55.8 Tax credited directly to equity: $ in millions 2017 2016 Current tax charge on share-based payments 2.7 Deferred tax credit on share-based payments 0.2 3.2 Total tax credited directly to equity 0.2 0.5 Tax charged credit directly to other comprehensive income: $ in millions 2017 2016 Deferred tax credit relating to gains on cash flow hedges 0.1 Deferred tax charged credit on remeasurement of defined benefit asset and post-employment benefits 2.3 2.6 Total tax charged credited directly to other comprehensive income 2.3 2.7 11.
NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAIN LOSS $ in millions Note 2017 2016 Defined benefit plan and post-employment benefits 28 1.5 0.4 Other operating income 0.3 11.2 Total foreign exchange gain loss 1.2 10.8 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 129 29 12.
DIVIDENDS During 2017, the 2017 interim dividend of $98.6m 21.62 cents per ordinary share and the 2016 final dividend of $151.2m 33.37 cents per ordinary share were paid to the Companys shareholders.
For the 2017 interim dividend, the Group offered a scrip dividend election allowing shareholders to take their cash dividend entitlement in Inmarsat shares.
This option was taken up by shareholders holding approximately 63.3m shares 2016 interim dividend: 43.0m shares, representing 13.9% 2016 interim dividend: 9.5% of our issued share capital.
The scrip amounted to 1,617,973 new shares 2016 interim dividend: 946,283 new shares and 0.35% 2016 interim dividend: 0.21% of the issued share capital, which represented a $13.7m 2016 interim dividend: $8.9m cash dividend savings.
These shares were issued and made available for trading on 20 October 2017 2016 interim dividend: 21 October 2016.
For the 2016 final dividend, the Group offered a scrip dividend election allowing shareholders to take their cash dividend entitlement in Inmarsat shares.
This option was taken up by shareholders holding approximately 93.6m shares, representing 20.7% of our issued share capital.
The scrip amounted to 2,973,025 new shares and 0.66% of the issued share capital, which represented a $31.3m cash dividend savings.
These shares were issued and made available for trading on 26 May 2017.
The option of a scrip dividend election was not in place for the 2015 final dividend.
During 2016, the 2016 interim dividend of $91.8m 20.59 cents per ordinary share and the 2015 final dividend of $143.3m 31.78 cents per ordinary share were paid to the Companys shareholders.
The Inmarsat plc Board of Directors intends to recommend a final dividend of 12 cents per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 to be paid on 26 May 2018 to ordinary shareholders on the share register at the close of business on 21 April 2018.
$ in cents 2017 2016 Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 21.62 20.59 Final dividend per ordinary share 12.00 33.37 Total dividend per ordinary share 33.62 53.96 13.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Service equipment, Assets in the Freehold land fixtures and Space course of $ in millions and buildings fittings segment construction Total Cost: 1 January 2016 17.3 328.3 3,548.5 603.9 4,498.0 Additions 3.3 8.2 54.3 324.7 390.5 Disposals 7.6 1.2 8.8 1 Transfers from assets in the course of construction and reclassifications 15.8 51.0 66.8 31 December 2016 20.6 344.7 3,652.6 861.8 4,879.7 Additions 73.0 174.9 351.6 599.5 Disposals 226.7 99.9 0.9 327.5 1 Transfers from assets in the course of construction and reclassifications 64.2 565.6 629.8 31 December 2017 20.6 255.2 4,293.2 582.7 5,151.7 Accumulated depreciation: 1 January 2016 9.9 243.2 1,384.7 1,637.8 Charge for the year 0.6 46.6 230.9 278.1 Disposals 7.4 0.2 7.6 31 December 2016 10.5 282.4 1,615.5 1,908.3 Charge for the year 0.5 55.6 267.4 323.5 Disposals 216.8 99.9 316.7 31 December 2017 11.0 121.2 1,782.9 1,915.1 Net book amount at 31 December 2016 10.1 62.3 2,037.2 861.8 2,971.4 Net book amount at 31 December 2017 9.6 134.0 2,510.3 582.7 3,236.6 1 Reclassifications relate to movements between tangible and intangible asset categories throughout the year to align accounting policies across the Group 1 13 30 0 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives, as follows: Space segment assets: Satellites 1315 years Other space segment, including ground infrastructure 512 years Fixtures and fittings, and services-related equipment 315 years Buildings 50 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
At 31 December 2017 and 2016, the Group was carrying certain freehold land and buildings with a net book value of nil.
Had they been revalued on a market basis, their carrying amount at 31 December 2017 would have been $30.4m 2016: $33.2m.
Market valuation is based on the Directors best estimates.
In 2017 the Group received government grants in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
The grants have been deducted from the cost of the relevant asset to arrive at the carrying amount.
Government grants received in 2017 were $5.7m 2016: $3.1m.
Trademarks are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are between seven and 20 years.
The capitalised software includes the Groups billing system and other internally developed operational systems and purchased software, which are being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of three to eight years.
The Group capitalises costs associated with the development and enhancement of user terminals and associated network access costs as intangible assets and amortizes these over the estimated sales life of the related services, which range from five to ten years.
Customer relationships acquired in connection with acquisitions are being amortised over the expected period of benefit of between 12 and 14 years, using the straight-line method.
Orbital slots and licences relate to the Groups satellite programmes, and each individual asset is reviewed to determine whether it has a finite or indefinite useful life.
Amortisation of the GX programme finite life assets commenced when the Inmarsat-5 satellites went operational in December 2015.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 13 31 1 ANNUAL IMPAIRMENT REVIEW: GOODWILL Impairment reviews of goodwill are performed at the level of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs.
For the Group, these are considered to be the Maritime, Enterprise, Aviation, U. S. Government and Global Government business units.
The recoverable amount of each CGU has been determined based on value in use calculations.
The key assumptions used by management in these calculations are the cash flow projections, long-term growth rates and discount rates for each CGU.
The impairment review conducted annually has identified sufficient headroom in the recoverable value of each CGU above their carrying value.
A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken by changing key assumptions used for each CGU.
Based on this sensitivity analysis, no reasonably possible change in the assumptions resulted in the recoverable amount of the CGUs being reduced to their carrying value.
We do not anticipate any changes over the next 12 months that would result in the recoverable amount of the CGUs being reduced to their carrying value.
Key assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount of the CGUs were as follows: $ in millions Allocated goodwill Pre-tax discount rate Long-term growth rate Maritime 215.5 9.0% 2.0% Enterprise 54.8 9.0% 2.0% Aviation 46.4 9.0% 2.0% U. S. Government 50.6 9.0% 2.0% Global Government 54.8 9.0% 2.0% Total Group 422.1 Cash flow projections The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on the value in use, which is determined using cash flow projections derived from the most recent financial budgets and forecasts approved by management covering a five-year period.
The short and medium-term cash flows reflect managements expectations of future outcomes taking into account past experience, adjusted for anticipated growth from both existing and new business in line with our strategic plans for each segment of our business.
The cash flows also take into consideration our assessment of the potential impact of external economic factors.
Long-term growth rates A long-term growth rate has been applied to extrapolate the cash flows into perpetuity.
The growth rate has been determined using long-term industry growth rates and managements conservative expectation of future growth.
Discount rates The discount rates reflect the time value of money and are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for the risk associated with the CGUs.
The risk premium, when compared with the Group discount rate, was consistent across each of the CGUs given the similarities in exposure to economic and competitive conditions.
INVESTMENTS At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Interest in associates 15.1 13.2 Investments held at cost 1.1 Total investments 16.2 13.2 Interest in associates represents the Groups investments which have been treated as associates and have all been accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Individually, all of the investments in associates are deemed to be immaterial and as a result the associates assets, liabilities, revenues and profits have not been presented.
Cash dividends received from the associates for the year ended 31 December 2017 total $2.1m 2016: $1.3m.
The Groups aggregate share of its associates profits for the year is $4.0m 2016: $2.4m and has been recognised in the income statement.
Investments held at cost represents the Groups 0.6% investment in Actility S. A. which was made on 5 April 2017.
1 13 32 2 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and for the purposes of the cash flow statement also includes bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Cash at bank and in hand 109.9 50.7 Short-term deposits 377.0 606.3 Cash reclassified to short-term deposits with original maturity of greater than three months 342.0 395.0 Cash and cash equivalents 144.9 262.0 At 31 December 2017, the Group has $342.0m of cash held in short-term deposits with an original maturity of between three and 12 months 2016: $395.0m.
This amount is presented separately within current assets in the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions Note 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 144.9 262.0 Bank overdrafts 19 0.3 0.5 Net cash and cash equivalents 144.6 261.5 17.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Current: Trade receivables 197.8 210.3 Other receivables 25.4 34.9 1 Prepayments and accrued income 96.2 61.7 Total trade and other receivables 319.4 306.9 Non-current: Prepayments and accrued income 5.8 6.4 Defined benefit pension asset 18.1 4.5 Other receivables 0.8 Total other receivables 23.9 11.7 The Groups trade and other receivables are stated after allowances for doubtful debts.
Movements during the year were as follows: $ in millions 2017 2016 At 1 January 13.7 16.1 Charged to the provision in respect of the current year 9.7 11.4 Utilised in the year 4.2 2.1 Provision released in the year 6.7 11.7 2 At 31 December 12.5 13.7 1 The balance at year end includes prepayments of $43.5m 2016: $44.7m and accrued income of $52.7m 2016: $17.0m 2 The maturity of the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables for the year ended 31 December 2017 is $0.9m between one and 30 days overdue, $4.8m between 31 and 120 days overdue and $6.8m over 120 days overdue 2016: $1.4m between one and 30 days overdue, $3.4m between 31 and 120 days overdue and $8.9m over 120 days overdue The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables to approximate to their fair value.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 13 33 3 18.
INVENTORIES At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Finished goods 33.3 33.6 Work in progress 0.6 0.7 Total inventories 33.9 34.3 The Groups inventories are stated after allowances for obsolescence.
Movements in the allowance during the year were as follows: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 At 1 January 12.8 17.2 Charged to the allowance in respect of the current year 3.9 0.5 Released in the year 5.1 4.9 At 31 December 11.6 12.8 19.
The $700.0m facility signed in 2011 was available to be drawn down for four years and is now repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further 7.5 years.
Drawings under this facility incur interest at a fixed rate of 3.11% for the life of the loan.
In November 2014, the Group signed a seven-year $185.9m facility which has a total availability period of two years and is now repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further five years.
Drawings under this facility incur interest at a fixed rate of 1.96% for the life of the loan.
SENIOR NOTES DUE 2022 AND 2024 On 4 June 2014, the Group issued $1.0bn of 4.875% Senior Notes due 15 May 2022.
The aggregate gross proceeds were $992.1m, net of $7.9m issuance discount.
On 22 September 2016, the Group issued $400.0m of 6.5% Senior Notes due 1 October 2024.
SENIOR CREDIT FACILITY On 22 May 2015, the Group signed a five-year $500.5m revolving credit facility Senior Credit Facility.
Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to the applicable USD LIBOR, plus a margin of between 0.70% and 1.70% determined by reference to the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
At 31 December 2017, there were no drawings under the Senior Credit Facility.
1 13 34 4 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED CONVERTIBLE BONDS On 9 September 2016, the Group issued $650m of 3.875% Convertible Bonds due 9 September 2023.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and have a 3.875% p. a. coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 3.681%.
The bond is a net share settled instrument, meaning upon conversion the Group will repay the principal of $650m in cash and satisfy the remaining conversion value in ordinary shares if the market value of the Companys shares at settlement date exceeds the conversion price of $13.41 and the option is exercised by the Bondholder.
Upon issuance, in accordance with IAS 32 the instrument was bifurcated between a cash debt component and a derivative liability component, being $545.5m and $104.5m respectively.
The debt component meets the definition of net borrowings and over the term of the bond will accrete up to the principal value of $650.0m with the cost of that accretion recognised in net financing costs.
The derivative liability represents the value of the conversion rights associated with the instrument and is accounted for at fair value through profit and loss.
It is excluded from net borrowings with the mark-to-market movements recognised in net financing costs as this represents the movement in fair value of the derivative component of the bond.
$ in millions 2017 2016 Fair value of Convertible Bonds issued 650.0 650.0 Cost of issue 8.1 8.1 Net proceeds 641.9 641.9 Derivative liability component 104.5 104.5 Debt liability component at date of issue net of issue costs 537.4 537.4 Cumulative amortisation of debt issue costs to 31 December 2017 1.5 0.4 Cumulative interest charged to 31 December 2017 49.1 11.6 Cumulative coupon interest to 31 December 2017 33.0 7.9 Debt liability component at 31 December 2017 555.0 541.5 Fair value of derivative liability component at 31 December 2017 125.7 133.4 Fair value of Convertible Bond at 31 December 2017 680.7 674.9 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 6.8% to the liability component.
The total interest charge is split between the coupon interest charge of $33.0m and accreted interest of $16.1m, with both charges recognised in net financing costs in the income statement.
The coupon interest is paid semi-annually in March and September with the liability recognised in accrued interest note 20.
Similarly, the bonds accrete semi-annually in March and September with the liability recognised in borrowings.
The Directors consider the carrying value of borrowings, other than the Senior Notes, Convertible Bonds and the Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility to approximate to their fair value see note 31.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows: Effective interest rate % 2017 2016 Bank overdrafts 6.5% 3.8% Senior Notes due 2022 4.9% 4.9% Senior Notes due 2024 6.5% 6.5% Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility 3.1% 3.1% Ex-Im Bank 2014 Facility 3.6% 2.0% Deferred satellite payments 3.0% 3.8% Convertible Bonds due 2023 6.8% 6.8% Reconciliation of movements in liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities: At 31 Drawdowns Arrangement Other nonAt 31 December and Interest cost Movement in cash December 1 $ in millions 2016 repayments Cashflows Transfers expense amortisation Fair Value movements 2017 Short term borrowings 103.8 80.8 3.1 105.1 3.2 2.6 125.6 Long term borrowings 1,906.5 78.4 92.0 105.1 90.7 6.4 1,884.9 2 Convertible Bond 674.9 25.1 37.5 1.1 7.7 680.7 Total liabilities from financing activities 2,685.2 2.4 120.2 131.4 7.5 7.7 2.6 2,691.2 Cash and cash equivalents 262.0 144.9 Short term borrowings 395.0 342.0 Net debt 2,028.2 2,204.3 1 Transfers comprise debt maturing from long term to short term borrowings 2 Includes derivative liability component Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 13 35 5 20.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Current: Trade payables 210.5 133.8 Deferred consideration 0.5 Other taxation and social security payables 6.2 5.7 Other payables 4.5 11.2 1 Accruals and deferred income 363.4 357.1 Total trade and other payables 584.6 508.3 Non-current: Deferred consideration 0.2 Other payables 7.5 23.8 Defined benefit pension and post-employment liability 17.5 17.5 Total other payables 25.0 41.5 1 The deferred income balance includes $181.8m 2016: $197.8m relating to payments received from Ligado Networks.
During the current financial year, $16.0m 2016: $11.0m of these payments were released to the income statement The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to approximate to their fair value.
PROVISIONS Movements in the current portion of the Groups provisions were as follows: Current Non-current $ in millions provisions provisions Total At 1 January 2016 1.8 2.5 4.3 Charged in respect of current year 3.6 0.3 3.9 Utilised in current year 3.5 3.5 At 31 December 2016 1.9 2.8 4.7 Charged in respect of current year 21.8 6.9 28.7 Utilised in current year 7.5 7.5 At 31 December 2017 16.2 9.7 25.9 The Groups current provisions consist of a $16.0m restructuring provision along with $0.2m relating to Asset retirement obligations.
The associated cash flows in respect of the restructuring provision outstanding at 31 December 2017 are expected to occur within one year.
CURRENT AND DEFERRED TAXATION The current tax asset of $13.8m and current tax liability of $130.2m 2016: $8.5m and $129.0m, respectively, represent the tax payable in respect of current and prior periods less amounts paid.
RECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 for the year are shown below: At 31 December 2017 At 31 December 2016 $ in millions Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 25.8 230.9 205.1 32.7 198.4 165.7 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 27.8 27.8 33.7 33.7 Pension and post-employment benefits 0.2 1.1 0.9 2.0 2.0 Share options 1.5 1.5 3.8 3.8 Tax losses 20.4 20.4 15.9 0.5 15.4 Other 11.4 1.2 10.2 10.2 1.0 9.2 Net deferred tax liabilities 59.3 261.0 201.7 64.6 233.6 169.0 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
1 13 36 6 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The value of deferred income tax assets and liabilities included in the net deferred income tax balance is shown below: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets 35.6 39.3 Deferred tax liabilities 237.3 208.3 Net deferred tax liabilities 201.7 169.0 Movement in temporary differences during the year: Recognised At in other At 1 January Recognised Recognised comprehensive 31 December $ in millions 2017 in income in equity income 2017 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 165.7 39.4 205.1 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 33.7 5.9 27.8 Other 9.2 1.0 10.2 Pension and post-employment benefits 2.0 0.6 2.3 0.9 Share-based payments 3.8 2.1 0.2 1.5 Tax losses 15.4 5.0 20.4 Total 169.0 30.2 0.2 2.3 201.7 Recognised At in other At 1 January Recognised Recognised comprehensive 31 December $ in millions 2016 in income in equity income 2016 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 149.2 16.5 165.7 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 41.7 8.0 33.7 Other 9.7 0.7 0.2 9.2 Pension and post-employment benefits 0.5 0.1 2.6 2.0 Share-based payments 7.8 0.8 3.2 3.8 Tax losses 21.0 5.6 15.4 Total 152.9 15.7 3.2 2.8 169.0 Total unprovided deferred tax assets: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Unused income tax losses 2.4 34.1 Unused capital losses 23.0 24.2 Total 25.4 58.3 Overseas dividends received are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to foreign withholding taxes.
The unrecognised gross temporary difference in respect of the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such taxes is $nil 2016: $nil, resulting in a deferred tax liability of $nil 2016: $nil.
The Budget announced by the Chancellor on 16 March 2016 included changes to the main rates of corporation tax for UK companies.
The standard rate of corporation tax reduced to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017, and there will be a further reduction to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated taking account of the forecast impact of the reduction of the corporation tax rate from 20% to the substantively enacted rate of 17%.
On 22 December 2017 the U. S. President signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which included changes to the Federal tax rate.
The Federal tax rate reduced from 35% to 21% with effect from 1 January 2018.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated taking account of this reduction of the Federal tax rate.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 13 37 7 23.
RECONCILIATION OF CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash generated from operations: $ in millions 2017 2016 Profit for the year 182.3 243.4 Adjustments for: Taxation charge 47.5 55.8 Financing costs 105.9 123.4 Financing income 6.5 4.3 Mark-to-market valuation 7.7 28.8 Operating profit 321.5 447.1 Depreciation and amortisation 406.7 349.4 Loss on disposal of assets 7.3 0.7 Share of profit of associates 4.0 2.4 EBITDA 731.5 794.8 Dividends received from associates 2.1 1.3 Non-cash employee benefit costs 16.2 15.8 Forward exchange contracts 1.2 Non-cash foreign exchange movements 1.5 1.5 Changes in net working capital: 1 Decrease in restricted cash 0.2 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 25.6 19.0 Decrease Increase in inventories 0.4 9.3 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 33.7 13.6 Increase in provisions 14.6 Cash generated from operations 774.4 805.5 1 At 31 December 2017, the Group has $2.8m 2016: $2.8m of restricted cash on the balance sheet, the majority of which are funds held in escrow in relation to the disposal of SkyWave 24.
SHARE CAPITAL At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Authorised: 1,166,610,560 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2016: 1,166,610,560 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Allotted, issued and fully paid: 457,659,212 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2016: 452,062,811 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 During the year ended 31 December 2017, a total of 1,005,403 2016: 1,527,989 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company under its employee share schemes.
In addition, 2,973,025 ordinary shares and 1,617,973 ordinary shares 2016: nil and 946,283 of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company as part of the final 2016 and interim 2017 scrip dividend offering respectively.
No shares were repurchased during 2017 or 2016.
1 13 38 8 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTIONS AND AWARDS The Group operates a number of share plans used to award options and shares to Directors and employees as part of their remuneration packages.
In 2014, the Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan ESP was approved by shareholders and replaced the previous Executive Share Plans.
Share awards since May 2014 have been made in accordance with the new share plan rules.
Under the ESP, the Company can grant Bonus Share Awards BSA and Performance Share Awards PSA, which replicate the previous Bonus Share Plan BSP and Performance Share Plan PSP awards.
The costs of these awards are recognised in the income statement see note 7 based on the fair value of the awards on the grant date.
Further information on how these are calculated can be found on the next page and under Employee benefits in the principal accounting policies on page 120.
INMARSAT EMPLOYEES SHARE OWNERSHIP PLAN TRUST Under the legacy Staff Value Participation Plan the 2004 Plan, shares were transferred to the Inmarsat Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust resident in Jersey.
These options have now vested and expired, but some remaining shares are still held by the Trust and can be used to satisfy vesting under other existing share plans.
A summary of all share activity within the Trust as at 31 December 2017, is as follows: Shares available for $ in millions grant 1 Balance at 1 January 2017 138,086 Exercised Long-Term Incentive Plan and Performance Share Awards 60,810 Balance at 31 December 2017 77,276 Exercisable at 31 December 2017 77,276 1 Includes shares allocated within the Trust from the 2004 Plan BONUS SHARE AWARD Awards have been made regularly under the BSA to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Further information on awards granted to Directors can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 76 to 98.
Awards are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares.
The performance conditions attached to the BSA are non-market-based performance conditions.
Any dividends paid by the Company will accrue and be added as additional shares upon vesting.
Under the rules of the BSA, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention to generally satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares.
As the BSA provides non-contributory share awards that have an entitlement to dividends and no market-based performance conditions attached, the fair value of the awards is the value of the grant.
This is due to the fact that regardless of the market price at the time the award of shares is made, the total value of shares to be awarded excluding shares added in lieu of dividends will not change.
In June 2017, an award was granted under similar conditions to existing BSA schemes for one of the business units.
PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD The PSA makes regular annual awards to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Further information on awards granted to Directors can be found in the Remuneration Report.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of any dividends that are paid between the date of award and the date of vesting in the form of additional shares.
Any such additional shares are only added to the number of shares which will vest subject to performance conditions being satisfied.
The PSA shares will not ordinarily be transferred to participants until the third anniversary of the award date.
The transfer of shares is dependent upon performance conditions being satisfied over the three consecutive financial years starting in the financial year the award date falls.
The rules of the PSA provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention to satisfy the awards using newlyissued shares at the end of the relevant three-year period.
The performance conditions for the PSA are based on the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to constituents of the FTSE 50-150 and FTSE 350 Indices excluding investment trusts, depending upon the year of the award, and on EBITDA or revenue growth measured over a three-year period.
For the award made in 2014, the vesting schedule is structured so that 50% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR and 50% is linked to EBITDA, as individual performance measures.
The market-based performance condition has been incorporated into the fair value.
For the 2015, 2016 and 2017 awards, the vesting schedule has been restructured so that 30% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR for Executive Directors for any participants below Executive Director level this is linked to revenue growth over the three-year period of the awards, 30% is linked to EBITDA and 40% is linked to strategic objectives set out prior to the grant date of the scheme.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 13 39 9 The fair values and the assumptions used in the calculation of PSA awards vesting or due to vest in 2017 or after are as follows: Performance Share Awards Grant date 22 March 2017 23 March 2016 30 March 2015 Grant price 7.62 9.30 9.34 Exercise price nil nil nil Bad leaver rate 12% 12% 12% Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years Volatility 28.6% 22.5% 20.8% Fair value per share option Executive Director level 4.43 7.91 8.50 Fair value per share option below Executive Director level 7.63 9.43 9.41 Both the BSA and PSA share awards expire 10 years after date of grant or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may determine before the grant of an award.
For share awards outstanding at the period end the weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the BSA and PSA share awards at 31 December 2017 is 0.8 and 1.3 years, respectively.
UK SHARESAVE SCHEME AND INTERNATIONAL SHARESAVE PLAN The UK Sharesave Scheme is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme.
A grant made in June 2017 with an option price of 6.04 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% will mature in August 2020.
A grant made in June 2016 with an option price of 5.68 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% will mature in August 2019.
The International Sharesave Plan mirrors the operation of the UK Sharesave Scheme as closely as possible.
Participants are given either the opportunity to receive options in the same way as the UK Sharesave Scheme, or the spread between the share price at the date of exercise and the grant price, delivered at the Companys discretion in cash or shares.
It is the Companys intention to satisfy the awards using shares, some of which are held by the Trust and some of which will be newly-issued.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan expire after a maximum of 3.5 years following the initial savings payments having been made.
The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the current grant of the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan at 31 December 2017 is 2.1 years for each plan.
EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN The Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP is for U. S. and Canadian employees to purchase the Companys stock at a 15% discount using funds accumulated from monthly contributions.
A grant made under the scheme in December 2015 with an option price of 9.22 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 15% will mature in March 2018.
A grant made under the scheme in June 2017 with an option price of 7.16 reflecting the maximum discount permitted of 15% will mature in July 2019.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme, International Sharesave Plan and ESPP have been valued with a Black-Scholes model using the following assumptions: Sharesave Sharesave Scheme Scheme UK and UK and ESPP International International ESPP 14 December Grant date 6 June 2017 30 June 2016 6 June 2017 2015 Market price at date of grant 8.43 8.05 8.43 10.85 Exercise price 6.04 5.68 7.16 9.22 Bad leaver rate 3% pa 3% pa 3% pa 3% pa Vesting period 36 months 36 months 25 months 26 months Volatility 27.9% 24.6% 32.7% 20.4% Dividend yield assumption 5.1% 4.5% 5.0% 3.0% Risk-free interest rate 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.4% Fair value per option 1.93 1.85 1.61 1.74 14 140 0 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED UK SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN The UK Share Incentive Plan SIP has made several awards and is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme.
Arrangements exist which replicate the awards as closely as possible for eligible international employees, using the same market values per award as used by SIP.
RESERVES Cash flow hedge reserve: $ in millions 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January 23.3 0.9 Loss recognised on cash flow hedges: Forward exchange contracts 14.1 24.7 Reclassified and capitalised on the balance sheet: Forward exchange contracts 1.5 1.3 Reclassified to the income statement: Interest rate swaps 0.9 Tax charged related to amounts transferred to the income statement 0.1 Balance at 31 December 7.7 23.3 Gains and losses reclassified from equity into the income statement during the period are included in the following income statement lines.
$ in millions 2017 2016 Total net operating costs 0.9 Tax credit 0.1 Total credited to the income statement in the year 0.8 Gains and losses relating to the effective portion of cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and the cash flow hedge reserve.
When a hedged item is recognised in the income statement the cumulative deferred gain or loss in other comprehensive income and the cash flow hedge reserve is reclassified to the income statement.
When a hedged item is recognised as a non-financial asset or liability in the balance sheet the accumulated gain or loss is transferred from the cash flow hedge reserve and included in the initial measurement of its cost.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 141 41 27.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2017 has been calculated based on profit attributable to equity holders for the year and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
These represent share options and awards granted to employees under the employee share plans.
The convertible bonds due 2023 could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in the future, however these shares were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive in the period, as the contingent conditions associated to the bond had not been met.
$ in millions 2017 2016 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 181.7 242.8 Profit attributable to equity holders for diluted earnings per share 181.7 242.8 millions 2017 2016 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 454.8 449.7 Potentially dilutive ordinary shares 5.1 4.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 459.9 454.6 $ per share 2017 2016 Basic earnings per share 0.40 0.54 Diluted earnings per share 0.40 0.53 Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2017 has been calculated based on profit attributable to equity holders adjusted for the post-tax impact of the early repurchase of the 2017 convertible bonds 2016 amounts only, the impact of the movement in the fair value of the conversion liability component of the 2023 convertible bonds and the post-tax impact of restructuring costs.
$ in millions 2017 2016 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 181.7 242.8 Adjustment for: Decrease Increase in fair value of conversion of the liability component of 2023 convertible bonds 7.7 23.0 Loss on redemption of 2017 convertible bonds post-tax 26.2 Restructuring costs post-tax 16.1 1 Adjustable profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 190.1 292.0 millions 2017 2016 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 454.8 449.7 Potentially dilutive ordinary shares 5.1 4.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 459.9 454.6 $ per share 2017 2016 1 Basic earnings per share 0.42 0.65 1 Diluted earnings per share 0.41 0.64 1 The 2017 fair value of the conversion liability component of the convertible bond is a pre-tax figure, whereas the 2016 comparative is post-tax.
If we were to align 2016 to 2017, the adjusted profit attributable to equity holders would be 297.8 and basic and adjusted EPS would be $0.66 14 142 2 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
PENSIONS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates pension schemes in each of its principal locations.
The Groups pension plans are provided through both defined benefit schemes and defined contribution arrangements.
The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom, regulated by the Pensions Regulator, and The Netherlands.
The Groups principal defined benefit pension plan is the Inmarsat Global scheme, which is a UK funded scheme with assets held in a separate fund administered by a corporate trustee: the scheme is closed to new employees and the Company closed the defined benefit plan to future accruals during 2017.
The trustee is required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme.
The trustees of the pension schemes are responsible for the investment policy with regards to the assets of the fund.
The Group is required to ensure that the plan is fully funded where the future liabilities for benefits are covered by the funds assets.
The Group is also required to make employer contributions at 15% of the members salary to the fund assets.
The size of the asset that can be recognised as a result of a pension surplus should not exceed the recoverable amount and is restricted to the asset ceiling per IAS 19.
The Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan was valued using the projected unit credit method with the valuation undertaken by professionally qualified and independent actuaries as at 31 December 2017.
The results of the valuation, which have been updated for any material transactions and material changes in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest rates up to 31 December 2017, are set out below.
The Group also provides post-employment benefits for some of its employees.
The Groups principal scheme is the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme, which is the provision of healthcare to retired employees and their dependants who were employed before 1 January 1998.
Employees who have 10 years of service at the age of 58 and retire are eligible to participate in the post-retirement healthcare benefit plans.
Membership of this plan is multinational, although most staff are currently employed in the UK.
The plans are self-funded and there are no plan assets from which the costs are paid.
The cost of providing these benefits is actuarially determined and accrued over the service period of the active employee groups.
The Groups post-retirement medical liability is capped at CPI plus 1%.
Schemes denominated in local currencies are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate between US Dollars and local currencies.
The primary risk to which the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan exposes the Group is the risk arising through a mismatch between the plans assets and its liabilities.
This is primarily made up of a number of strategic investment risks.
The key strategic investment risks inherent in the current investment strategy are as follows: market risk the risk that investment returns on assets are lower than assumed in the actuarial valuation, thereby resulting in the funding level being lower than expected interest rate risk the risk that the assets do not move in line with the value placed on the liabilities in response to changes in interest rates inflation risk similar to interest rate risk but concerning inflation credit risk the risk that payments due to corporate bond investors may not be made active management risk the risk that active managers underperform the markets in which they invest, resulting in lower-than-expected investment returns and currency risk the risk that currency market movements adversely impact investment returns In addition to the investment-related risks, the plan is also subject to the risk that members live longer than expected, or that the financial assumptions used in valuing the liabilities are not borne out in practice.
This could lead to unexpected contributions from the Group being required to meet the benefit payments due.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the Groups pension and post-employment benefits liabilities under IAS 19 are: At At 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Weighted average actuarial assumptions: Discount rate 2.6% 2.7% Future salary increases 2.3% 3.2% Medical cost trend rate 3.2% 3.6% Future pension increases 2.9% 2.8% Mortality assumptions have been updated to reflect experience and expected changes in future improvements in life expectancy.
The average life expectancy assumptions for the Companys pension and post-employment benefits liabilities are as follows: Life Life expectancy expectancy 2017 2016 Male current age 65 88.8 88.6 Female current age 65 90.0 89.7 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 143 43 Mortality assumptions used are consistent with those recommended by the individual scheme actuaries and reflect the latest available tables, adjusted for the experience of the Group where appropriate.
For the Inmarsat Global defined benefit pension scheme and the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefits for 2017, mortality has been assumed to follow the SAPS tables with -1 year age rating for males and CMI 2013 improvement with a long-term trend of 1.5% p. a.
Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined benefit obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase, mortality and healthcare cost trend rates.
The sensitivity analysis below is for the Groups principal pension and post-employment benefits schemes, and has been determined based on reasonable possible changes of the assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period assuming that all other assumptions are held constant.
Inmarsat Global defined benefit scheme: Impact on Impact on benefit projected obligation pension cost increase increase Change in assumption $ in millions decrease decrease Increase in discount factor of 0.25% 5.5 0.2 Decrease in discount factor of 0.25% 5.9 0.2 Increase in inflation of 0.25% 5.9 0.2 Decrease in inflation of 0.25% 5.4 0.1 Mortality: -2 years for males and -1 year for females 2.9 0.1 Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme: Impact on benefit Impact on obligation service cost increase increase Change in assumption $ in millions decrease decrease Increase in discount factor of 0.5% 0.9 Increase in inflation of 0.5% 1.0 Increase in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 2.1 0.1 Decrease in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 1.7 0.1 In reality, there is an expectation of inter-relationships between the assumptions, for example, between discount rate and inflation.
The above analysis does not take the effect of these inter-relationships into account.
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet are: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations pension 126.5 135.9 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations pension 0.5 0.4 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations post-employment benefits 15.9 16.7 Fair value of defined benefit assets 143.5 140.0 Net defined benefit asset liability recognised in the balance sheet 0.6 13.0 The above net liability is recognised in the balance sheet as follows: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions Note 2017 2016 Defined benefit pension asset 17 18.1 4.5 Defined benefit pension and post-employment liability 20 17.5 17.5 14 144 4 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Analysis of the movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligations is as follows: PostDefined benefit employment $ in millions pension plan benefits At 1 January2016 109.9 17.0 Current service cost 1.7 0.1 Interest cost 3.6 0.6 Remeasurement losses: Actuarial loss arising from changes in financial assumptions 37.8 2.0 Foreign exchange gain 16.8 2.7 Benefits paid 0.9 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.0 At 31 December 2016 136.3 16.7 Current service cost 1.6 0.4 1 Past service cost 4.1 Interest cost 3.6 0.5 Remeasurement gains: Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 2.6 3.3 Foreign exchange loss 11.3 1.9 Benefits paid 19.5 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 0.4 At 31 December 2017 127.0 15.9 Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the assets of the defined benefit pension plans is as follows: $ in millions 2017 2016 At 1 January 140.0 127.6 Interest income 3.7 4.2 Remeasurement gains losses : Experience return on plan asset excluding interest income 7.2 25.6 Actuarial loss gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 0.4 0.8 Contributions by employer 1.0 1.5 Contributions by pension participants 0.3 1.0 Benefits paid 19.6 0.6 Expenses paid included in service cost 0.4 0.2 Foreign exchange gain loss 11.7 19.9 At 31 December 143.5 140.0 1 The Group Defined Benefit Pension Plan closed to further benefit accrual on 31 March 2017 and all former active members have now become deferred members.
This curtailment has resulted in a past service credit and decrease to the defined benefit obligation Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 145 45 Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the plans are as follows: 2017 2016 Defined PostDefined Postbenefit employment benefit employment $ in millions pension plan benefits pension plan benefits Current service cost 2.0 0.4 1.9 0.1 Past service gain 4.1 0.0 Net interest income expense 0.1 0.5 0.6 0.6 Foreign exchange gain loss 0.4 1.9 3.1 2.7 2.6 2.8 4.4 2.0 Current service cost is included within employee benefit costs note 7.
The net financing costs together with foreign exchange gains and losses are included within interest payable note 9.
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the plans are as follows: 2017 2016 Defined PostDefined Postbenefit employment benefit employment pension plan benefits pension plan benefits $ in millions Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 2.2 3.3 37.0 2.0 Actuarial gains arising from changes in experience adjustment 25.6 Return on plan asset excluding interest income 7.2 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit asset and liability 9.4 3.3 11.4 2.0 The assets held in respect of the Groups defined benefit schemes were as follows: At 31 December 2017 At 31 December 2016 Percentage Percentage Value of total plan Value of total plan $ in millions assets $ in millions assets Equities 30.7 21.4% 36.0 25.7% Cash 1.4 1.0% 1.6 1.1% Bonds 80.9 56.4% 78.5 56.1% Other 30.5 21.2% 23.9 17.1% Fair value of scheme assets 143.5 140.0 The Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan assets, which contribute over 93% of the total Group assets, are all invested in pooled investment funds, the majority of which are priced daily, except for the High Income UK Property, Liquid Alternative Strategies Alternatives and Multi Asset Credit funds which are priced monthly and the UCITS Alternative Strategies fund which is priced weekly.
With regard to private debt, the portfolio will be valued on an absolute basis, using the best efforts value on a quarterly basis.
Therefore, fund investments are primarily valued based on the market value capital account statements received from the underlying general partners of the underlying funds.
Capital account statements and unaudited financial statements are distributed approximately 90 days after each quarter.
The fund also distributes U. S. GAAP audited financials, including capital account statements, for each 31 December fiscal year-end around 30 June of the subsequent year.
The assets are split into two portfolios, the growth portfolio and the matching portfolio.
The assets within the growth portfolio are invested so as to achieve an appropriate level of growth above that of the plans liabilities, ensuring a sufficiently diversified portfolio of investments provides the plan with a variety of sources of return, without unduly exposing the plan to a single type of risk.
The assets within the matching portfolio are invested so as to minimise the level of unrewarded risk and ensure the portfolio broadly matches changes in the value of the plans liabilities.
This is achieved by investing in a range of pooled investment funds as outlined in the table above, with the allocation to each fund determined by a combination of the following: the nature of the plans liability structure, the target level of hedging deemed appropriate to reflect the Trustees risk tolerance and a fair value assessment of market levels.
Some of these funds achieve their objectives by utilising a range of bond or bond type instruments, resulting in leveraged exposure which enables the plan to match a greater proportion of its liabilities than would be possible by only holding physical securities.
Instruments utilised within the funds include fixed interest gilts, index-linked gilts, corporate bonds, gilt repos, interest rate swaps, inflation swaps and total return swaps.
The plan does not hold any direct investments in the Group: however, due to the pooled nature of the investment funds, there may be some indirect investment.
The duration of the defined benefit liabilities within the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan is approximately 26 years.
The defined benefit obligation as at December 2017 is split as follows: Active members 0% following the closure of the plan to future accrual effective 1 April 2017, all former active members have become deferred members Deferred members 90% Pensioner members 10% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 147 47 The average age of the active, deferred and pensioner members at the date of the last statutory funding valuation for the Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan 31 December 2014 was 54 years, 55 years and 68 years, respectively.
The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Inmarsat Global defined benefit pension plan during 2018 are $0.1m.
In 2017 actual contributions under this plan were $0.2m 2016: $0.7m.
Under the current Inmarsat Global defined benefit plan Recovery Plan and Schedule of Contributions there are no further contributions due in respect of the past service deficit revealed as part of the last statutory funding valuation as at 31 December 2014.
The current Schedule of Contributions requires the Company to pay 15% of pensionable salary in respect of the additional accrual of future benefits for members of the defined benefit tier of the Pensionbuilder section and any notional member contributions payable under the SMART arrangement.
Contributions in respect of the Defined Contribution tier and the Pensionsaver section are paid in addition.
The next statutory funding valuation of the plan will be carried out as at 31 December 2017.
As part of this, the Trustees and Company will be required to agree a pattern of contributions to cover any deficit revealed by the valuation, along with the rate payable for future accrual of benefits.
This could lead to an increase or decrease from the current level of contributions.
OPERATING LEASE AND OTHER COMMITMENTS The Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and other unrecognised contractual commitments are as follows: At 31 December 2017 At 31 December 2016 NonOther NonOther cancellable unrecognised cancellable unrecognised operating contractual operating contractual $ in millions leases commitments Total leases commitments Total Within one year 12.7 6.9 19.6 15.5 5.4 20.9 Within two to five years 46.6 40.3 86.9 50.5 36.4 86.9 After five years 29.3 0.4 29.7 72.1 0.8 72.9 88.6 47.6 136.2 138.1 42.6 180.7 Operating lease commitments primarily relate to leased office space, including the Groups head office located at 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX.
Other unrecognised non-cancellable contractual commitments relate to network service contracts and maintenance contracts, which have varying terms.
The total of future sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 December 2017 relating to the aforementioned head office lease is $0.1m over one year at 31 December 2016: $0.2m over one year.
In addition, the Group has the following purchase commitments, relating to future obligations to purchase space segment capacity: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Within one year 24.7 30.4 Within two to five years 11.5 5.8 36.2 36.2 The Group has various agreements deriving revenue from designated leased capacity and leased equipment.
These amounts are recorded as revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms and represent the majority of the Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expected to be received: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Within one year 28.7 23.3 Within two to five years 18.7 2.5 47.4 25.8 14 148 8 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The following table summarises the capital of the Group: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 As per balance sheet Cash and cash equivalents 144.9 262.0 Short-term deposits greater than three months 342.0 395.0 Borrowings 2,565.5 2,551.8 Net borrowings 2,078.6 1,894.8 Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent 1,254.7 1,239.7 Capital 3,333.3 3,134.5 The Groups objective when managing its capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group continually evaluates sources of capital and may repurchase, refinance, exchange or retire current or future borrowings and or debt securities from time to time in private or open-market transactions, or by any other means permitted by the terms and conditions of borrowing facilities and debt securities.
Additionally, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group uses a maximum ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA as an internal planning parameter and in regular forecasting and monitoring activities.
In addition, movements in cash and borrowings as well as total available liquidity are monitored regularly.
The net borrowings to EBITDA ratio for the year ended 31 December 2017 is 2.8 2016: 2.4.
The Groups liquidity is disclosed in note 3 d. No changes were made in the Groups objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the current or preceding year.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS TREASURY MANAGEMENT AND STRATEGY The Groups treasury activities are managed by its treasury department which reports into the Chief Financial Officer.
The treasury department operations are bound by the Board-approved treasury policy and related treasury operating manual.
The overriding objective of treasury activities is to manage financial risk.
Key features of treasury management include: ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations in appropriate currencies as they fall due maintaining adequate undrawn borrowing facilities and maximising return on short-term investments based on counterparty limits and credit ratings Treasury activities are only transacted with counterparties who are on the approved counterparty list approved by the Board.
The Groups foreign exchange policy is not to hedge its foreign currency transactions.
Where there is a material contract with a foreign currency exposure, a specific hedge to match the specific risk will be evaluated and must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer prior to any hedge being undertaken.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY The following table sets out the categorisation of financial assets and liabilities in terms of IAS 39: At 31 December 2017 At 31 December 2016 Derivatives Derivatives Loans and used for Loans and used for $ in millions receivables hedging Total receivables hedging Total Assets as per balance sheet 1 Trade receivables and other 275.3 275.3 250.7 250.7 Cash and cash equivalents 144.9 144.9 262.0 262.0 Derivative financial instruments 1.5 1.5 1.8 1.8 420.2 1.5 421.7 512.7 1.8 514.5 1 Consists of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income see note 17 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 149 49 At 31 December 2017 At 31 December 2016 Derivatives Fair value Other Derivatives Fair value Other used for through financial used for through financial $ in millions hedging profit and loss liabilities Total hedging profit and loss liabilities Total Liabilities as per balance sheet Borrowings 2,565.5 2,565.5 2,551.8 2,551.8 1 Trade payables and other 328.0 328.0 236.4 236.4 Derivative financial instruments 10.0 125.7 135.7 26.1 133.3 159.4 10.0 125.7 2,893.5 3,029.2 26.1 133.3 2,788.2 2,947.6 1 Consists of trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals see note 20 The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not significant.
At 31 December 2017 Less than Between Between Over $ in millions 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total 1 Borrowings 260.2 254.4 1,694.0 1,188.5 3,397.1 Trade payables and other 321.3 1.7 3.5 1.5 328.0 Derivative financial instruments 7.9 1.9 0.2 125.7 135.7 589.4 258.0 1,697.7 1,315.7 3,860.8 1 Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2022 and 2024, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations on those borrowings are at fixed rates for the term of the borrowing At 31 December 2016 Less than Between Between Over $ in millions 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total 1 Borrowings 223.6 219.3 216.7 2,741.5 3,401.1 Trade payables and other 213.2 17.9 3.9 1.4 236.4 Derivative financial instruments 5.9 16.9 3.2 133.4 159.4 442.7 254.1 223.8 2,876.3 3,796.9 1 Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2022 and 2024, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations on those borrowings are at fixed rates for the term of the borrowing FAIR VALUES OF DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups derivative financial instruments consist of forward foreign currency contracts which are primarily designated as cash flow hedges and the conversion liability component of the convertible bonds due 2023.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value see further below on the contract date and are re-measured at each reporting date.
The change in the fair value is accounted for differently depending on whether the instrument qualifies for hedge accounting eg where a forward foreign currency transaction is designated as a cash flow hedge or not eg undesignated cash flow hedges and the conversion liability component of the 2023 convertible bond.
Under hedge accounting, the change in fair value initially goes through other comprehensive income.
At the point hedge accounting is discontinued, ie when the hedging instrument expires, is exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, the amounts sitting in other comprehensive income are recycled to the income statement or, where appropriate, capitalised to the balance sheet.
Where hedge accounting does not apply, the change in fair value is included in net financing costs in the income statement.
15 150 0 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The fair values at the balance sheet date were: At At 31 December 31 December $ in millions 2017 2016 Financial assets: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash flow hedges 1.5 0.8 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 1.0 Total derivative financial assets 1.5 1.8 Current portion of derivative financial assets 1.2 1.7 Non-current portion of derivative financial assets 0.3 0.1 Financial liabilities: Conversion liability component of 2023 Convertible Bond 125.7 133.4 Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash flow hedges 9.9 23.9 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 0.1 2.1 Total derivative financial liabilities 135.7 159.4 Current portion of derivative financial liabilities 7.9 5.9 Non-current portion of derivative financial liabilities 127.8 153.5 The full value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts are based on the difference between the contract amount at the current forward rate at each period end and the contract amount at the contract rate, discounted at a variable risk-free rate at the period end.
The fair value of the conversion liability component of the Convertible Bonds due 2023 is determined as the difference between the market value of the Convertible Bond and the carrying amount of the liability component of the Convertible Bond.
Both are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
The Group has no financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to significant unobservable inputs, ie those that would be classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE The following tables set out the face value and fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2017 and 2016: At 31 December 2017 Maturing Maturing Maturing within between between Fair value Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts in millions Face value 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 Years US$ GBP contracts 105.2 87.6 13.7 3.8 9.0 CAD contracts CAD 30.9 CAD 20.1 CAD 7.8 CAD 3.0 0.9 At 31 December 2016 Maturing Maturing Maturing Fair value within between between Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts in millions Face value 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 Years US$ GBP contracts 124.1 24.8 81.8 17.5 24.5 CAD contracts CAD 50.5 CAD 22.2 CAD 17.5 CAD 10.8 0.3 The Group has entered into contracts to build the I-6 satellite.
The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts for terms equivalent to when the milestone payments fall due to hedge the exchange rate risk arising from these anticipated milestone payments, which are designated as cash flow hedges.
As at 31 December 2017, the aggregate amount of losses under forward foreign exchange contracts deferred in the cash flow hedging reserve relating to the exposure on these payments is $7.7m.
The milestone payments will take place at irregular periods throughout each year until 2021, at which time the related cash flow hedges deferred in equity will be reclassified to profit and loss.
NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Non-derivative financial assets consist of cash at bank, short-term investments, trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income.
Non-derivative financial liabilities consist of borrowings, trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 151 51 FAIR VALUE OF NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES With the exception of the Senior Notes, the Ex-Im Bank Facilities and the Convertible Bonds, the fair values of all non-derivative financial instruments approximate to the carrying value in the balance sheet.
The fair value of Senior Notes, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
The following methods and assumptions have been used to determine fair values: the fair values of cash at bank, overdrafts and short-term deposits approximate their carrying values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments see note 16 the fair value of trade and other receivables and payables, accrued income and costs, and deferred consideration approximate their carrying values see notes 17 and 20 respectively the carrying amount of deferred satellite payments represents the present value of future payments discounted, using an appropriate rate, at the period end.
This carrying amount approximately equals fair value see note 19 the Senior Notes due 2022 are reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs and net issuance premium of $5.1m and $4.5m, respectively see note 19.
The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2022 are based on the market price of the bonds and are reflected in the next table the Senior Notes due 2024 are reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs of $4.9m see note 19.
The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2024 are based on the market price of the bonds and are reflected in the next table the Ex-Im Bank Facilities are reflected in the balance sheet net of unamortised arrangement costs of $14.9m 2016: $18.6m.
The fair value of the 2011 facility has been based on the implicit interest rate of the 2014 facility see note 19 and the liability component of the Convertible Bonds is reflected in the balance sheet on an amortised cost basis, net of unamortised arrangement costs of $6.6m 2016: $7.7m see note 19.
The fair value of the Convertible Bonds is based on the market price of the bonds and is reflected in the table below At 31 December 2017 At 31 December 2016 Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value $ in millions amount amount amount amount Senior Notes due 2022 1,000.0 1,000.8 1,000.0 975.0 Senior Notes due 2024 400.0 408.1 400.0 408.3 Ex-Im Bank Facilities 630.9 639.7 633.4 649.4 Convertible Bonds due 2023 561.6 687.3 549.2 682.6 32.
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS The Group had authorised and contracted but not provided for capital commitments as at 31 December 2017 of $968.0m 2016: $972.2m.
These amounts primarily represent commitments in respect of the Groups I-6 satellite programmes.
The Group has not reported the split between tangible assets and intangible assets for these capital commitments, as the necessary information is not available and the cost to develop it would be excessive.
CONTINGENT LIABILITY In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, damages, fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, interest charges, reputational damage and other sanctions.
These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
In cases where the Group has an obligation as a result of a past event existing at the balance sheet date, and it is probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision will be recognised based on best estimates and management judgement.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of the obligation will only be confirmed by future events, or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had no material contingent liabilities.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE Since the balance sheet date there have been no other significant events which would require disclosure in the 31 December 2017 financial statements.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the normal course of operations the Group engages in transactions with its equity-owned investees Navarino UK and JSAT Mobile Communications Inc.
These transactions represent sales of airtime and equipment and are measured at the amounts exchanged.
Group revenue from the related parties for the 2017 financial year was $38.1m and $16.9m, respectively 2016: $33.1m and $18.2m, respectively.
The amount receivable from the related parties at 31 December 2017 was $12.6m and $1.7m, respectively 2016: $9.3m and $1.8m, respectively.
Amounts owing to the Executive as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 were $1.2m and relate to remuneration earned in the normal course of operations see note 8.
15 152 2 F Fina inanc ncial st ial St at at em em ee nts | Co nts | Co nso nso lida lidt a ed te fina d finnc an ial s cial s tat ta em tee m nts en ts IInmar nmars sa at t p plc | lc | A Ann nnual ual Re Rep por ort t an and d A Acc cco ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS At 31 December 2017, the Company had investments in the following subsidiaries and associates: Interest in Interest in issued issued ordinary ordinary share share capital at capital at Country of incorporation 31 December 31 December 1 Principal activity registered address key 2017 2016 Inmarsat Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Group Limited Holding company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance PLC Finance company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Global Limited Satellite telecommunications England and Wales A 100% 100% ISAT Global Xpress OOO Operating company Russian Federation X 100% 100% Inmarsat Brasil Limitada Dormant Brazil H 100% 100% Inmarsat Leasing Two Limited Satellite leasing England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat New Zealand Limited Operating company New Zealand U 100% 100% Inmarsat Services Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% PT ISAT Operating company Indonesia Q 100% 100% Inmarsat Communications Company LLC Operating company United Arab Emirates AC 49% 49% Inmarsat Group Holdings Inc. Operating company United States C 100% 100% ISAT US Inc. Operating company United States C 100% 100% Inmarsat Government Inc. Operating company United States C 100% 100% Stratos Government Services Inc. Operating company United States D 100% 100% Inmarsat Commercial Services Inc. Operating company United States D 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions US Inc. Operating company United States D 100% 100% Inmarsat Inc. Holding company United States E 100% 100% Inmarsat US Investments Limited Dormant England and Wales A 100% 100% Europasat Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Employment Company Limited Employment company Jersey T 100% 100% Inmarsat Trustee Company Limited Dormant England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Finance III Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Limited Holding company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Canada Inc. Operating company Canada B 100% 100% Stratos Holdings Cyprus Limited Holding company Cyprus K 100% 100% Stratos Gesellschaft fur  mbH.
Operating company Germany L 100% 100% Stratos Global Japan KK Holding company Japan S 100% 100% Stratos Investments BV Holding company The Netherlands V 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions B. V. Operating company The Netherlands V 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions SA PTY Limited Operating company South Africa Z 90% 90% Inmarsat Spain S. A.
Operating company Spain AA 100% 100% Inmarsat Hong Kong Limited Operating company Hong Kong N 100% 100% Inmarsat IP Company Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Hellas Satellite Services SA Satellite telecommunications Greece M 100% 100% Inmarsat Navigation Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Global Xpress Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat SA Operating company Switzerland AB 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Global Limited Operating company England and Wales A 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions AS Operating company Norway W 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Pte.
Limited Operating company Singapore Y 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions ehf.
Operating company Iceland O 51% 51% Inmarsat Australia Pty Limited Operating company Australia F 100% 100% Inmarsat KK Operating company Japan S 100% 100% Inmarsat Solutions Shanghai Co. Limited Operating company China J 100% 100% Inmarsat India Private Limited Operating company India P 100% 100% Inmarsat Licences Canada Inc. Holding company Canada B 100% 100% Flysurfer Columbia Operating company Columbia I 100% Flysurfer Peru S. A. C. Operating company Peru R 100% Navarino UK Limited Associate England and Wales AD 49% 49% JSAT Mobile Communications Inc.
Associate Japan G 26.67% 26.67% 1 For the list of registered addresses please refer to the next table In accordance with s479A of the Companies Act 2006, the following companies are exempt from the requirements relating to the audit of individual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017: Inmarsat Trustee Company Limited 03688399, Stratos Global Holdings Limited 04113448 and Inmarsat Employee Share Plan Trustees Limited 03669306.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I In nm ma ar rs sat at p pllc c | | A An nn nu ual al R Re ep po or rtt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 0117 7 FinaF nc inial st anciat al S em ta et nts | Co ements | C nsolo ida nsto ed lid fina atenc d fi ial s nan tat cia em l se ta nts tem ents 1 153 53 REGISTERED ADDRESS KEY Key Registered Address A 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX B 34 Glencoe Drive, Box 5754, Donovans Bus.
Park, Mount Pearl Newfoundland A1N 4S8, Canada C 874 Walker Road, Suite C, City of Dover fide 19904, United States D 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, New Castle fide, United States E 1101 Connecticut Avenue, N. W. Suite 1225 WA 20036, United States F Level 40, Governor Macquarie Tower, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia G Nisso Building #22 8F, Azabudai1-11-10, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106-0041, Japan H Av Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek 50, Suite 172, Room 7, 17th Floor, So Paulo, CEP 04543-000, Brazil I Cra.
71-52 Tower B 9th Floor, Bogota, DC, Colombia 110231 J 4th and 5th floors of No.
20-4, Ronghui Park, Yuhua Road, Area B, Tianzhu Airport Industrial Zone, Shunyi District, Beijing K 1, Lampousas, Nicosia, 1095, Cyprus L Aarberger Strasse 18, 12205, Berlin, Germany M 280 Kifisias Avenue, Halandri, 152 32, Greece N 19 Floor, Millennium Trade Centre, No.
56 Kwai Cheong Road, Kwai Chung, New Territories, Hong Kong O Hlarsmra 10, 201 Kpavogi P B-92, 9th Floor Himalaya House, K. G. Marg, New Delhi, 110001, India Q Panbil Residence 1st 2nd Floor, Jl.
Ahmad Yani, Muka Kuning Batam 29433, Indonesia R General Crdova N 313, Miraflores Lima 18, Per S Level 25 Ark Hills Sengokuyama Mori Tower, 1-9-10, Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 106-0032, Japan T 44 Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG, Jersey U Bell Gully, Lvl 22, Vero Centre, 48 Shortland Street, Auckland, New Zealand V Loire 158-160, 2491 AL, The Hague, Netherlands W Borgundfjordvegen 116, 6017 Alesund, 1504 lesund, Norway X Bld.
5, 13 Kasatkina Street, 129301, Moscow, Russian Federation Y 11 Lorong 3 Toa Payoh, #01-31, Jackson Square, 319579, Singapore Z Deloitte Place, The Woodlands, 20 Woodlands Drive, Woodmead, Sandton, Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa, 2052 AA Prncipe fide Vergara 73, 28006, Madrid, Spain AB Route fide Crassier 19, 1262, Eysins, Switzerland AC Al Maktoum Street, Al Reem Tower, Suite 402, P. O.
Box 27313, Dubai, UAE, United Arab Emirates AD Camburgh House, 27 New Dover Road, Canterbury, Kent CT1 3DN
