Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 175 Shareholder information Financial calendar Shareholder information on the internet and 2018  19 April Ex-dividend date for final 2017 ordinary dividend Our website www.
com provides a range of 20 April Final 2017 ordinary dividend record date information about the Company, our people and businesses and 24 May Annual General Meeting our policies on corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
It should be regarded as your first point of reference for information 24 May Ex-dividend date for July 2018 preference dividend on any of these matters.
The share price can also be found there.
25 May July 2018 preference dividend record date 1 July Preference dividend payable You can create a Share Portal account, through which you will 6 July Final 2017 ordinary dividend payable be able to access the full range of online shareholder services, 15 August Announcement of 2018 half-year results including the ability to: view your holdings and indicative share price and valuation: view movements on your holdings and your 4 October Ex-dividend date for interim 2018 ordinary dividend dividend payment history: register a dividend mandate to have 5 October Interim 2018 ordinary dividend record date your dividends paid directly into your bank account: change your 22 November Ex-dividend date for January 2019 preference dividend registered address: sign up to receive e-communications or 23 November January 2019 preference dividend record date access the online proxy voting facility: and download and print 30 November Interim 2018 ordinary dividend payable shareholder forms.
2019 The Share Portal is easy to use.
Please visit 1 January Preference dividend payable www.
Alternatively, you can email: Note Shareportal@caslink.
Unsolicited telephone calls Registrars In the past, some of our shareholders have received unsolicited All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters to receive corporate documents by email should, in the first from organisations or persons claiming or implying that they have instance, be directed to the Companys Registrars and clearly state some connection with the Company.
These are typically from your registered address and, if available, your shareholder reference overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to number.
Please write to: sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in Link Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, UK or overseas investments.
Shareholders are advised to be very Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from the wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount UK.
Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access oroffers of free reports on the Company.
If you are outside the UK, please call 44 0 371 664 If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: 0300.
Calls from outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 9.00 am to always ensure the rm is on the Financial Conduct Authority 5.30 pm, UK time, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
FCA Register and is allowed to give financial advice before Alternatively, you can email: enquiries@linkgroup.
do They can help you to: check your shareholding: register a change double-check the caller is from the rm they say they are ask of address or name: obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax for their name and telephone number and say you will call them voucher: record the death of a shareholder.
Check their identity by calling the rm using the contact Dividends and dividend reinvestment plan number listed on the FCA Register.
If there are no contact details Dividends may be paid directly into your bank or building society on the FCA Register or you are told that they are out of date, or account through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
if you have any other doubts, call the FCA Consumer Helpline on The Registrars can provide a dividend mandate form.
A dividend 0800 111 6768 reinvestment plan DRIP is offered which allows holders of ordinary if you are approached about a share scam, please visit the FCAs shares to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys shares ScamSmart website at www.
uk scamsmart where through a specially arranged share dealing service.
Full details of the you can access information about the various types of scam, DRIP and its charges, together with mandate forms, are available including share and boiler room fraud, see the FCAs Warning List atwww.
and reports on rms about whom consumers have expressed International payment service concerns.
Alternatively, you can call the FCA Consumer Helpline Shareholders outside the UK may elect to receive dividends see above.
If you use an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares direct into their overseas bank account, or by currency draft, or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial instead of by sterling cheque.
For further information, contact the Ombudsman Service or be eligible to receive payment under the Companys Registrars on 44 0 371 664 0391 from outside Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go wrong the UK or 0871 664 0385 from the UK.
Calls from outside the you should also report any approach to Action Fraud, UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are who are theUKs national fraud reporting centre at open Monday to Friday 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time, excluding www.
uk, or by calling 0300 123 2040. public holidays in England and Wales.
Alternatively, you can log on to www.
com and click on the link for International Payment Service.
com AR2017 176 Shareholder information continued Gifting shares to your family or to charity London Stock Exchange Codes To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, The London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List SEDOL codes are: please ask the Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
Alternatively, if you only have a small number of shares whose The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: Ordinary shares: value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider BBY: Preference shares: BBYB.
donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift registered charity no.
1052686, whose work Balfour Beatty supports.
Capital gains tax CGT For CGT purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour Any shares you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when Beatty plcs ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p per share.
possible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide range of other This has been adjusted for the 1 for 5 rights issue in June 1992, the UK charities.
Since ShareGift was launched, over 27m has been 2 for 11 rights issue in September 1996 and the 3 for 7 rights issue given to more than 2,600 charities.
in October 2009 and assumes that all rights have been taken up.
The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from the Consolidated tax vouchers Registrars.
For more information visit www.
Balfour Beatty issues a consolidated tax voucher annually Share dealing services to all shareholders who have their dividends paid direct to Link Asset Services a trading name of Link Market Services their bank accounts.
If you would prefer to receive a tax Trustees Limited provide a telephone and online share dealing voucher at each dividend payment date rather than annually, service for UK and EEA resident shareholders.
To use this service, please contact the Registrars.
A copy of the consolidated telephone: 0371 664 0445.
Calls are charged at the standard tax voucher may be downloaded from the Share Portal at geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United www.
Kingdom are charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are Enquiries open between 8.00 am 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and public holidays in England and Wales.
Alternatively, you can log on financial position should be made in writing to the Corporate to www.
Communications Department at the address shown below or Link Market Services Trustees Limited is authorised and regulated byemail to info@balfourbeatty.
by the Financial Conduct Authority and is also authorised to conduct Balfour Beatty plc Registered Ofce: 5 Churchill Place, Canary cross border business within the EEA under the provisions of the Wharf, London E14 5HU.
EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Forward-looking statements No representation or warranty is made that any of these statements This document may include certain forward-looking statements, or forecasts will come to pass or that any forecast results will be beliefs or opinions, including statements with respect to Balfour achieved.
Forward-looking statements speak only as at the date Beatty plcs business, financial condition and results of operations.
of this document and Balfour Beatty plc and its advisers expressly These forward-looking statements can be identied by the use disclaim any obligations or undertaking to release any update of, of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, or revisions to, any forward-looking statements in this document.
estimates, plans, anticipates, targets, aims, continues, No statement in the document is intended to be, or intended expects, intends, hopes, may, will, would, could to be construed as, a profit forecast or profit estimate or to be or should or in each case, their negative or other various or interpreted to mean that earnings per Balfour Beatty plc share comparable terminology.
These statements are made by the for the current or future financial years will necessarily match or Balfour Beatty plc Directors in good faith based on the information exceed the historical earnings per Balfour Beatty plc share.
As a available to them atthe date of this report and reect the Balfour result, you are cautioned not to place any undue reliance on such Beatty plc Directors beliefs and expectations.
By their nature, forward-looking statements.
these statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
A number of factors could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, developments in the global economy, changes in UK and US government policies, spending and procurement methodologies, failure in Balfour Beattys health, safety or environmental policies and those factors set out under Principal risks on pages 51 to 56 of this document.
Follow us on: Twitter @balfourbeatty LinkedIn linkedin.
com company balfour-beatty-plc Facebook facebook.
com balfourbeatty Find out more about our investor relations at: www.
com investors Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar Printed in England by Pureprint Group The paper used in the report contains 100% recycled content, of which 100% is fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All of the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free process ECF.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using its pureprint environmental printing technology, with vegetable inks used throughout.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company.
Both the manufacturing mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certied.
Balfour Beatty 5 Churchill Place Canary Wharf London E14 5HU Telephone: 44 0 20 7216 6800 www.
com Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc
