18 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 In focus One unique operating model Real-time customer satisfaction We work to an overarching risk surveys inform a programme of appetite and single Group lending continuous improvement.
NPS 62 policy spanning all our brands and We benchmark our processes against deliver our services with the aim of industry best practice, challenging what providing an excellent customer up 3 we do and eliminating customer pain experience.
We put customers points as they arise.
investing in developing skills that enable highly efficient service management, matching those to business needs both Integrated multi-brand approach in India and the UK.
We capitalise on our cross-company expertise, operating under a common Investment in infrastructure operating framework that supports our and systems key lending brands.
Distribution, sales We aim to deliver efficient, scalable and and risk processes operate under resilient infrastructure to support our a simple, coordinated management business strategy objectives.
We invest structure giving us the ability to in complementary systems, both present our multiple lending brands proprietary and industry standard, to with great efficiency.
deliver excellent service measured against peers by industry experts, We work to an overarching risk appetite outstanding resilience and strong and a single Group lending policy governance.
OSB focuses on being a spanning all our brands, using our nimble bank with very few legacy issues.
experience in specialist lending to enhance policy.
We ensure that risks are We continue to invest in IT security, modelled and that the comprehensive supported by market leading data risk pricing model reflects latest market security and resilience experts.
This modelling ensures all product pricing goes through We will continue to leverage the same rigorous analysis, according to infrastructure investment across the core principles set by our Group Assets Group in 2018, maximising customer and Liabilities Committee, comprised of and efficiency benefits.
We will also senior management.
ensure infrastructure and systems are regularly reviewed and tested, focusing Cost-efficient operations on their security and resilience in Our administrative functions, based in cooperation with industry experts with our wholly-owned subsidiary OSBIndia, particular focus on cyber security.
support the strategic intent of delivering excellent customer experience.
We drive continuous customer-focused improvement through our flexible and cost-effective operating platform, putting customer needs first.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 19 Our strategy in action Put customer service at the heart of everything that we do We worked hard in 2017 Extend activity in to deliver great customer OSBI, developing satisfaction as evidenced in high quality areas our NPS scores.
However, we of excellence are not resting on our laurels.
We always want to improve customer satisfaction even further.
So we look at all areas of our business.
For example, staff retention is really important to us.
We invest a lot in NITIN JOSHI HEAD OF OPERATIONS training both new staff OSBI members and also longerserving employees of OSBI, continually refreshing and Not resting enhancing their knowledge, on our laurels skills and capability.
