We undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews Environmental expenditure take account of revised cost assumptions, changes in $million decommissioning requirements and any technological developments.
2017 2016 2015 Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are Environmental expenditure usually established on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 relating to the Gulf of Mexico 5,452 oil spill Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Operating expenditure 441 487 521 Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions Capital expenditure 487 564 733 appear in Financial statements Note 21.
Clean-ups 22 27 34 Environmental expenditure relating to the Gulf of Additions to environmental 249 262 305 remediation provision Mexicooil spill For full details of all environmental activities in relation to the Gulf of Increase decrease in 228 804 972 decommissioning provision Mexico oil spill, see Financial statements Note 2.
Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, Regulation of the groups business treatment or elimination of air and water emissions and solid waste is often not incurred as a separately identifiable transaction.
Instead, it BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, forms part of a larger transaction that includes, for example, normal pipelines and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals operations and maintenance expenditure.
The figures for production, trading, biofuels, wind and shipping activities, are environmental operating and capital expenditure in the table are conducted in 70 countries and are subject to a broad range of EU, US, therefore estimates, based on the definitions and guidelines of the international, regional and local legislation and regulations, including American Petroleum Institute.
legislation that implements international conventions and protocols.
These cover virtually all aspects of BPs activities and include matters Environmental operating expenditure of $441 million in 2017 2016 such as licence acquisition, production rates, royalties, environmental, $487 million showed an overall decrease of 9% which was primarily health and safety protection, fuel specifications and transportation, due to lower expenditures associated with BP's share of the TAPS trading, pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes and foreign exchange.
Environmental capital expenditure in 2017 was lower overall than in Upstream contractual and regulatory framework 2016, largely due to lower spend as a result of the completion of the The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under installation of the new LPG refrigeration plant for the North Sea which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
Forties Pipeline System in the previous year and lower spend on These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or Kuparuk field in Alaska driven by lower activity.
entered into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled company and are sometimes entered into with private property Clean-up costs decreased to $22 million in 2017 compared with $27 owners.
Arrangements with governmental or state entities usually million in 2016, primarily due to decreased contractual rates and take the form of licences or production-sharing agreements PSAs, overall cost reductions.
The numbers of oil spills are broadly similar although arrangements with the US government can be by lease.
and while the volume of oil has increased, this includes releases to Arrangements with private property owners are usually in the form of secondary containment which do not reach the environment.
In addition to operating and capital expenditure, we also establish Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for and provisions for future environmental remediation work.
Under a licence, the holder bears the against such provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods and is risk of exploration, development and production activities and not included in environmental operating expenditure reported for such provides the financing for these operations.
In principle, the licence periods.
holder is entitled to all production, minus any royalties that are Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up payable in kind.
A licence holder is generally required to pay is probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably production taxes or royalties, which may be in cash or in kind.
Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal typically, BP may explore for and exploit hydrocarbons under a plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive service agreement with the host entity in exchange for sites.
reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather than The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation production.
and abatement programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
They PSAs entered into with a government entity or state-owned or often depend on the extent of contamination, and the associated controlled company generally require BP alone or with other impact and timing of the corrective actions required, technological contracting companies to provide all the financing and bear the risk feasibility and BPs share of liability.
Though the costs of future of exploration and production activities in exchange for a share of the programmes could be significant and may be material to the results production remaining after royalties, if any.
of operations in the period in which they are recognized, it is not In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration and expected that such costs will be material to the groups overall results production activities, and in some cases production licences are of operations or financial position.
limited to only a portion of the area covered by the original exploration Additions to our environmental remediation provision was similar to licence.
Both exploration and production licences are generally for a prior years and also reflects scope reassessments of the remediation specified period of time.
In the US, leases from the USgovernment plans of a number of our sites in the US and Canada.
The charge for typically remain in effect for a specified term, but may be extended environmental remediation provisions in 2017 included $8 million in beyond that term as long as there is production in paying quantities.
respect of provisions for new sites 2016 $7 million and 2015 $6 The term of BPs licences and the extent to which these licences may million.
be renewed vary from country to country.
In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oil and gas BP frequently conducts its exploration and production activities in producing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual joint arrangements or co-ownership arrangements with other decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production international oil companies, state-owned or controlled companies facility, a provision is established that represents the discounted value and or private companies.
These joint arrangements may be of the expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
incorporated or unincorporated arrangements, while the coIn 2017, the net decrease in the decommissioning provision, similar to ownerships are typically unincorporated.
Whether incorporated or the decrease in 2016, was a result of detailed reviews of expected unincorporated, relevant agreements set out each partys level of future costs, partially offset by increases to the asset base.
participation or ownership interest in the joint arrangement or coownership.
Conventionally, all costs, benefits, rights, obligations, BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 265 See Glossary liabilities and risks incurred in carrying out joint arrangement or cowith a further goal with a floor of $100billion to be set before 2025. ownership operations under a lease or licence are shared among the On 1 June 2017, the US announced that it will withdraw from the joint arrangement or co-owning parties according to these agreed Paris Agreement.
This includes suspending the implementation of the ownership interests.
Ownership of joint arrangement or co-owned USs NDC and funding for the Green Climate Fund.
The process for property and hydrocarbons to which the joint arrangement or cowithdrawal can be completed no earlier than 4 November 2020. ownership is entitled is also shared in these proportions.
To the extent The United Nations climate change conference in Marrakech that any liabilities arise, whether to governments or third parties, or as COP22, held in November 2016, agreed a deadline of 2018 for between the joint arrangement parties or co-owners themselves, countries to agree on the guidelines and rules that are needed to each joint arrangement party or co-owner will generally be liable to support implementation of the Paris Agreement.
At COP23, held in meet these in proportion to its ownership interest.
In many upstream November 2017 in Bonn, the parties met to continue the negotiations: operations, a party known as the operator will be appointed amongst other things, the parties agreed to launch the 2018 Talanoa pursuant to a joint operating agreement to carry out day-to-day Dialogue to review collective efforts in relation to progress towards operations on behalf of the joint arrangement or co-ownership.
The the Paris Agreement objectives and to inform the preparation of operator is typically one of the joint arrangement parties or a coNDCs, and to convene stocktakes on pre-2020 implementation and owner and will carry out its duties either through its own staff, or by ambition at COP24 and 25. contracting out various elements to third-party contractors or service More stringent national and regional measures relating to the providers.
BP acts as operator on behalf of joint arrangements and cotransition to a lower carbon economy can be expected in the future.
ownerships in a number of countries where it has exploration and These measures could increase BPs production costs for certain production activities.
products, increase compliance and litigation costs, increase demand Frequently, work including drilling and related activities will be for competing energy alternatives or products with lower-carbon contracted out to third-party service providers who have the relevant intensity, and affect the sales and specifications of many of BPs expertise and equipment not available within the joint arrangement or products.
Further, such measures could lead to constraints on the co-owning operators organization.
The relevant contract will production and supply and access to new reserves, particularly due to specify the work to be done and the remuneration to be paid and will the long term nature of many of BPs projects.
Current and typically set out how major risks will be allocated between the joint announced measures and developments potentially affecting BPs arrangement or co-ownership and the service provider.
Generally, the businesses include the following: joint arrangement or co-owner and the contractor would respectively allocate responsibility for and provide reciprocal indemnities to each United States other for harm caused to and by their respective staff and property.
In the US, the Obama administration adopted its Climate Action Plan Depending on the service to be provided, an oil and gas industry in 2013 and had been using existing statutory authority to implement service contract may also contain provisions allocating risks and that plan, including the Clean Air Act CAA and the Mineral Leasing liabilities associated with pollution and environmental damage, Act MLA.
On 28 March 2017 the Trump administration issued damage to a well or hydrocarbon reservoirs and for claims from third Executive Order EO 13783 rescinding major elements of the Climate parties or other losses.
The allocation of those risks vary among Action Plan, and instructing the Environmental Protection Agency contracts and are determined through negotiation between the EPA to review and then commence the process of suspending, parties.
revising or rescinding certain regulations, including the Clean Power Plan and the EPA new source methane rule.
EO 13783 also instructed In general, BP incurs income tax on income generated from the Department of Interior DOI to review and possibly suspend, production activities whether under a licence or PSA.
In addition, revise or rescind the Bureau of Land Management BLM methane depending on the area, BPs production activities may be subject to a rule.
The EPA and the DOI are taking steps to implement these range of other taxes, levies and assessments, including special aspects of EO 13783 and legal challenges have been brought by petroleum taxes and revenue taxes.
The taxes imposed on oil and gas some US states and private parties regarding these proposed production profits and activities may be substantially higher than changes.
those imposed on other activities, for example in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Egypt, Norway, the UK, the US, Russia and Trinidad& Tobago.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions are currently regulated in a number of ways under the CAA.
As noted above, as a result of EO Greenhouse gas regulation 13783, some of these regulations may be suspended, revised or In December 2015, nearly 200 nations at the United Nations climate rescinded resulting in complex compliance challenges for our change conference in Paris COP21 agreed the Paris Agreement, for affected businesses.
The agreement came into force on Stricter GHG regulations, stricter limits on sulphur in fuels, 4November 2016.
For the first time this agreement applies to all emissions regulations in the refinery sector and a revised lower countries, both developing and developed, although in some ambient air quality standard for ozone, finalized by the EPA in instances allowances or flexibilities are provided for developing October 2015, are affecting our US operations.
The Paris Agreement aims to hold global average EPA regulations aimed at methane emissions are in place for temperature rise to well below 2 C above pre-industrial levels and to new and modified sources and the BLM has issued methane pursue efforts to limit temperature rise to 1.5 C above pre-industrial levels.
There is no quantitative long-term emissions goal.
However, regulations for existing sites located on federal lands.
The Trump administration is seeking to rescind both of these rules but the countries aim to reach global peaking of greenhouse gas GHG timing of any rescission is subject to legal challenges and emissions as soon as possible and to undertake rapid reductions regulatory requirements.
thereafter, so as to achieve a balance between human caused emissions by sources and removals by sinks of GHGs in the second It is possible that EPA will be required by statute to propose half of this century.
The Paris Agreement commits all parties to regulations on existing sources of methane from onshore oil and submit Nationally Determined Contributions NDCs i. e. pledges or natural gas sector activities, unless the EPA new source plans of climate action and pursue domestic measures aimed at methane rule is revised or rescinded.
achieving the objectives of their NDCs.
Developed country NDCs States may also have separate, stricter air emission laws in should include absolute emission reduction targets, and developing addition to the CAA.
Despite the US withdrawal from the Paris countries are encouraged to move over time towards them.
The Paris Agreement, a number of US states, cities and private Agreement places binding commitments on countries to report on organizations remain committed to meeting Paris Agreement their emissions and progress made on their NDCs and to undergo goals.
A number of states also belong to or are considering international review of collective progress.
It also requires countries joining carbon trading markets e. g. California.
to submit revised NDCs every five years, which are expected to be more ambitious with each revision.
Global assessments of progress The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and will occur every five years, starting in 2023.
In the decision adopting Security Act of 2007 impose a renewable fuel mandate the federal the Paris Agreement, an earlier commitment by developed countries Renewable Fuel Standard as well as state initiatives that impose to mobilize $100billion a year by 2020 was extended through 2025, low GHG emissions thresholds for transportation fuels currently 266 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary adopted in California, through the California Low Carbon Fuel to higher carbon costs.
EU Energy efficiency policy is currently Standard and Oregon.
implemented via national energy efficiency action plans and the Energy Efficiency Directive adopted in 2012.
EPA regulations impose light, medium and heavy duty vehicle emissions standards for GHGs and permitting requirements for The EU Fuel Quality Directive affects our production and marketing certain large GHG stationary emission sources.
California and a of transport fuels.
Revisions adopted in 2009 mandate reductions number of other states impose different, stricter GHG emission in the life cycle GHG emissions per unit of energy and tighter limits on vehicles.
These varying standards impact BPs product mix environmental fuel quality standards for petrol and diesel.
In October 2014 the EU also agreed to the 2030 Climate and Under the GHG mandatory reporting rule GHGMRR, annual Energy Policy framework with a goal of at least a 40% reduction in reports on GHG emissions must be filed.
In addition to direct GHGs from 1990 and measures to achieve a 27% share of emissions from affected facilities, producers and importers renewable energy and a 27% increase in energy efficiency.
The exporters of petroleum products, certain natural gas liquids and GHG reduction target is to be achieved by a 43% reduction of GHG products are required to report product volumes and notional emissions from sectors covered by the EU ETS, and a 30% GHG GHG emissions as if these products were fully combusted.
reduction by Member States for all other GHG emissions.
While the European Commission has made legislative proposals, including On 9 October 2017 the EPA announced its intention to repeal the proposed amended targets, specific EU legislation and agreements Clean Power Plan CPP which was an important element of the required to achieve these goals are still under discussion in the Obama administrations Climate Action Plan.
The CCP regulations European Council and European Parliament.
are currently stayed pending resolution of existing legal challenges: the EPA may decline to defend certain of these legal challenges.
European regulations also establish passenger car performance The EPAs repeal proposal is likely to face legal challenges as well standards for CO2 tailpipe emissions European Regulation EC and repeal of the CPP regulations, or adoption of a narrower No443 2009.
By 2021, the European passenger fleet emissions replacement rule, may not occur until well after 2018.
The outcome target for new vehicles will be 95 grams of CO2 per kilometre.
This with respect to these rules will affect electricity generation target will be achieved by manufacturing fuel efficient vehicles and practices and prices, reliability of electricity supply, and regulatory vehicles using alternative, low carbon fuels such as hydrogen and requirements affecting other GHG emission sources in other electricity.
In addition, vehicle emission test cycles and vehicle type sectors and have potential impacts on combined heat and power approval procedures are being updated to improve accuracy of installations.
In June 2016 the EPA finalized rules aimed at limiting methane European vehicle CO2 emission regulations also impact the fuel emissions from new and modified sources in the oil and natural efficiency of vans.
By 2020, the EU fleet of newly registered vans gas sector in the US by 40-45% from 2012 levels by 2025 that must meet a target of 147 grams of CO2 per kilometre, which is would apply to existing sources in the sector.
In January 2017 the 19% below the 2012 fleet average.
BLMs methane rule, aimed at limiting methane emissions from oil In addition, the Energy Efficiency Directive EED, Industrial and gas operations on federal lands also came into effect.
Emissions Directive IED 2010, Medium Combustion Plants Following the Trump administrations EO 13783, on 16 June 2017 Directive MCPD 2015 and EU regulation on ozone depleting the EPA proposed a two-year stay of portions of the methane substances 2009 ODS Regulation referenced below under Other regulations for new and modified oil and gas sources.
In December environmental regulation will also directly or indirectly require 2017, the BLM proposed a 13 month delay of its methane rule.
In reductions in GHG emissions.
February 2018, a federal court in California ruled against that 13 Other month delay.
Also in February 2018, the BLM proposed to revise its methane rule.
The final outcome of the rule revisions and legal Canadas highest emitting province, Alberta, has regulations challenges with respect to implementation of EO 13783 regarding targeting large final emitters sites with over 100,000 tonnes of these EPA and BLM rules is uncertain, but may affect our US carbon dioxide equivalent per annum with intensity targets of 2% upstream businesses management of methane emissions in the improvement per year up to 20%.
Compliance is possible via direct US.
reductions, the purchase of offsets or the payment of C$30 tonne to a technology fund.
In addition, the Alberta government A number of states, municipalities and regional organizations have implemented an economy-wide price of carbon policy that covers responded to current and proposed federal changes in emissions not in the scope of the existing regulations for large final environmental regulation and a number of additional state and emitters C$20 tonne in 2017: C$30 tonne in 2018 then escalating regional initiatives in the US will affect our operations.
The in line with Federal backstop pricing.
Changes were also made to California cap and trade programme started in January 2012 and electricity generation sources, limits on overall oil sands emissions, expanded to cover emissions from transportation fuels in 2015, and and sector specific  performance the State of Washington adopted a carbon cap rule in 2017. standards have been set such that compliance requirements will now be based on emission intensity relative to top quartile European Union performance in each sector.
Compliance obligations, if required, The EU has agreed to an overall GHG reduction target of 20% by can be satisfied through emission reductions, payments to the 2020.
To meet this, a Climate and Energy Package of regulatory government or use of offsets.
The Canadian federal government measures was adopted that includes: a collective national has announced climate change policy goals including a national reduction target for emissions not covered by the EU Emissions backstop carbon price starting at C$10 tonne in 2018 and escalating Trading System EU ETS Directive: binding national renewable to C$50 tonne by 2022 or equivalent system for provinces with energy targets to double usage of renewable energy sources in the cap-and-trade systems, with implementation of the price and EU, including at least a 10% share of renewable energy in the associated large emitters pricing system modelled on the Alberta transport sector under the Renewable Energy Directive a revision  system, use of any funds generated and to which was proposed by the European Commission in November outcome reporting being managed by each province.
2016 : a legal framework to promote carbon capture and storage China is operating emission trading pilot programmes in five cities CCS : and a revised EU ETS Phase 3.
EU ETS revisions included a and two provinces and some selected non-pilot provinces have also GHG reduction of 21% from 2005 levels: a significant increase in been approved to engage in emission trading.
One of BP's allowance auctioning: an expansion in the scope of the EU ETS to subsidiaries and one of BPs joint venture companies in China are encompass more industrial sectors including the petrochemicals participating in these schemes.
A plan on establishing the sector and gases: no free allocation for electricity generation nationwide carbon emissions trading market covering power including that which is self-generated off-shore or production, but sector only was promulgated in December 2017 by the National sector benchmarked free allocation for all other installations, with Development and Reform Commission, which will not supersede sharply declining allocation for sectors deemed not exposed to the above seven pilot programmes immediately but allow those carbon leakage.
EU ETS revisions also included the adoption of a pilot schemes to be incorporated into the national scheme Market Stability Reserve to adjust the supply of auctioned gradually.
In July 2016, China carried out pilot programmes on allowances.
This will take effect in 2019 and could potentially lead BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 267 See Glossary compensation for and trading of energy quotas in four provinces streamline the NEPA process although the effect of EO 13807 on which may be further expanded in or after 2020.
In January 2017, a our operations remains uncertain.
nationwide pilot scheme on the issuance and voluntary purchase The CAA regulates air emissions, permitting, fuel specifications and trading of renewable energy green power certificates was and other aspects of our production, distribution and marketing launched and it is expected that the evaluation on renewable activities.
energy power quotas and mandatory trading of green power The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and certificates will be launched in 2018.
Security Act of 2007 affect our US fuel markets by, among other China has also adopted more stringent vehicle tailpipe emission things, imposing the limitations discussed above under standards and vehicle efficiency standards to address air pollution Greenhouse gas regulation.
California also imposes Low Emission and GHG emissions.
These standards will have an impact on Vehicle LEV and Zero Emission Vehicle ZEV standards on vehicle transportation fuel product mix and overall demand.
These regulations will have an impact on fuel China has also introduced a mandate for sales of new energy demand and product mix in California and those states adopting vehicles NEVs commencing in 2020.
This will accelerate NEV LEV and ZEV standards.
The EPA is currently reassessing the penetration into the light vehicle sector and impact light fuel Obama Administrations mid-term evaluation MTE of the 2022-25 demand.
automobile fuel economy CAFE standards.
A reassessment of the standards could change original equipment manufacturer OEM For information on the steps that BP is taking in relation to climate compliance plans and consequently motor fuel demand.
The EPA is change issues and for details of BPs GHG reporting, see expected to complete its assessment in April 2018.
Sustainability Climate change on page 50.
The Clean Water Act regulates wastewater and other effluent Other environmental regulation discharges from BPs facilities, and BP is required to obtain discharge permits, install control equipment and implement Current and proposed fuel and product specifications, emission operational controls and preventative measures.
controls including control of vehicle emissions, climate change The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act regulates the programmes and regulation of unconventional oil and gas extraction generation, storage, transportation and disposal of wastes under a number of environmental laws may have a significant effect associated with our operations and can require corrective action at on the production, sale and profitability of many of BPs products.
locations where such wastes have been disposed of or released.
There are also environmental laws that require BP to remediate and The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and restore areas affected by the release of hazardous substances or Liability Act CERCLA can, in certain circumstances, impose the hydrocarbons associated with our operations or properties.
These entire cost of investigation and remediation on a party who owned laws may apply to sites that BP currently owns or operates, sites that or operated a site contaminated with a hazardous substance, or it previously owned or operated, or sites used for the disposal of its arranged for disposal of a hazardous substance at a site.
BP has and other parties waste.
See Financial Statements Note 21 for incurred, or is likely to incur, liability under CERCLA or similar state information on provisions for environmental restoration and laws, including costs attributed to insolvent or unidentified parties.
BP is also subject to claims for remediation costs under other A number of pending or anticipated governmental proceedings federal and state laws, and to claims for natural resource damages against certain BP group companies under environmental laws could under CERCLA, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 discussed result in monetary or other sanctions.
Group companies are also below and other federal and state laws.
CERCLA also requires subject to environmental claims for personal injury and property notification of releases of hazardous substances to national, state damage alleging the release of, or exposure to, hazardous and local government agencies, as applicable.
The costs associated with future environmental Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act requires remediation obligations, governmental proceedings and claims could notification of releases of designated quantities of certain listed be significant and may be material to the results of operations in the hazardous substances to state and local government agencies, as period in which they are recognized.
We cannot accurately predict the applicable.
effects of future developments, such as stricter environmental laws The Toxic Substances Control Act TSCA regulates BPs or enforcement policies, or future events at our facilities, on the manufacture, import, export, sale and use of chemical substances group, and there can be no assurance that material liabilities and and products.
In June 2016, the US enacted legislation to costs will not be incurred in the future.
For a discussion of the groups modernize and reform TSCA.
The EPA has promulgated rules, environmental expenditure, see page 265. processes and guidance to implement the reforms.
Key components of the reform legislation include: 1 a reset of the A significant proportion of our fixed assets are located in the US and TSCA chemical inventory, 2 new chemical management the EU.
US and EU environmental, health and safety regulations prioritization efforts expanding risk assessment and risk significantly affect BPs operations.
Significant legislation and management practices, 3 new confidentiality provisions, and regulation in the US and the EU affecting our businesses and 4 new authority for the EPA to impose a fee structure.
In 2017, the profitability includes the following: EPA finalized details regarding the process and requirements for United States execution of the TSCA inventory reset.
BP is currently collecting Since taking office in January 2017, the Trump administration has the requisite information for submission to the EPA to assure that issued a number of Executive Orders EO intended to reform the the chemical substances that are: i contained in our manufactured federal permitting and rulemaking processes to reduce regulatory or imported products: ii used to manufacture our products: and burdens placed on manufacturing generally and the energy industry iii used in our operations, continue to be included in the US TSCA specifically.
These EOs immediately rescind certain policies and inventory.
procedures and order the commencement of a broad process to The Occupational Safety and Health Act imposes workplace safety identify other actions that may be taken to further reduce these and health requirements on BP operations along with significant regulatory requirements.
It is not clear how much or how quickly process safety management obligations, requiring continuous these regulatory requirements will be reduced given statutory and evaluation and improvement of operational practices to enhance rulemaking constraints and the likely legal challenges to some of safety and reduce workplace emissions at gas processing, refining these initiatives.
In 2016 the Obama administration The National Environmental Policy Act NEPA requires that the announced that the US Occupational Safety and Health federal government gives proper consideration to the environment Administration OSHA would implement a National Emphasis prior to undertaking any major federal action that significantly Program set of inspections aimed at refineries and petrochemical affects the environment, which includes the issuance of federal facilities.
The Trump administration has not made any permits.
The environmental reviews required by NEPA can delay announcement regarding its intentions for this program.
State law analogues to NEPA could also limit or delay our The US Department of Transportation DOT regulates the transport projects.
On 15 August 2017 the Trump administration issued EO of BPs petroleum products such as crude oil, gasoline, 13807 which directs federal agencies to take certain actions to petrochemicals and other hydrocarbon liquids.
268 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary The Maritime Transportation Security Act and the DOT Hazardous together with the submission of relevant hazard and risk data.
REACH affects our manufacturing or trading import operations in Materials HAZMAT regulations impose security compliance the EU.
Since coming into force in 2007, REACH implementation regulations on certain BP facilities.
has followed a phase-in schedule defined by the EU.
The final OPA 90 is implemented through regulations issued by the EPA, the phase-in implementation deadline requires registration of USCoast Guard, the DOT, the OSHA, the Bureau of Safety and substances manufactured or imported in the tonnage-band of 1-100 Environmental Enforcement and various states.
Alaska and the tonnes per annum per legal entity by 31May 2018.
BP is in the West Coast states currently have the most demanding state process of preparing and submitting registration dossiers to meet requirements.
this final REACH implementation milestone.
For higher tonnageThe Outer Continental Shelf Land Act, the MLA and other statutes band substances i. e. 100 tonnes per annum or greater, BP give the Department of Interior DOI and the BLM authority to maintains compliance by checking whether imports are covered by regulate operations and air emissions on offshore and onshore the registrations of non-EU suppliers representatives, preparing operations on federal lands subject to DOI authority.
New stricter and submitting registration dossiers to cover new manufactured regulations on operational practices, equipment and testing have and imported substances, and updating previously submitted been imposed on our operations in the Gulf of Mexico and registrations as required.
Some substances registered previously, elsewhere following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
including substances supplied to us by third parties for our use, are The Endangered Species Act and Marine Mammal Protection Act now subject to evaluation and review for potential authorization or protect certain species from adverse human impacts.
The species restriction procedures, and possible banning, by the European and their habitat may be protected thereby restricting operations or Chemicals Agency and EU member state authorities.
In addition, development at certain times and in certain places.
With an BPs facilities and operations in several EU countries have increasing number of species being protected, we have increasing undergone REACH compliance inspections by the competent restrictions on our activities.
authority for the respective EU member state.
European Union The EU Offshore Safety Directive was adopted in 2013.
Its purpose The Energy Efficiency Directive EED was adopted in 2012.
It is to introduce a harmonized regime aimed at reducing the potential environmental, health and safety impacts of the offshore requires EU member states to implement an indicative 2020 oil and gas industry throughout EU waters.
The Directive has been energy saving target and apply a framework of measures as part of implemented in the UK primarily through the Offshore Installations a national energy efficiency programme, including mandatory Offshore Safety Directive Safety Case etc.
This directive has been implemented in the UK by the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme Regulations The Water Framework Directive WFD published in 2000 aims to 2014, which affects our offshore and onshore assets.
The protect the quantity and quality of ground and surface waters of ISO50001 standard is being implemented by organizations in some the EU member states.
The ongoing implementation of the WFD EU states to meet some elements of the EED.
A revision to the and the related Environmental Quality Standards Directive 2008 as EED was proposed by the European Commission in November well as the planned review of the WFD in 2019 is likely to require 2016, which includes a new energy efficiency target for 2030. additional compliance efforts and increased costs for managing freshwater withdrawals and discharges from BPs EU operations.
The Industrial Emissions Directive IED 2010 provides the framework for granting permits for major industrial sites.
It lays Regulations governing the discharge of treated water have also been down rules on integrated prevention and control of air, water and developed in countries outside of the US and EU.
This includes soil pollution arising from industrial activities.
As part of the IED regulations in Trinidad and Angola.
In Trinidad, BP is upgrading its framework, additional emission limit values are informed by sector water treatment facilities to meet consent levels agreed with the specific and cross-sector Best Available Technology BAT regulators to apply water discharge rules arising from the Certificate Conclusions, such as the BAT Conclusions for the refining sector, of Environmental Clearance CEC Regulations 2001 and associated for large combustion plants as well as common waste water and Water Pollution Rules 2007.
In Angola, BP has upgraded produced waste gas treatment and management systems in the chemical water treatment systems to meet revised oil in water limits for sector.
These may result in requirements for BP to further reduce produced water discharge under Executive Decree ED97-14 its emissions, particularly its air and water emissions.
The Medium Combustion Plants Directive MCPD came into force on 18December 2015, with a deadline for implementation by Environmental maritime regulations member states of 19December 2017.
It applies to air emissions of BPs shipping operations are subject to extensive national and sulphur dioxide SO2, nitrogen oxides NOx and particulates from international regulations governing liability, operations, training, spill the combustion of fuels in plants with a rated thermal input prevention and insurance.
These include: between one and 50MW.
It also includes requirements to monitor Liability and spill prevention and planning requirements governing, emissions of carbon monoxide CO from such plant.
Its among others, tankers, barges and offshore facilities are imposed requirements will be phased in the emission limit values set in by OPA in US waters.
It also mandates a levy on imported and the Directive will apply from 20December 2018 for new plants and domestically produced oil to fund oil spill responses.
Some states, by 2025 or 2030 for existing plants, depending on their size.
including Alaska, Washington, Oregon and California, impose The National Emission Ceiling Directive 2016 entered into force on additional liability for oil spills.
Outside US territorial waters, BP 31 December 2016, replacing earlier legislation.
It introduces Shipping tankers are subject to international liability, spill response stricter emissions limits from 2020 and 2030, with new indicative and preparedness regulations under the UNs International national targets applying from 2025.
The new Directive must be Maritime Organization IMO, including the International implemented by EU member states by 1 July 2018.
Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, the The EU regulation on ozone depleting substances 2009 ODS International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships Regulation requires BP to reduce the use of ozone depleting MARPOL, the International Convention on Oil Pollution, substances ODSs and phase out use of certain ODSs.
BP Preparedness, Response and Co-operation and the International continues to replace ODSs in refrigerants and or equipment in the Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage.
In EU and elsewhere, in accordance with the Montreal Protocol and April 2010, the Hazardous and Noxious Substance HNS Protocol related legislation.
The Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol 2010 was adopted to address issues that have inhibited ratification which aims to reduce hydrofluorocarbons will come into force of the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for from 1 January 2019.
In addition, the EU regulation on fluorinated Damage in Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious GHGs with high global warming potential the F-gas Regulations Substances by Sea 1996.
As at 31December 2017, as the required require a phase-out of certain hydrofluorocarbons, based on global minimum number of contracting states had not been achieved, the warming potential.
HNS Convention had not entered into force.
The EU Registration, Evaluation Authorization and Restriction of A global sulphur cap of 0.5% will apply to marine fuel from January Chemicals REACH Regulation 2006 requires registration of 2020 under MARPOL.
In order to comply, ships will either need to chemical substances manufactured in or imported into the EU, BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 269 See Glossary
