consume low sulphur marine fuels or implement approved Legal proceedings abatement technology to enable them to meet the low sulphur emissions requirements whilst continuing to use higher sulphur Proceedings relating to the Deepwater Horizon oil fuel.
This new global cap will not alter the lower limits that apply in spill the sulphur oxides Emissions Control Areas established by the IMO.
Introduction Ships are required to have ballast water treatment systems in place BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP was lease operator of within the time frame prescribed by the International Convention Mississippi Canyon, Block 252 in the Gulf of Mexico Macondo, for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and where the semi-submersible rig Deepwater Horizon was Sediments 2004, which entered into force in September 2017. deployed at the time of the 20 April 2010 explosions and fire and The Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of resulting oil spill the Incident.
Lawsuits and claims arising from the North-East Atlantic OSPAR, entered into force in March 1998, the Incident have generally been brought in US federal and state is an international convention which aims to protect the marine courts.
environment of the North-East Atlantic.
OSPAR has 16 contracting Many of the lawsuits in federal court relating to the Incident were parties, including the UK Government.
Work carried out in consolidated by the Federal Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation accordance with OSPAR is managed by the OSPAR Commission, into two multi-district litigation proceedings, one in federal district which is made up of government representatives of the 15 court in Houston for the securities, derivative and Employee contracting parties and the European Union.
OSPAR Retirement Income Security Act ERISA cases MDL 2185 and Recommendation 2001 1 relates to the management of produced another in federal district court in New Orleans for the remaining water from offshore installations in the North Sea.
A Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC was Commission has set a target of a 15% reduction in the total established to act on behalf of individual and business plaintiffs in quantity of oil in produced water discharged, and more recently, MDL 2179.
All federal and state claims in relation to the Incident have guidelines for the implementation of a risk-based approach to the now been settled or dismissed and the five-year probation period management of produced water discharges from offshore under the criminal plea agreement with the US Department of Justice installations were adopted OSPAR Recommendation 2012 5. came to an end in January 2018.
The remaining proceedings arising The EUshipping monitoring, reporting and verification MRV from the Incident are discussed below.
For further details of the regulation entered into force in July 2015 and is aimed at gathering consent decree and settlement agreement with the United States data onCO emissions based on ships fuel consumption.
It is 2 federal government and five Gulf Coast states, see Legal considered the first step of a staged approachfor the inclusion of proceedings in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015. maritime transport emissionsin the EUs GHG reduction commitment.
In parallel, through amendments to MARPOLAnnex PSC settlements VI, the IMO Data Collection System DCS for collecting and PSC settlements Economic and Property Damages Settlement analysing fuel consumption data is due to come into effect in Agreement March 2018.
The Economic and Property Damages Settlement resolved To meet its financial responsibility requirements, BP Shipping certain economic and property damage claims.
It also resolved maintains marine pollution liability insurance in respect of its operated property damage in certain areas along the Gulf Coast, as well as ships to a maximum limit of $1billion for each occurrence through claims for additional payments under certain Master Vessel mutual insurance associations P&I Clubs, although there can be no Charter Agreements entered into in the course of the Vessels of assurance that a spill will necessarily be adequately covered by Opportunity Program implemented as part of the response to the insurance or that liabilities will not exceed insurance recoveries.
The economic and property damages claims process is under court supervision through the settlement claims process established by the Economic and Property Damages Settlement.
This provides that class members release and dismiss their claims against BP not expressly reserved by that agreement.
The final deadline for filing all claims was 8 June 2015.
Following numerous court decisions, on 31 March 2015 the district court denied the PSCs motion seeking to alter or amend a revised policy, addressing the matching of revenue and expenses for business economic loss claims, which required the matching of revenue with the expenses incurred by claimants to generate that revenue, even where the revenue and expenses were recorded at different times.
The PSC appealed this decision and, on 22 May 2017, the Fifth Circuit issued an opinion upholding the policy in part and reversing the policy in part.
The Fifth Circuit ordered that the portion of the policy upheld, which covers the substantial majority of the remaining business economic loss claims, be applied as the governing methodology for all applicable business economic loss claims.
On 25 May 2017, 13 June 2017, and 5 July 2017, the district court issued a series of orders instructing the court supervised settlement programme on how to implement the Fifth Circuits opinion.
On 10 August 2017, the district court denied BPs motion to clarify or reconsider its orders.
BP appealed all of these orders and decisions on 8 September 2017 and that appeal has been consolidated with four appeals filed by claimants in early to mid-September 2017.
Those four claimant appeals also challenge the same set of district court orders and decisions, albeit raising different issues than are raised by BPs appeal.
These appeals are currently pending before the Fifth Circuit.
On 17 March 2017, the district court issued an order regarding approximately 150 claimants in the economic and property damages claims process whose claims had been subject to a 270 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary hold pending the development of agreed-upon guidance that the physically damaged by oil, and whether they worked as claims administrator shall apply in making compensation commercial fishermen, by 5 April 2017.
On 19 July 2017 the district determinations that adhere to the moratoria exclusion in the court issued an order finding that 215 plaintiffs, who had complied Economic and Property Damages Settlement.
The court ordered with the courts previous orders, had also complied with the that those claimants with claims remaining in moratoria hold courts 22 February 2017 order.
The district court held that those without a resolution of their claims had the opportunity to opt that plaintiffs' claims would be subject to further proceedings in MDL claim out from the claims process by 24 April 2017 and pursue 2179 under OPA 90 and under general maritime law.
The court the claim in litigation.
On 19 July 2017 the district court issued an dismissed with prejudice all other claims for economic loss order finding that 13 plaintiffs validly opted claims out of brought by private plaintiffs under general maritime law and moratoria hold and complied with the relevant court order, and certain of these plaintiffs moved for reconsideration.
On 8 that those plaintiffs claims under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 November 2017, the district court denied most of the motions for OPA 90 would be subject to further proceedings in MDL 2179 reconsideration of the 19 July 2017 order but granted in part see Other civil complaints - economic loss below.
several of the motions, ruling that an additional six plaintiffs had complied with the 22 February 2017 order regarding general As a result of significantly higher average claims determinations maritime law claims and thus that their claims under general issued by the court supervised settlement programme in the maritime law were not dismissed.
The district court also ruled that fourth quarter of 2017 and the continuing effect of the May 2017 an additional five plaintiffs had complied with previous of the Fifth Circuit opinion, the provision for the costs associated with courts orders but not the 22 February 2017 order regarding the Economic and Property Damages Settlement was increased general maritime law claims and thus would be subject to further in the fourth quarter of 2017.
The amounts ultimately payable may proceedings in MDL 2179 on their claims under OPA 90, but not differ from the amount provided and the timing of payments is their claims under general maritime law.
Five groups of plaintiffs uncertain.
For more information about BPs current estimate of whose motions were denied by the 8 November 2017 order filed the total cost of the Economic and Property Damages appeals in the Fifth Circuit, and those appeals remain pending.
Settlement, see Financial statements Note 2.
Other civil complaints personal injury PSC settlements Medical Benefits ClassAction Settlement On 18 July 2017, the district court in MDL 2179 issued an order The Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement Medical identifying 960 plaintiffs whose claims for post-explosion cleanSettlement involves payments to qualifying class members up, medical monitoring and personal injury claims occurring after based on a matrix for certain Specified Physical Conditions the Incident will be subject to further proceedings in MDL 2179.
SPCs, as well as a 21-year Periodic Medical Consultation The court dismissed with prejudice any other private plaintiffs Program PMCP for qualifying class members, and also includes post-explosion clean-up, medical monitoring and personal injury provisions regarding class members pursuing claims for laterclaims and certain of these plaintiffs moved for reconsideration.
On 6 December 2017, the district court denied most of the The deadline for submitting SPC and PMCP claims was 12 motions for reconsideration, granting some in part, and certain February 2015.
The Medical Claims Administrator has reported groups of plaintiffs whose motions were denied have appealed the total number of claims submitted is 37,225.
As of 26 January the order to the Fifth Circuit.
Accordingly the vast majority of 2018, 27,592 claims comprising 22,796 SPC and 4,796 PMPC post-explosion clean-up, medical monitoring and personal injury only have been approved for compensation totalling claims from individuals that either opted out of the 2012 approximately $67 million: 9,546 claims have been denied: and settlement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee and or were 87 claims are pending determination.
In addition, there are 16 excluded from that settlement have been dismissed.
pending lawsuits brought by class members claiming LMPCs.
MDL 2185 and other securities-related litigation For further details of the Medical Settlement, see Legal proceedings Since the Incident, shareholders have sued BP and various of its in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015. current and former officers and directors asserting shareholder derivative claims and class and individual securities fraud claims.
Other civil complaints economic loss Many of these lawsuits have been consolidated or co-ordinated in Following various court orders by the district court in MDL 2179 in federal district court in Houston MDL 2185.
2016, the vast majority of economic loss and property damage claims from individuals and businesses that either opted out of Securities class action the 2012 settlement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee and Following various legal proceedings, a class of post-explosion ADS or were excluded from that settlement have either been resolved purchasers from 26 April 2010 to 28 May 2010 was certified, and in or dismissed.
However, several groups of plaintiffs whose claims June 2016, BP agreed with plaintiffs representatives to settle the were dismissed by the district court have four appeals pending in class claims for $175 million, subject to approval by the court.
The the Fifth Circuit, and briefing of those appeals is currently parties filed the settlement agreement and other papers in support of underway.
In addition, on 22 March 2017, BP moved to dismiss approval with the court on 15 September 2016 and a class notice was the claims of certain plaintiffs with economic loss claims on the issued on 14 November 2016.
On 13 February 2017 the court granted grounds that they had previously released their claims or had final approval of the class settlement, and all settlement payments failed to meet the OPA 90 requirement that plaintiffs present their were made in 2017. claims to the Responsible Party prior to filing suit.
On 21 September 2017, the district court granted in part BPs motion Individual securities litigation regarding presentment and, on 20 October 2017, the district court From April 2012 to April 2016, 37 cases were filed in state and federal granted in part BPs motion regarding release: certain of the courts by pension funds, investment funds and advisers against BP plaintiffs have brought appeals challenging these orders.
On 11 entities and several current and former officers and directors seeking January 2018, the district court issued an order requiring all damages for alleged losses those funds suffered because of their remaining plaintiffs in MDL 2179 with economic loss or property purchases and or holdings of BP ordinary shares and, in certain cases, damage claims to file by 11 April 2018 a verified sworn statement ADSs.
The funds assert claims under English law and, for plaintiffs regarding the actual damages each such plaintiff seeks in its purchasing ADSs, federal securities law, and seek damages for pending litigation and an explanation of how those alleged alleged losses that those funds suffered because of their purchases damages were causally related to the Incident.
and holdings of BP ordinary shares and or ADSs.
All of the cases, with the exception of one case that has been stayed, have been Following the resolution in 2016 of the vast majority of those transferred to MDL 2185.
On 28 September 2016, defendants filed a economic claims opted out of and or excluded from of the 2012 motion to dismiss certain claims against certain defendants in 20 of PSC settlement, referred to above, in 2017 the district court the individual securities cases.
In a decision issued on 30 June 2017, addressed the maritime claims.
On 22 February 2017 the district the district court dismissed many of plaintiffs claims based on court in MDL 2179 ordered that any remaining plaintiffs who wish alleged losses from holdings as opposed to purchases of BP to pursue a general maritime law claim must file and serve on BP ordinary shares and dismissed claims based on all but one of the a sworn statement as to their proprietary interest in property BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 271 See Glossary alleged misstatements that had not been addressed by the courts action can go forward.
On 17 July 2017, defendants moved for On 3 December 2015 and 29 March 2016, Acciones Colectivas fide reconsideration on the one alleged misstatement that the district Sinaloa ACS filed two class actions which have since been court did not dismiss: on 28 July 2017, plaintiffs opposed that motion consolidated in a Mexican Federal District Court on behalf of several and cross-moved for reconsideration on three alleged misstatements Mexican states against BPXP, BPAPC, and other purported BP that the court dismissed.
On 19 January 2018, the court denied subsidiaries.
In these class actions, plaintiffs seek an order requiring defendants motion and plaintiffs cross-motion.
On 2 June 2017, the BP defendants to repair the damage to the Gulf of Mexico, to pay defendants moved to dismiss one action in which plaintiffs seek to penalties, and to compensate plaintiffs for damage to property, to pursue an English law negligent misstatement claim based upon health and for economic loss.
A Mexican BP entity was served with seven meetings with BP employees, on behalf of a class of all the complaint on 23 January 2018 and opposed class certification and institutional investors who engaged and delegated full investment sought dismissal on 30 January 2018 on the basis that the entity did authority to Mondrian Investment Partners.
not exist at the time of the spill.
BPXP was formally served with the On 7 December 2017, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint.
BPXP opposed class certification and February 2018, defendants filed a renewed motion to dismiss that sought dismissal on 1 February 2018, principally on the basis that that amended complaint.
The plaintiffs in an individual action asserting no oil reached Mexican waters or land and there was no economic or only Exchange Act claims voluntarily dismissed their case on 15 environmental harm in Mexico.
Further, on 16 February 2018, defendants moved for Other legal proceedings judgment on the pleadings dismissing, as time-barred, all Exchange Act claims in the remaining individual actions based on alleged FERC and CFTC matters misstatements made more than five years before the filing of the Following an investigation by the US Federal Energy Regulatory actions.
The plaintiffs in three cases have elected to participate in the Commission FERC and the US Commodity Futures Trading ADS securities class action settlement and, accordingly, their Commission CFTC of several BP entities, the Administrative individual cases were dismissed.
Law Judge of the FERC ruled on 13 August 2015 that BP manipulated the market by selling next-day, fixed price natural Canadian class actions gas at Houston Ship Channel in 2008 in order to suppress the Following various legal proceedings, on 26 February 2016, a plaintiff Gas Daily index and benefit its financial position.
On 11 July 2016 seeking to assert claims under Canadian law against BP on behalf of a the FERC issued an Order affirming the initial decision and class of Canadian residents who allegedly suffered losses because of directing BP to pay a civil penalty of $20.16 million and to their purchase of BP ordinary shares and ADSs filed a motion in the disgorge $207,169 in unjust profits.
On 10 August 2016, BP filed a Court of Appeal for Ontario to lift a stay on the action.
The plaintiffs request for rehearing with the FERC.
BP strongly disagrees with motion was granted on 29 July 2016.
On 23 June 2017, BP moved for the FERCs decision and will ultimately appeal to the US Court of summary judgment and on 1 September 2017 the court granted in Appeals if necessary.
part and denied in part that motion, limiting the case to three alleged misstatements and narrowing the class period.
On 29 September Investigations by the FERC and CFTC into BPs trading activities 2017, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of that decision.
continue to be conducted from time to time.
On 15 December 2017, plaintiffs in a purported class action that was OSHA matters filed in 2012 in Alberta, Canada, and not pursued, filed an application On 8 March 2010, the US Occupational Safety and Health seeking advice and directions regarding continuing their action: a Administration OSHA issued 65 citations to BP Products North conference on that application has not yet been scheduled.
America Inc. BP Products and BP-Husky Refining LLC BPHusky for alleged violations of the Process Safety Management Non-US government lawsuits PSM standard at the Toledo refinery, with penalties of On 5 April 2011, the Mexican State of Yucatan submitted a claim approximately $3 million.
These citations resulted from an to the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF alleging potential inspection conducted pursuant to OSHAs Petroleum Refinery damage to its natural resources and environment, and seeking to Process Safety Management National Emphasis Program.
Both recover the cost of assessing the alleged damage.
This was BP Products and BP-Husky contested the citations.
The outcome followed by a suit against BP which was transferred to MDL of a pre-trial settlement of a number of the citations and a trial of 2179.
On 5 April 2017, BP moved to dismiss the State of Yucatans the remainder was a reduction in the total penalty in respect of claims, and the court granted BP's motion to dismiss on 6 March the citations from the original amount of approximately $3 million 2018. to $80,000.
The OSH Review Commission granted OSHAs On 19 April 2013, the Mexican federal government filed a civil action petition for review and briefing was completed in the first half of against BP and others in MDL 2179.
Timing for the issuance of a decision by the Review determination that each defendant bears liability under OPA 90 for Commission is currently uncertain.
Depending on the outcome of damages that include the costs of responding to the spill, natural this review, BP may also pay a penalty not to exceed $1 million in resource damages allegedly recoverable by Mexico as an OPA 90 respect of similar issues at the BP Texas City refinery.
trustee and the net loss of taxes, royalties, fees or net profits.
The claims in this civil action were resolved by agreement effective 15 Prudhoe Bay leak February 2018.
In March and August 2006, oil leaked from oil transit pipelines operated by BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA at the Prudhoe On 18 October 2012, before a Mexican Federal District Court located Bay unit on the North Slope of Alaska.
On 12 May 2008, a BP in Mexico City, a class action complaint was filed against BPXP, p. l. c. shareholder filed a consolidated complaint alleging BPAPC and other BP subsidiaries.
BPXP has since been dismissed.
violations of federal securities law on behalf of a putative class of The plaintiffs, who allegedly are fishermen, are seeking, among other BP p. l. c. shareholders, based on alleged misrepresentations things, compensatory damages for the class members who allegedly concerning the integrity of the Prudhoe Bay pipeline before its suffered economic losses, as well as an order requiring BP to shutdown on 6 August 2006.
On 7 December 2015, the remediate environmental damage resulting from the Incident, to complaint was dismissed with prejudice.
On 5 January 2016, provide funding for the preservation of the environment and to plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of that decision to the Ninth conduct environmental impact studies in the Gulf of Mexico for the Circuit Court of Appeals, and briefing was completed on that next 10 years.
BP has not been formally served with the action.
However, after learning that the Mexican Federal District Court issued a resolution certifying the class on 2 December 2015, BP filed a Lead paint matters constitutional challenge amparo in Mexico on 13 April 2016 asserting Since 1987, Atlantic Richfield Company Atlantic Richfield, a that BP has never been formally served with process in the class subsidiary of BP, has been named as a co-defendant in action.
This amparo was denied on 22 November 2016 and the appeal numerous lawsuits brought in the US alleging injury to persons was also denied on 17 August 2017.
BP has not been formally served and property caused by lead pigment in paint.
The majority of the with the class certification decision, which is required before the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed against Atlantic 272 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary
