102 Notes to the financial statements 1 Basis of accounting Accounting standards not yet adopted by the Group The annual financial statements have been prepared on a going The following accounting standards, interpretations and concern basis as discussed on page 47 and in accordance with amendments have been issued by the IASB but had either not International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the been adopted by the European Union or were not yet effective European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS inthe European Union at 31 December 2017: Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that IFRS 9 Financial Instruments are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group has IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International IFRS 16 Leases Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee as adopted by the IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts European Union and effective for accounting periods beginning on IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and 1 January 2017.
Advance Consideration The financial statements have been prepared under the IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments historical cost convention, except as described under Note 2.26.
Amendments to the following standards: The functional and presentational currency of the Company and IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures thepresentational currency of the Group is sterling.
IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property The separate financial statements of the Company are presented IFRS 2 Classication and Measurement of Share-based as required by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The Company Payment Transactions meets the denition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 Financial Reporting Standard 100 issued by the Financial Reporting IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Council.
Accordingly, in the year ended 31 December 2017 the Insurance Contracts Company reported under FRS 101 as issued by the Financial IFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation Reporting Council.
clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts Except as noted below, the Companys accounting policies are with Customers consistent with those described in the Groups consolidated Improvements to IFRSs 20142016 financial statements.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company Improvements to IFRSs 20152017. has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to share-based payments, The Directors have completed the impact assessment of IFRS 9 financial instruments, capital management, presentation of a and have concluded that under the new standard, which will be cash ow statement, related party transactions and comparative adopted for the financial year ending 31 December 2018, the Group information.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in will be able to continue to record movements in its PPP financial theconsolidated financial statements.
assets through other comprehensive income OCI using the fair value through OCI category.
This is because these financial assets In addition to the application of FRS 101, the Company has are held within a business model whose objective at Group level taken advantage of Section 408 of the Act and consequently its is achieved by both collecting contractual cash ows and selling statement of comprehensive income including the profit and loss financial assets and the contractual terms of the financial asset account is not presented as part of these accounts.
meet the solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding criterion.
Therefore, there will be no quantitative 2 Principal accounting policies impact on the Group upon adoption of IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018.
2.1 Accounting standards Adoption of new and revised standards The Directors have also completed their assessment of the impact The following accounting standards, interpretations and of IFRS 15 and the Group will adopt the new standard for the amendments have been adopted by the Group in the financial year ending 31 December 2018 retrospectively using the current period: cumulative effect approach.
As a result, the Group will restate its opening equity position as at 1 January 2018 by a credit of 3m Amendments to the following standards: to reect the impact of transitioning to IFRS 15.
This adjustment IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative primarily reects the impact of unbundling of a handful of contracts IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for according to what the Group has assessed to be the performance Unrealised Losses.
obligation to be delivered to the customer.
Using the five-step model required by the new standard, the impact of the 3m credit The above new and amended standards do not have a material to equity represents the acceleration of revenue on transition to effect on the Group.
IFRS 15 which was not recognised by the Group under the previous revenue standards.
IFRS 15 would have resulted in an immaterial impact on the Groups income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In addition to the impact on equity, there will be balance sheet reclassications as a result of moving away from IAS 11 balance sheet captions to those prescribed by IFRS 15.
Full IFRS 15 disclosures will be presented in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018.
As the Group has chosen to adopt the cumulative effect approach, the comparative information will not be restated and the Group will continue to present its 2017 results under the previous revenue standards IAS 11 and IAS 18.
As a result of this new standard, the Group has also revised its accounting policies around revenue recognition where applicable as detailed on page 103.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 103 2 Principal accounting policies continued The cost contingencies are reviewed on a regular basis throughout 2.1 Accounting standards continued the contract life and are adjusted where appropriate.
However, the The Directors continue to assess the impact of IFRS 16.
IFRS16 nature of the risks on contracts are such that they often cannot be Leases was issued by the IASB in January 2016 and is effective resolved until the end of the project and therefore may not reverse for accounting periods beginning on or after 1January 2019. until the end of the project.
Management continually review the The new standard will replace IAS17 Leases and will eliminate estimated final out-turn on contracts, and in certain limited cases, the classication of leases as either operating leases or finance assess recoveries from insurers, and make adjustments where leases and, instead, introduce a single lessee accounting model.
No margin is recognised until the outcome of the The adoption of IFRS16 is not expected to have a significant impact contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty.
on the Groups net results or net assets, although the full impact Provision is made for all known or expected losses on individual will be subject to further assessment.
contracts once such losses are foreseen.
Revenue in respect of The Directors do not expect the other standards above to have variations to contracts and incentive payments is recognised when amaterial quantitative effect.
The Group has chosen not to adopt it is probable it will be agreed by the customer.
Revenue in respect any of the above standards and interpretations earlier than required.
of claims is recognised only if it is highly probable not to reverse in future periods.
profit for the year includes the benefit of claims IFRS 15 revenue recognition policies applied from 1 January 2018 settled in the year on contracts completed in previous years.
The Group recognises revenue when it transfers control over a product or service to its customer.
Revenue is measured based 2.2 Basis of consolidation on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer The Group financial statements include theresults of the Company and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
and its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the results Where consideration is not specified within the contract and of joint ventures and associates, drawn up to 31 December therefore subject to variability, the Group estimates the amount of each year.
consideration to be received from its customer.
The consideration a Subsidiaries recognised is the amount which is highly probable not to result in Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group asignicant reversal in future periods.
controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable Where a modication to an existing contract occurs, the Group returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability assesses the nature of the modication and whether it represents toaffect those returns through its power over the entity.
a separate performance obligation required to be satisfied The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that by the Group or whether it is a modication to the existing control commences until the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the The Group does not expect to have any contracts where the period acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
On acquisition, the assets, between the transfer of the promised goods or services to the liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year.
As a their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the fair consequence, the Group does not adjust its transaction price for value of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identiable the time value of money.
net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of The Groups activities are wide-ranging, and as such, depending the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identiable net on the nature of the product or service delivered and the timing of assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited to the income when control is passed onto the customer, the Group will account statement in the period of acquisition.
for revenue over time and at a point in time.
Where revenue is The interest of non-controlling equity holders is stated at the nonmeasured over time, the Group uses the input method to measure controlling equity holders proportion of the fair value of the assets progress of delivery.
Revenue is recognised as follows: When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on revenue from construction and services activities is recognised disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate over time and the Group uses the input method to measure of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value progress of delivery of any retained interest less direct costs of the transaction and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, revenue from manufacturing activities is recognised at a point less liabilities of the subsidiary.
The fair value of any investment in time when title has passed to the customer retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost interest income is accrued on a time basis using the effective is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent interest method by reference to the principal outstanding accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and and the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income dividend income is recognised when the equity holders right in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for in the same manner to receive payment is established.
as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities were disposed of ie reclassied to profit or loss or transferred directly IFRS 15 policies in relation to construction and service contracts toretained earnings.
When the outcome of individual contracts can be estimated reliably, contract revenue and contract costs are recognised as revenue and Any acquisition or disposal which does not result in a change in expenses respectively by reference to the stage of completion at control is accounted for as a transaction between equity holders.
Costs are recognised as incurred and revenue The carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling is recognised on the basis of the proportion of total costs at interests are adjusted to reect the changes in their relative the reporting date to the estimated total costs of the contract.
Any difference between the fair value Estimates of the final out-turn on each contract may include cost of the consideration paid or received and the amount by which the contingencies to take account of the specic risks within each non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity contract that have been identied during the early stages of and attributed to the owners of the parent.
com AR2017 104 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, 2.2 Basis of consolidation continued the results of foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint venture Accounting policies of subsidiaries are adjusted where necessary entities are translated at average rates of exchange for the year, to ensure consistency with those used by the Group.
All intraunless the exchange rates uctuate signicantly during that period, Group transactions, balances, incomeand expenses are eliminated in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are on consolidation.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the reporting date.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments b Joint ventures and associates arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rates of has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of exchange at the reporting date.
Currency translation differences the entity, rather than rights to its individual assets and obligations arising are transferred to the Groups foreign currency translation for its individual liabilities.
reserve and are recognised in the income statement on disposal Associates are those entities over whose financial and operating ofthe underlying investment.
policies the Group has significant inuence, but not control or In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the joint control.
Group may enter into forward foreign exchange contracts.
Refer to The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are Note 2.26 c for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of such derivative financial instruments.
of accounting except when classied as held for sale.
The Group 2.4 Revenue recognition may elect to measure some of its investments in associates at fair Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 where the received or receivable for goods and services provided, net of investment is held by a Group entity which meets the classication trade discounts, value added and similar sales based taxes, after of a venture capital organisation, in which case the investment will eliminating revenue within the Group.
be marked to market with movements being recognised in the income statement.
The equity return from the military housing Revenue is recognised as follows: joint ventures of the Group is contractually limited to a maximum revenue from construction and service activities represents the level of return, beyond which the Group does not share in any value of work carried out during the year, including amounts further return.
Therefore the Groups investment in these projects is not invoiced recognised at initial equity investment plus the value of the Groups revenue from manufacturing activities is recognised when title accrued preferred return from the underlying projects.
has passed Any excess of the fair value of the cost of acquisition over the interest income is accrued on a time basis using the effective Groups share of the fair values of the identiable net assets of interest method by reference to the principal outstanding and the the joint venture or associate entity at the date of acquisition is effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly discounts recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the fair value of the cost estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the of acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount identiable net assets of the joint venture or associate at the date dividend income is recognised when the equity holders right of acquisition discount on acquisition is credited to the income toreceive payment is established.
statement in the period of acquisition.
2.5 Construction and service contracts Investments in joint ventures and associates are initially carried in When the outcome of individual contracts can be estimated reliably, the balance sheet at cost including goodwill arising on acquisition contract revenue and contract costs are recognised as revenue and and adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of expenses respectively by reference to the stage of completion at net assets of the joint venture or associate, less any impairment in the reporting date.
the value of individual investments.
Losses of joint ventures and associates in excess of the Groups interest in those joint ventures Costs are recognised as incurred and revenue is recognised on the and associates are only recognised to the extent that the Group is basis of the proportion of total costs at the reporting date to the contractually liable for, or has a constructive obligation to meet, the estimated total costs of the contract.
Estimates of the final out-turn obligations of the joint ventures and associates.
on each contract may include cost contingencies to take account of the specic risks within each contract that have been identied Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with joint ventures and during the early stages of the contract.
The cost contingencies are associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the reviewed on a regular basis throughout the contract life and are relevant joint venture or associate.
However, the nature of the risks on c Joint operations contracts are such that they often cannot be resolved until the end The Groups share of the results, assets and liabilities of contracts of the project and therefore may not reverse until the end of the carried out in conjunction with another party are included under project.
Management continually review the estimated final out-turn each relevant heading in the income statement and balance sheet.
on contracts, and in certain limited cases, assess recoveries from insurers, and make adjustments where necessary.
2.3 Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of No margin is recognised until the outcome of the contract can be exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and estimated with reasonable certainty.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at Provision is made for all known or expected losses on individual therates of exchange at the reporting date.
significant exchange contracts once such losses are foreseen.
ratesused in the preparation of these financial statements are shown inNote 3.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 105 2 Principal accounting policies continued 2.10 Non-underlying items 2.5 Construction and service contracts continued Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which Revenue in respect of variations to contracts and incentive the Group believes should be separately identied on the face of payments is recognised when it is probable it will be agreed by the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying the customer.
Revenue in respect of claims is recognised when financial performance achieved by the Group.
Such items will negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is not affect the absolute amount of the results for the period and probable that the customer will accept the claim and the probable the trend of results.
Underlying items are items before nonamount can be measured reliably.
profit for the year includes the benefit of claims settled in the year Non-underlying items include: on contracts completed in previous years.
gains and losses on the disposal of businesses and investments, 2.6 Segmental reporting unless this is part of a programme of releasing value from The Group considers its Board of Directors to be the chief operating the disposal of similar businesses or investments such as decision maker and therefore the segmental disclosures provided infrastructure concessions in Note 5 are aligned with the monthly reports provided to the costs of major restructuring and reorganisation of Board of Directors.
The Groups reporting segments are based existing businesses on the types of services provided.
Operating segments with costs of integrating newly acquired businesses similareconomic characteristics have beenaggregated into three acquisition and similar costs related to business combinations reportable segments which reect the nature of the services such as transaction costs provided by the Group.
A description of each reportable segment is provided in Note 5.
Further information on the business activities of impairment and amortisation charges on intangible assets each reportable segment is set out on pages 16 to 25. arising on business combinations amortisation of acquired intangible assets Working capital is the balance sheet measure reported to the chief impairment of goodwill.
The profitability measure used to assess the performance of the Group is underlying profit from operations.
These are examples, however, from time to time it may be appropriate to disclose further items as non-underlying items in Segment results represent the contribution of the different order to highlight the underlying performance of the Group.
segments after the allocation of attributable corporate overheads.
Transactions between segments are conducted at arms-length The results of Rail Germany and certain legacy ES contracts have market prices.
Segment assets and liabilities comprise those assets been included as non-underlying.
Refer to Note 5. and liabilities directly attributable to the segments.
Corporate assets 2.11 Taxation and liabilities include cash balances, bank borrowings, tax balances The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax, calculated and dividends payable.
Non-recourse net borrowings are directly using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted attributable to Infrastructure Investments and therefore not included by the reporting date.
Current tax and deferred tax are charged or within Corporate activities.
credited to the income statement, except when they relate to items Major customers are dened as customers contributing more than charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the relevant tax 10% of the Groups external revenue.
is also accounted for within equity.
Current tax is based on the profit for the year.
2.7 Pre-contract bid costs and recoveries Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until it is virtually Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary certain that a contract will be awarded, from which time further differences arising between the tax bases of assets andliabilities pre-contract costs are recognised as an asset and charged as and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax an expense over the period of the contract.
Amounts recovered on such assets and liabilities is not recognised if the temporary in respect of pre-contract costs that have been written off are difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the deferred and amortised over the life of the contract.
initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable For construction and services projects, the relevant contract is profit nor the accounting profit.
the construction or services contract respectively.
With respect to PPP projects, an assessment is made as to which contractual Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable element the pre-contract costs relate to, in order to determine that future taxable profit will be available against which the the relevant period for amortisation.
The relevant contract is that temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of which gives rise to a financial or intangible asset, which is either the deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date.
construction contract or the contract which transferred the asset to Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on the project.
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except 2.8 profit from operations where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can profit from operations is stated after the Groups share of the postbe controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary tax results of equity accounted joint venture entities and associates, difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
but before investment income and finance costs.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to 2.9 Finance costs income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group Finance costs of debt, including premiums payable on settlement intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis over the term of the instrument, using the effective interest method.
com AR2017 106 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income 2.12 Intangible assets on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
a Goodwill Benets received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and other operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the businesses, joint ventures and associates and represents the lease term.
excess of the fair value of consideration over the fair value of the 2.16 Impairment of assets identiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill on acquisitions Assets that have an indefinite useful life such as goodwill arising of subsidiaries and other businesses is included in non-current on acquisitions are reviewed at least annually for impairment.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates Other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are isincluded in investments in joint ventures and associates.
reviewed for impairment whenever there is any indication that the Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and is carried at carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.
cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is included If the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying when determining the profit or loss on subsequent disposal of amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
thebusiness to which it relates.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to and value in use.
Value in use is assessed by discounting the IFRS 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP estimated future cash ows that the asset is expected to generate.
amounts subject to being tested for impairment.
Goodwill written For this purpose assets, including goodwill, are grouped into cashoff or discount arising on acquisition credited to reserves under UK generating units representing the level at which they are monitored GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in by the Board of Directors for internal management purposes.
determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill impairment losses are not reversed in subsequent b Other intangible assets periods.
Reversals of other impairment losses are recognised Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated inincome when they arise.
Amortisation charges in 2.17 Investments respect of software and Infrastructure Investments intangibles Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date areincluded in underlying items.
where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract c Research and development whose terms require delivery of the investment within the Internally generated intangible assets developed by the Group are timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially recognised only if all the following conditions are met: measured at cost, including transaction costs.
an asset is created that can be identied Available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value.
Gains andlosses arising from changes in the fair value of availableit is probable that the asset created will generate future for-sale investments are recognised in equity, until the investment economic benets is disposed or is determined to be impaired, at which time the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
the cumulative gain or loss is included in the net profit orloss Other research expenditure is written off in the period in which for the period.
Held to maturityinvestments are measured at itis incurred.
2.13 Property, plant and equipment 2.18 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Non-current assets and groups of assets tobe disposed of are depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure classied as held forsale if their carrying amounts will be recovered associated with bringing the asset to its operating location through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Held for sale assets are measured at the lower of their carrying amount on classication as held for sale or fair value less costs 2.14 Investment properties to sell.
The Group classies land and buildings which it holds to generate capital appreciation and or to earn rental income as investment A component of the Group is presented as a discontinued operation property.
The Group has chosen to state its investment properties if it has either been disposed of or is classied as held forsale and at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
it is a separate major line of business or geographic operation or The Group depreciates its investment properties over 25 years.
theproposed sale is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of Land is not depreciated.
a single separate major line of business or geographical operation.
When classied asa discontinued operation, income statement 2.15 Leasing performance is reported in summary form outside continuing Leases which transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of operations and comparative gures are restated.
ownership to the lessee are classied as finance leases.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
2.19 Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the Cost includes an appropriate proportion of manufacturing minimum lease payments, determined at the inception of the overheads incurred in bringing inventories to their present location lease, and depreciation is provided accordingly.
The liability to the and condition and is determined using the first-in first-out method.
lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant marketing, selling and distribution.
effective rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 107 2 Principal accounting policies continued a Classication of financial liabilities and equity instruments 2.20 Trade receivables Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied according Trade receivables are initially recorded at fair value and to the substance of the contractual arrangements.
An equity subsequently measured at amortised cost as reduced by instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the 2.21 Trade payables proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at cost.
b Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares and 2.22 Provisions convertible bonds Provisions for insurance liabilities retained in the Groups captive The Companys cumulative convertible redeemable preference insurance arrangements, legal claims, defects and warranties, shares and the Groups convertible bonds are compound environmental restoration, onerous leases, and other onerous instruments, comprising a liability component and an equity commitments are recognised at the best estimate of the component.
The fair value of the liability components was expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
estimated using the prevailing market interest rates at the dates Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or of issue for similar non-convertible instruments.
The difference constructive obligation as a result of a past event: it is probable that between the proceeds of issue of the preference shares and an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the respective the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
liability components, representing the embedded option to convert the liability components into the Companys ordinary shares, 2.23 Borrowings isincluded in equity.
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Premiums payable on The interest expense on the liability components is calculated by settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are included in the applying applicable market interest rates for similar non-convertible carrying amount of the instrument and are charged to the income debt prevailing at the datesof issue to the liability components statement on an accruals basis using the effective interest method of the instruments.
The difference between this amount and the together with the interest payable.
dividend interest payable is included in the carrying amount of the liability component and is charged to the income statement on an 2.24 Retirement benefit costs accrual basis together with the dividend interest payable.
The Group, through trustees, operates a number of dened benefit and dened contribution retirement and other long-term employee c Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting benefit schemes, the majority of which are of the dened benefit The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage type and are funded.
Dened benefit contributions are determined interest rate risk and to hedge exposures to uctuations in in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice.
foreign currencies in accordance with its risk management policy.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for For dened benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of speculative purposes.
A description of the Groups objectives, providing benets recognised in the income statement and the policies and strategies with regard to derivatives and other financial dened benefit obligations are determined at the reporting date instruments is set out in Note 38. by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet comprises the present Derivatives are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value of the dened benefit pension obligation, determined by value on the date the derivative transaction is entered into and discounting the estimated future cash ows using the market yield aresubsequently re-measured at their fair values.
on a high-quality corporate bond, less the fair value of the scheme Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period in qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that Contributions to dened contribution pension schemes are charged are attributable to the hedged risk.
to the income statement as they fall due.
Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of derivatives that Any surplus of deficit contributions to the Balfour Beatty Pension are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are recognised Fund BBPF and the Railways Pension Scheme RPS would be in other comprehensive income OCI.
Changes in the fair value recoverable by way of a refund as the Group has the unconditional of the ineffective portion of cash ow hedges are recognised right to the surplus and controls the run-off of the benefit in the income statement.
Amounts originally recognised in OCI obligations once all other obligations of the BBPF and RPS have are transferred to the income statement when the underlying been settled.
transaction occurs or, if the transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, are included in the initial cost of that asset 2.25 Share-based payments or liability.
Employee services received in exchange for the grant of equitysettled awards are charged to the income statement on a straightChanges in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that line basis over the vesting period, based on the fair values of the do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income awards at the date of grant.
The credits in respect of the amounts charged are included within Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument separate reserves in equity until such time as the awards are expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualies exercised, when the shares are transferred to employees.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in OCI is retained in equity until 2.26 Financial instruments the hedged transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual OCI is transferred to the income statement for the period.
com AR2017 108 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued b Taxation 2.26 Financial instruments continued The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions and Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for contracts are treated as separate derivatives and recorded in the income taxes.
The Group provides for future liabilities in respect of balance sheet at fair value when their risks and characteristics are uncertain tax positions where additional tax may become payable not closely related to those of the host contract.
Changes in the in future periods and such provisions are based on managements fair value of those embedded derivatives recognised in the balance assessment of exposures.
This may involve a significant amount of sheet are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
judgement as tax legislation can be complex and open to different interpretation in particular in relation to the basis of taxation on d PPP concession companies one-off or unusual transactions.
Management uses both in-house Assets constructed by PPP concession companies are classied and external tax experts and previous experience when assessing principally as available-for-sale financial assets.
These judgements are prone to changes in future periods.
In the construction phase, income is recognised by applying an Each potential liability or contingency is revisited annually, and attributable profit margin to the construction costs representing where actual expected tax liabilities differ from the provisions, the fair value of construction services performed.
In the operational adjustments are made which can have a material impact on the phase, income is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash Groups profit for the year.
receivable over the life of the project to service costs by means of Deferred tax liabilities are generally provided for in full and deferred a deemed rate of return on those costs.
The residual element of tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future projected cash is allocated to the financial asset using the effective taxable profit will arise against which the temporary differences will interest rate method, giving rise to interest income.
Management judgement is required to determine the Due to the nature of the contractual arrangements, the projected amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised based on the cash ows can be estimated with a high degree of certainty.
likely timing and level of future taxable profits.
In the construction phase, the fair value of the Groups PPP c Non-underlying items financial assets is determined by applying an attributable profit Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which margin to the construction costs representing the fair value of the Group believes should be separately identied on the face of construction services performed.
In the operational phase, fair the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying value is determined by discounting the future cash ows allocated financial performance achieved by the Group.
Determining whether to the financial asset using discount rates based on long-term an item is part of underlying items or non-underlying items requires gilt rates adjusted for the risk levels associated with the assets, judgement.
A total non-underlying loss after tax of 25m was with market-related movements in fair value recognised in OCI.
credited 2016: 24m charged to the income statement for the Amounts originally recognised in OCI are transferred to the year ended 31 December 2017.
Refer to Note 10. incomestatement upon disposal of the asset.
d Impairment of goodwill 2.27 Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of The preparation of consolidated financial statements under the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires an and assumptions that affect amounts recognised for assets and estimate to be made of the timing and amount of future cash ows liabilities at the reporting date and the amounts of revenue and expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and the application expenses incurred during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
may differ from these judgements, estimates and assumptions.
A nominal growth rate, based on real GDP growth plus CPI ination, is used to calculate a terminal growth multiple in accordance with The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have the most the Gordon Growth Model.
The discount rates used are based on significant effect on the carrying value of assets and liabilities of the the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted to reect Group as at 31 December 2017 are discussed below.
the specic economic environment of the relevant cash-generating All of the below are both judgements and estimates made by the unit.
The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2017 was Group apart from the classication of non-underlying itemswhich 874m 2016: 937m.
Refer to Note 14. isan item that requires judgement only.
e Available-for-sale financial assets a Revenue and margin recognition At 31 December 2017, 2,006m 2016: 2,292m of PPP financial The Groups revenue recognition and margin recognition policies, assets constructed by the Groups subsidiary, joint venture and which are set out in Notes 2.4 and 2.5, are central to how the Group associate companies were classied as available-for-sale financial values the work it has carried out in each financial year.
In the operational phase the fair value of these financial assets is measured at each reporting date by discounting the future These policies require forecasts to be made of the outcomes of value of the cash ows allocated to the financial asset.
A range of long-term construction services and support services contracts, discount rates is used from 2.2% to 7.7% 2016: 2.3% to 8.3%, which require assessments and judgements to be made on which reects the prevailing risk-free interest rates and the different recovery of pre-contract costs, changes in the scope of work, risk proles of the various concessions.
Refer to Note 38. contract programmes, maintenance and defects liabilities and changes in costs.
A 63m gain was taken to other comprehensive income in 2017 2016: 37m gain and a cumulative fair value gain of 269m In the construction portfolio there are a small number of longhad arisen on these financial assets as a result of marketterm and complex projects where the Group has incorporated related movements in the fair value of these financial assets judgements over contractual entitlements.
The range of potential at31 December 2017 2016: 349m gain.
outcomes as a result of uncertain future events could result in a materially positive or negative swing to profitability and cash ow.
These contracts are primarily within the Groups major infrastructure business units in the UK, US and Far East.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 109 2 Principal accounting policies continued g Retirement benefit obligations 2.27 Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Details of the Groups dened benefit pension schemes are set out continued in Note 28, including tables showing the sensitivity of the pension f Provisions scheme obligations and assets to different actuarial assumptions.
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and therefore At 31 December 2017, the net retirement benefit assets recognised in making a reliable estimate of the quantum and timing of liabilities on the Groups balance sheet were 32m 2016: 231m liabilities.
judgement is applied and re-evaluated at each reporting date.
The effects of changes in the actuarial assumptions underlying More specically on the Groups provisions set aside for any the schemes obligations and discount rates and the differences liabilities arising due to defects, there is a 12-month latent defect between expected and actual returns on the schemes assets are period for which the provision is held, but where there are known classied as actuarial gains and losses.
During 2017, the Group identied issues then the provision may be required to cover recognised net actuarial gains of 246m in equity 2015: 120m rectification work over a more extended period.
losses, including its share of the actuarial gains and losses arising injoint ventures and associates.
The Group recognised provisions at 31 December 2017 of 292m 2016: 273m.
In 2017, the Group benefited from changes in discount rate methodology, which resulted in a 123m gain which was recognised as part of the actuarial gains for the year within the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group accounted for thediscount rate change prospectively as a change in estimate.
3 Exchange rates The following key exchange rates were applied in these financial statements.
Average rates 1 buys 2017 2016 Change US$ 1.29 1.35 4.4 % HK$ 10.07 10.51 4.2 % Euro 1.14 1.23 7.3 % Closing rates 1 buys 2017 2016 Change US$ 1.35 1.23 9.8% HK$ 10.56 9.57 10.3% Euro 1.13 1.17 3.4 % 4 Revenue Group Group 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Revenue from the provision of services 6,873 6,884 Revenue from manufacturing activities 16 11 Proceeds from sale of development land 27 28 Total revenue 6,916 6,923 Investment income Note 8 42 75 Total revenue and investment income 6,958 6,998 Includes IAS 11 construction contract revenue of 6,103m 2016: 6,173m.
com AR2017 110 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Segment analysis Reportable segments of the Group: Construction Services activities resulting in the physical construction of an asset Support Services activities which support existing assets or functions such as asset maintenance and refurbishment Infrastructure Investments acquisition, operation and disposal of infrastructure assets such as roads, hospitals, student accommodation, military housing, offshore transmission networks, waste and biomass and other concessions.
This segment also includes the Groups housing development division.
5.1 Total Group Income statement performance by Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate activity from continuing operations Services Services Investments activities Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m 1 Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 6,649 1,061 524 8,234 1 Share of revenue of joint ventures andassociates 1,074 30 236 1,340 1 Group revenue 5,575 1,031 288 6,894 1 Group operating profit loss 42 41 87 33 137 1 Share of results of joint ventures andassociates 30 29 59 1 profit loss from operations 72 41 116 33 196 Non-underlying items: additional loss on the AWPR contract as a result of Carillions liquidation 44 44 amortisation of acquired intangibleassets 4 5 9 other non-underlying items 12 2 1 4 5 36 2 6 4 48 profit loss from operations 36 39 110 37 148 Investment income 42 Finance costs 73 profit before taxation 117 1 Before non-underlying items Note 2.10 and 10.
Income statement performance by Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate activity from continuing operations Services Services Investments activities Total 2 2 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m 1 Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 6,537 1,103 575 8,215 1 Share of revenue of joint ventures andassociates 1,066 27 340 1,433 1 Group revenue 5,471 1,076 235 6,782 1 Group operating profit loss 50 33 62 33 12 1 Share of results of joint ventures andassociates 29 1 27 57 1 profit loss from operations 21 34 89 33 69 Non-underlying items: include results from certain legacy ES contracts within Construction Services 6 6 include results from Rail Germany within Construction Services 1 1 amortisation of acquired intangibleassets 3 6 9 other non-underlying items 26 12 38 34 12 6 52 profit loss from operations 55 22 83 33 17 Investment income 75 Finance costs 82 profit before taxation 10 1 Before non-underlying items Note 2.10 and 10.
2 Re-presented to classify the Groups 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC as discontinued operations.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 111 5 Segment analysis continued 5.1 Total Group continued Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate Assets and liabilities by activity Services Services Investments activities Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m Due from construction contract customers 254 123 377 Due to construction contract customers 440 95 535 Inventories and non-construction work in progress 29 51 27 107 Trade and other receivables current 688 96 101 14 899 Trade and other payables current 1,205 242 53 42 1,542 Provisions current 150 18 6 20 194 Working capital from continuing operations 824 85 69 48 888 Includes non-operating items and current working capital.
Total assets 2,119 539 1,264 955 4,877 Total liabilities 2,030 270 635 876 3,811 Net assets 89 269 629 79 1,066 Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate Assets and liabilities by activity Services Services Investments activities Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m Due from construction contract customers 247 133 380 Due to construction contract customers 492 50 542 Inventories and non-construction work in progress 30 47 24 101 Trade and other receivables current 882 93 45 46 1,066 Trade and other payables current 1,421 218 57 56 1,752 Provisions current 126 5 3 13 147 Working capital from continuing operations 880 9 23 894 Includes non-operating items and current working capital.
Total assets 2,306 476 1,080 915 4,777 Total liabilities 2,534 322 449 710 4,015 Net liabilities assets 228 154 631 205 762 Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate Other information continuing operations Services Services Investments activities Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment Note 16 59 6 20 Capital expenditure on investment properties Note 17 3 3 Capital expenditure on intangible assets Note 15 82 5 87 Depreciation Note 16 and Note 17 13 8 3 5 29 Gain on disposals of interests in investments Note 32.2 86 86 Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate Other information continuing operations Services Services Investments activities Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment Note 16 17 3 14 7 41 Capital expenditure on investment properties Note 17 32 32 Capital expenditure on intangible assets Note 15 5 6 11 Depreciation Note 16 14 11 2 3 30 Gain on disposals of interests in investments Note 32.3 65 65 balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 112 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Segment analysis continued 5.1 Total Group continued United United Rest of Performance by geographic destination continuing operations Kingdom States world Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 3,200 3,819 1,245 8,264 Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 139 55 1,154 1,348 Group revenue 3,061 3,764 91 6,916 United United Rest of Performance by geographic destination continuing operations Kingdom States world Total 2 2 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 3,465 3,533 1,370 8,368 Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 202 104 1,139 1,445 Group revenue 3,263 3,429 231 6,923 2 Re-presented to classify the Groups 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC as discontinued operations.
Major customers Included in Group revenue are revenues from continuing operations of 1,276m 2016: 1,359m from the US Government and 1,093m 2016: 1,324m from the UK Government, which are the Groups two largest customers.
These revenues are included in the results across all three reported segments.
5.2 Infrastructure Investments Share of joint Share of joint ventures and ventures and associates associates Group Note 18.2 Total Group Note 18.2 Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 1 Underlying profit from operations m m m m m m UK 91524 614 20 North America 30 14 44 16 13 29 Gain on disposals of interests in investments 86 86 65 65 125 29 154 87 27 114 Bidding costs and overheads 38 38 25 25 87 29 116 62 27 89 Net assets liabilities UK 418 253 671 261 334 595 North America 103 160 263 117 146 263 Infrastructure 6 6 521 413 934 384 480 864 Non-recourse borrowings net of associated cash and cash equivalents Note 26 305 305 233 233 Total Infrastructure Investments net assets 216 413 629 151 480 631 The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is disclosed net of investment income, finance costs and taxation.
The results for 2016 included Australia.
1 Before non-underlying items Notes 2.10 and 10.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 113 6 profit loss from operations 6.1 profit loss from continuing operations is stated after charging crediting 2017 2016 m m Research and development costs 1 2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 28 30 Depreciation of investment properties 1 Amortisation of intangible assets 22 21 Net charge of trade receivables impairment provision 2 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 3 Impairment of inventory 1 Impairment of intangible assets 1 profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6 5 Cost of inventory recognised as an expense 82 141 Exchange gains and losses 3 Auditors remuneration 3 3 Short-term hire charges for plant and equipment 53 68 Other operating lease rentals 41 42 6.2 Analysis of auditors remuneration continuing and discontinued operations 2017 2016 m m Services as auditor to the Company 0.5 0.5 Services as auditor to Group subsidiaries 2.2 2.0 Total audit fees 2.7 2.5 Audit-related assurance fees 0.4 0.4 Other assurance fees 0.1 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.5 0.5 Total fees in relation to audit and other services 3.2 3.0 The 2017 audit fee includes an additional fee of 0.2m which represents additional audit scope in the year relating to the audit of the Groups impact of transitioning to IFRS 15.
7 Employee costs 7.1 Group 2017 2016 Employee costs during the year m m Wages and salaries 1,193 1,201 Underlying redundancy costs 3 Non-underlying redundancy costs Note 10.1.
4.1 8 9 Social security costs 98 97 Pension costs Note 28 52 48 Share-based payments Note 33 9 7 1,363 1,362 2017 2016 Average number of Group employees Number Number Construction Services 13,454 13,974 Support Services 5,929 6,841 Infrastructure Investments 1,448 1,524 Corporate 109 111 Continuing operations 20,940 22,450 At 31 December 2017, the total number of Group employees was 20,238 2016: 21,829.
Detailed disclosures of items of remuneration, including those accruing under the Companys equity-settled share-based payment arrangements can be found within the Remuneration report on pages 76 to 87.
7.2 Company The Company did not have any employees and did not incur any employee costs in the year 2016: nil.
Balfour Beatty Group Employment Ltd, which was established in February 2013, remains the employing entity for the Balfour Beatty Groups UK employees.
com AR2017 114 Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Investment income 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Subordinated debt interest receivable 26 29 Interest receivable on PPP financial assets 11 21 Gain on foreign currency deposits 1 19 Other interest receivable and similar income 4 6 42 75 9 Finance costs 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Non-recourse borrowings bank loans and overdrafts 13 24 Preference shares finance cost 12 12 accretion 3 2 Convertible bonds finance cost 5 5 accretion 7 7 US private placement finance cost 13 13 Other interest payable committed facilities 1 4 letter of credit fees 4 3 other finance charges 9 8 Net finance cost on pension scheme assets and obligations Note 28.2 6 4 73 82 10 Non-underlying items 2017 2016 m m Items charged against credited to profit 10.1 Continuing operations 10.1.
1 Trading results of Rail Germany including 2m 2016: 10m of other net operating expenses 1 10.1.
2 Results of certain legacy ES contracts 6 10.1.
3 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 9 9 10.1.
4 Other non-underlying items: Build to Last transformation costs 12 14 additional loss on the AWPR contract as a result of Carillions liquidation 44 loss on disposal impairment of land of Blackpool Airport 1 3 gain on disposal of Heery International Inc 18 pension fund settlement gain 1 provision increases resulting from revised legal guidelines and settlements 25 release of Trans4m provisions on liquidation 8 provision increases resulting from reassessment of industrial disease related liabilities 14 gain on disposal of Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners 3 gain on disposal of Signalling Solutions Ltd 3 gain on disposal of parts of Rail Germany 2 Total other non-underlying items from continuing operations 39 39 48 53 10.1.
5 Share of results of joint ventures and associates release of Trans4m provisions on liquidation 1 Charged against profit before taxation from continuing operations 48 52 10.1.
6 Tax credits: tax effect as a result of the reduction in US Federal corporate income tax rate 32 non-underlying recognition of deferred tax assets in the UK 34 tax on other items above 2 4 Total tax credit on continuing operations 68 4 Non-underlying items credited to charged against profit for the year from continuingoperations 20 48 10.2 Discontinued operations 10.2.
1 Other non-underlying items: gain on disposal of Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC & BK Gulf LLC 5 gain on disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff 24 Non-underlying items credited to profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 5 24 Credited to charged against profit for the year 25 24 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 115 10 Non-underlying items continued Continuing operations 10.1.
1 Rail Germany was reclassied from discontinued operations in 2014 and has continued to be presented as part of the Groups non-underlying items within continuing operations.
In 2017, the remaining parts of Rail Germany generated a nil profit or loss before tax 2016: 1m profit before tax.
2 The Group has continued to present the results of certain external legacy Engineering Services ES contracts in non-underlying items.
These contracts were classied as non-underlying items in 2014 as the performance of these contracts was linked to poor legacy management and in regions where ES has withdrawn from tendering for third-party work.
Construction on these contracts has now completed.
These contracts resulted in anil profit or loss to the Group in 2017 2016: 6m loss.
3 The amortisation of acquired intangible assets from continuing operations comprises: customer contracts 6m 2016: 6m and customer relationships 3m 2016: 3m.
These have been included as non-underlying items as they relate to costs arising on acquisition of businesses.
The charge was recognised in the following segments: Construction Services 4m 2016: 3m and Infrastructure Investments 5m 2016: 6m.
4.1 The Group launched its Build to Last transformation programme in February 2015.
The transformation programme is aimed to drive continual improvement across all of the Groups businesses and realise operational efficiencies.
As a result of this programme, restructuring costs of 12m were incurred in 2017 relating to: Construction Services 6m: Support Services 2m: and Corporate 4m.
These restructuring costs comprise: redundancy costs 8m: property-related costs 3m: and other restructuring costs 1m.
In 2016, the Group incurred restructuring costs of 14m relating to: Construction Services 12m: Support Services 1m: and Corporate 1m.
These restructuring costs comprise: redundancy costs 9m: external advisers 2m: property-related costs 1m: and other restructuring costs 2m.
4.2 On 15 January 2018, Carillion plc led for compulsory liquidation.
Carillion was one of the Groups joint operations partners in the Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route AWPR project on a joint and several basis.
As a result of Carillions liquidation, the Group and its remaining joint operations partner on the project, Galliford Try plc, are jointly liable to deliver Carillions remaining obligations on this contract in addition to each partners existing 33% share.
In light of this, the Group has recognised a one-off non-underlying loss provision of 44m which reects the Groups additional loss on thecontract as a result of Carillions liquidation.
The contract is expected to complete in the summer of 2018.
This loss has been recognised in the Construction Services segment.
4.3 On 12 September 2017, the Group disposed of its entire interest in Regional & City Airports Blackpool Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration of 4m.
The disposal resulted in a 1m loss being recognised as a non-underlying item.
In 2016, an impairment of 3m was recognised on land held at Blackpool Airport.
These losses have been included in the Infrastructure Investments segment.
4.4 On 27 October 2017, the Group disposed of its 100% interest in Heery International Inc for a cash consideration of 43m.
The disposal resulted in a net gain of 18m being recognised as a non-underlying item.
This gain on disposal has been included in the Construction Services segment.
4.5 In 2016, 1m was recognised in relation to pension liability settlements by certain members of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund.
This has been reported within Corporate activities.
4.6 In 2016, potential liabilities on historical health and safety breaches were reassessed following new sentencing guidelines introduced and the settlement of other historical claims previously treated as non-underlying items.
As a result of this, the Group revised its legal provisioning levels relating to these items, recognising an expense of 25m.
This was presented as non-underlying because its size would otherwise distort the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group and the events giving rise to these expenses occurred in prior years.
The charge was recognised in the following segments: Construction Services 13m and Support Services 12m.
4.7 In 2016, the Group released all remaining provisions relating to Trans4m Ltd Trans4m amounting to 9m, 1m of which was recognised at the joint venture level.
Trans4m was an equal joint operation between Balfour Beatty and three other partner shareholders and was contracted to Metronet as part of the London Underground PPP.
The provisions were originally recorded in non-underlying items in2007.
Trans4m went into creditors voluntary liquidation on 27 June 2016.
The credit was recognised in the following segments: Construction Services 8m and Support Services 1m.
4.8 In 2016, the Group commissioned a revised independent actuarial report on its exposure to industrial disease related liabilities.
These are mostly for asbestos-related claims in relation to events pre-1972 which are not insured by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
As a result of the findings within this report, the Group had increased its provision held with respect to industrial disease related liabilities, resulting in a 14m charge to the income statement.
This was presented as non-underlying because its size would otherwise distort the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group and the events giving rise to these liabilities occurred in prior years.
The entire charge was recognised within Construction Services.
4.9 In 2016, the Group disposed of its interest in Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners, comprising its 17.8% interest in the Infrastructure Fund and 100% interest in the funds advisor.
Initial consideration of 48m was received, resulting in a gain of 3m totheGroup.
com AR2017 116 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Non-underlying items continued Continuing operations continued 10.1.
4.10 In 2016, additional consideration relating to the Groups disposal of its 50% interest in Signalling Solutions Ltd SSL in 2015 resulted in a further gain of 2m being reported.
In addition to this, a 1m pension settlement gain arose as a result of transferring pension liabilities relating to the employees of SSL to the new employer.
This gain was recognised within Construction Services.
4.11 In September 2016, the Group completed the disposal of parts of Rail Germany to Tianjin Keyvia Electric Co Ltd for a cash consideration of 15m.
This sale resulted in a 2m gain as a result of recycling of foreign currency reserves.
6.1 The US Government has reduced the Federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% with effect from 1 January 2018.
The netimpacts of this change in 2017 were a non-underlying 32m tax credit to the income statement and a 1m credit to equity.
6.2 During the year significant actuarial gains in the Groups main pension fund, Balfour Beatty Pension Fund BBPF, led to the recognition of a deferred tax liability.
This in turn lead to the recognition of additional UK deferred tax assets of 34m.
Given the size and nature of the credit resulting from the increase to actuarial gains in the BBPF, the credit has been included as a non-underlying item.
6.3 The non-underlying items charged against Group operating profit from continuing operations gave rise to a tax credit of2m comprising: 3m tax credit on amortisation of acquired intangible assets: and 1m charge on the gain on disposal of Heery 2016: 3m tax credit on amortisation of acquired intangible assets: 3m charge on the results of Rail Germany: and 4m credit on other non-underlying items.
1.1 On 1 March 2017, the Group disposed of its 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC to its joint venture partner for a total cash consideration of 11m, resulting in a gain on disposal of 5m.
1.2 Following the Groups disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff PB in 2015, the Group reached a settlement with the purchaser of PB in relation to outstanding tax matters and indemnities in 2016.
The Group received an additional 9m as a result of this settlement.
At the same time, provisions in relation to these matters were released, resulting in an overall gain to the Group of 24m.
11 Income taxes 11.1 Income tax credit Nonunderlying Underlying items 1 items Note 10 Total Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 x Continuing operations m m m m Total UK tax 2 32 30 2 Total non-UK tax 21 36 15 6 Total tax charge credit 23 68 45 8 UK current tax current tax 224 1 adjustments in respect of previous periods 1 1 6 123 7 Non-UK current tax current tax 6 3 3 3 adjustments in respect of previous periods 6 6 10 3 3 7 Total current tax 1 1 14 UK deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 1 37 36 9 adjustments in respect of previous periods 3 UK corporation tax rate change 33 3 1 34 33 9 Non-UK deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 19 1 18 8 US Federal corporate income tax rate change 32 32 adjustments in respect of previous periods 2 2 5 21 33 12 13 Total deferred tax 22 67 45 22 Total tax charge credit from continuing operations 23 68 45 8 x Excluding joint ventures and associates.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 117 11 Income taxes continued 11.1 Income tax credit continued The Group has recognised 68m of tax credits within non-underlying items in the year.
The Group tax charge excludes amounts for joint ventures and associates refer to Note 18.2, except where tax is levied at the Group level.
In addition to the Group tax charge, tax of 50m is charged 2016: 16m credited directly to other comprehensive income, comprising: adeferred tax charge of 37m for subsidiaries 2016: 1m credit : and a deferred tax charge in respect of joint ventures and associates of13m 2016: 15m credit.
11.2 Income tax reconciliation 2 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m profit before taxation 117 10 Less: share of results of joint ventures and associates 59 58 profit loss before taxation 58 48 Add: non-underlying items charged excluding share of joint ventures and associates 48 53 1 Underlying profit before taxation and the results of joint ventures and associates 106 5 Tax on profit before taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20% 20 1 Adjusted for the effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes and other permanent items 3 5 Non-taxable disposals 16 13 # Tax levied at Group level on share of joint ventures and associates profits 9 11 Preference share dividends not deductible 2 2 Deferred tax assets not recognised 1 12 Recognition of losses not previously recognised 1 Effect of tax rates in non-UK jurisdictions 10 4 UK corporation tax rate change 3 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 5 7 Total tax charge on underlying profit 23 12 Less: credit on non-underlying tax items Note 10.1.
6 68 4 Total tax credit charge on profit from continuing operations 45 8 These gains on disposal are not taxable due to availability of exemptions and use of capital losses.
# These are mainly in connection with US and Canadian joint ventures and associates where tax is levied at the Group level rather than within the share of joint ventures and associates.
Deferred tax was not recognised on certain losses where we do not currently expect to be able to recover these amounts against future forecasted taxable profits.
com AR2017 118 Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Earnings per ordinary share Earnings Basic Diluted Basic Diluted 2 2 2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m Continuing operations Earnings 162 162 22 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax credit of 3m 2016: 3m 66 66 Other non-underlying items net of tax credit of 65m 2016: 1m 26 26 42 42 Underlying earnings 142 142 50 50 Discontinued operations Earnings 66 22 22 Other non-underlying items 5 5 24 24 Underlying earnings loss 11 2 2 Total operations Earnings 168 168 24 24 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax credit of 3m 2016: 3m 66 66 Other non-underlying items net of tax credit of 65m 2016: 1m 31 31 18 18 Underlying earnings 143 143 48 48 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted 2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares 680 688 680 684 Earnings per share Basic Diluted Basic Diluted 2 2 2017 2017 2016 2016 Pence Pence Pence Pence Continuing operations Earnings per ordinary share 23.7 23.4 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.9 Other non-underlying items 3.6 3.5 6.1 6.1 Underlying earnings per ordinary share 20.9 20.7 7.2 7.2 Discontinued operations Earnings per ordinary share 1.0 1.0 3.3 3.3 Other non-underlying items 0.9 0.9 3.5 3.5 Underlying earnings loss per ordinary share 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Total operations Earnings per ordinary share 24.7 24.4 3.5 3.5 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.9 Other non-underlying items 4.5 4.4 2.6 2.6 Underlying earnings per ordinary share 21.0 20.8 7.0 7.0 2 Re-presented to classify the Groups 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC as discontinued operations.
13 Dividends on ordinary shares Per share Amount Per share Amount 2017 2017 2016 2016 Pence m Pence m Proposed dividends for the year Interim current year 1.2 8 0.9 6 Final current year 2.4 16 1.8 12 3.6 24 2.7 18 Recognised dividends for the year Final prior year 12 Interim current year 8 6 20 6 The final 2016 dividend was paid on 7 July 2017 and the interim 2017 dividend was paid on 1 December 2017.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 24 May 2018, the final 2017 dividend will be paid on 6 July 2018 to holders on the register on 20 April 2018 by direct credit or, where no mandate has been given, by cheque posted on 6 July 2018 payable on 5 July 2018.
The ordinary shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 19 April 2018.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 119 14 Intangible assets goodwill Accumulated impairment Carrying Cost losses amount m m m At 1 January 2016 997 153 844 Currency translation differences 116 25 91 Additions Note 32.1 2 2 Disposals 5 5 At 31 December 2016 1,110 173 937 Currency translation differences 48 2 46 Disposal of Blackpool Airport Notes 32.2.
6 4 4 Disposal of Heery International Inc Notes 32.2.
6 21 4 17 At 31 December 2017 1,037 163 874 Carrying amounts of goodwill by segment 2017 2016 United United United United Kingdom States Total Kingdom States Total m m m m m m Construction Services 260 434 694 260 492 752 Support Services 131 131 131 131 Infrastructure Investments 4949 5454 Group 391 483 874 391 546 937 Carrying amounts of goodwill by cash-generating unit 2017 2016 Pre-tax Pre-tax discount rate discount rate m % m % UK Regional and Engineering Services 248 10.3 248 10.2 Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc 413 11.0 452 12.6 Rail UK 68 10.4 68 10.4 Gas & Water 58 10.4 58 10.2 Balfour Beatty Communities US 49 11.0 54 12.6 Other 38 10.211.0 57 10.212.8 Group total 874 937 The recoverable amount of goodwill is based on value-in-use, a key input of which is forecast cash ows.
The Groups cash ow forecasts are based on the expected workload of each cash-generating unit CGU, giving consideration to the current level of confirmed and anticipated orders.
Cash ow forecasts for the next three years are based on the Groups Three Year Plan, which covers the period from 2018 to 2020 and includes the stabilisation and recovery of the Construction Services UK business to more normal levels of performance.
The cash ow forecasts for each CGU were compiled from each of its constituent business units as part of the Groups annual financial planning process.
Whilst it is anticipated that growth will remain stable in the UK buildings sector, tender margins will improve as there will be an increased selectivity to drive a higher quality project portfolio.
The Group is well positioned in the UK infrastructure market for major schemes and regulatory spending uplift.
It isanticipated that the US construction market will continue to improve, as will tender margins which will also be driven by increased selectivity of projects.
In the Support Services segment, market conditions are anticipated to be stable in the UK.
The Support Services business has a portfolio of long-term contracts and has secured the majority of its workload for the forecast period.
The other key inputs in assessing each CGU are its long-term growth rate and discount rate.
The discount rates have been calculated usingthe Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC method, which takes account of the Groups capital structure financial risk as well asthe nature of each CGUs business operational risk.
Long-term growth rates are assumed to be the estimated future GDP growth rates based on published independent forecasts for the country or countries in which each CGU operates, less 1.0% to reect current economic uncertainties and their consequent estimated effect on public sector spending on infrastructure.
In the derivation of each CGUs value-in-use, a terminal value is assumed based on a multiple of earnings before interest and tax.
The multiple is applied to a terminal cash ow, which is the normalised cash ow in the last year of the forecast period.
The EBIT multiple iscalculated using the Gordon Growth Model and is a factor of the discount rate and growth rate for each CGU.
The nominal terminal value is discounted to present value.
com AR2017 120 Notes to the financial statements continued 14 Intangible assets goodwill continued 2017 2016 Nominal Nominal long-term long-term Real growth growth rate Real growth growth rate Ination rate rate applied Ination rate rate applied % % % % % % UK Regional and Engineering Services 2.1 0.1 2.2 1.8 1.1 2.9 Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc 2.0 1.4 3.4 1.9 1.5 3.4 Rail UK 2.1 0.1 2.2 1.8 1.1 2.9 Gas & Water 2.1 0.1 2.2 1.8 1.1 2.9 Balfour Beatty Communities US 1.9 0.1 2.0 1.9 1.5 3.4 Other 2.1 0.2 2.3 1.9 1.4 3.3 Sensitivities The Groups impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used.
The major assumptions that result in significant sensitivities are the discount rate and the long-term growth rate, and for certain CGUs, changes to underlying cash projections.
In particular, a reduction of 150 basis points in margin within the Gas & Water CGU would reduce its headroom to nil.
Except as noted above, a reasonable possible change in key assumptions would not give rise to an impairment in any of the Groups CGUs.
The Group continues to consider whether a reasonable possible change in assumptions within the construction business in light of its historical losses would lead to an impairment of the goodwill in the related CGUs and concluded that it is not the case.
The Group maintains that the stabilisation and recovery of the Groups UK Construction business to more normal levels of performance is still a key assumption underpinning the cash ow forecasts used to assess the recoverable amount of the related goodwill.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 121 15 Intangible assets other Infrastructure Customer Customer Brand Investments Software contracts relationships names intangible and other Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 207 59 21 72 130 489 Currency translation differences 39 9 2 50 Transfers 1 1 Additions 1 6 4 11 Removal of fully amortised intangible asset 9 19 16 4 48 Disposal of BBIP Advisor Notes 32.3.
11 4 4 Disposal of parts of Rail Germany Notes 32.3.
11 3 3 At 31 December 2016 238 50 4 78 125 495 Currency translation differences 20 5 1 26 Additions 82 5 87 Removal of fully amortised intangible asset 1 1 At 31 December 2017 218 45 3 160 129 555 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2016 130 42 19 1 75 267 Currency translation differences 25 5 1 2 33 Charge for the year 6 3 1 11 21 Impairment charge 1 1 Removal of fully amortised intangible asset 9 19 16 4 48 Disposal of BBIP Advisor Notes 32.3.
11 1 1 Disposal of parts of Rail Germany Notes 32.3.
11 3 3 At 31 December 2016 152 31 4 2 81 270 Currency translation differences 13 3 1 17 Charge for the year 6 3 2 11 22 Removal of fully amortised intangible asset 1 1 At 31 December 2017 145 31 3 4 91 274 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 73 14 156 38 281 At 31 December 2016 86 19 76 44 225 The Group recognises intangible assets as Infrastructure Investments intangible for assets where the Group bears demand risk underIFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
At 31 December 2017, there are two student accommodation projects which have been classied as intangible assets.
These projects are to design, build and maintain postgraduate accommodation.
In 2017, the construction phase at the University of Edinburgh was completed with additional spend of nil 2016: 6m incurred in the year.
In 2017, the Group also commenced the construction phase at the University of Sussex, incurring a spend of 82m 2016: nil in the year including interest capitalised of 6m 2016: nil.
Construction on this project is anticipated to complete in 2020.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, which are one to four years for customer contracts, three to 10 years for customer relationships, three to seven years for software, and up to five years for brand names, except for customer contracts and relationships relating to Balfour Beatty Investments North America which are amortised on a basis matching the returns earned over the life of the underlying contracts and relationships.
These contracts have a duration of up to 50 years for customer contracts relating to  North America.
The Infrastructure Investments intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the projects, which is 50 years.
Software assets recognised in the UK are amortised on a basis matching their usage prole over their seven-year life.
The Groups remaining knowledge sharing and collaboration software is amortised on a basis matching its usage prole over its five-year life.
Other intangible assets are amortised over periods up to 10 years.
com AR2017 122 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment 16.1 Movements Infrastructure Assets in Land and Plant and leasehold the course of buildings equipment improvements construction Total m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2016 73 359 35 9 476 Currency translation differences 6 19 8 2 35 Transfers 12 12 25 25 Additions 10 17 14 41 Disposals 4 48 52 Disposal of parts of Rail Germany Notes 32.3.
11 4 26 30 At 31 December 2016 93 309 68 470 Currency translation differences 3 7 6 16 Transfers 1 5 4 Additions 67 7 20 Reclassied from inventory 5 5 Removal of fully depreciated assets assets scrapped 5 5 Disposals 4 22 26 Disposal of Blackpool Airport Notes 32.2.
6 15 15 Disposal of Heery International Inc Notes 32.2.
6 4 6 10 At 31 December 2017 72 286 62 3 423 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2016 39 273 1 313 Currency translation differences 3 16 1 20 Transfers 6 6 Charge for the year 7 22 1 30 Impairment charge 3 3 Disposals 444 48 Disposal of parts of Rail Germany Notes 32.3.
11 4 25 29 At 31 December 2016 50 236 3 289 Currency translation differences 26 8 Transfers 1 1 Charge for the year 8 18 2 28 Removal of fully depreciated assets assets scrapped 5 5 Disposals 219 21 Disposal of Blackpool Airport Notes 32.2.
6 9 9 Disposal of Heery International Inc Notes 32.2.
6 35 8 At 31 December 2017 41 220 5 266 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 31 66 57 3 157 At 31 December 2016 43 73 65 181 Infrastructure leasehold improvements comprise student accommodation projects in Iowa and Reno.
All buildings are held under short leaseholds and are depreciated over 40 years.
The carrying amount of the Groups plant and equipment held under finance leases was nil 2016: 1m.
The Company has no property, plant and equipment held under finance leases.
Except for land and assets in the course of construction, the costs of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives.
Buildings are depreciated at 2.5% per annum or over the term of the lease, and plant and equipment is depreciated at 4% to 33% per annum.
16.2 Analysis of carrying amount of land and buildings Group Group 2017 2016 m m Freehold 7 14 Long leasehold over 50 years unexpired 1 1 Short leasehold 23 28 31 43 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 123 17 Investment properties Accumulated Carrying Cost depreciation amount m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2016 4 4 Additions 32 32 At 31 December 2016 36 36 Additions 4 4 Reclassied from inventories 7 7 Depreciation charge for the year 1 1 At 31 December 2017 47 1 46 Investment properties are held by the Group to generate rental income and capital appreciation.
The Group has chosen to account for its investment property assets under the cost method.
For one of its investment properties, the Group has secured non-recourse project specic nancing amounting to 26m 2016: 18m, which is secured through a oating charge over the property.
As a result, 1m of interest cost was capitalised on the asset in 2017 whilst the property was under construction.
Construction commenced on one property in 2016 and this was completed in 2017.
Once the property was ready for use, the Group ceased capitalisation of interest cost and commenced depreciation on the property, on a straight-line basis over 25 years.
The remaining investment properties within the Group consist of one other fully constructed property and 4m of land.
The fair value of the Groups investment properties at 31 December 2017 approximates the carrying value.
The Group generated 1m 2016: nil of rental income from its investment properties.
com AR2017 124 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates 18.1 Movements Infrastructure Net assets Loans Fund Total m m m m At 1 January 2016 418 215 38 671 Currency translation differences 45 5 50 Income recognised 57 1 56 Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets Note 30.1 10 10 Fair value revaluation of cash ow hedges Note 30.1 92 92 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities Note 30.1 1 1 Tax on items taken directly to equity Note 30.1 15 15 Dividends 40 3 43 Additions 12 12 Capital calls 8 8 Disposals 7 33 48 88 Fair value of retained interest in the five streetlighting projects 4 4 8 Loans advanced 17 17 # Reclassify additional losses incurred on negative investment in Dutco to provisions Note 25 3 3 At 31 December 2016 426 202 628 Currency translation differences 21 21 Income recognised 60 60 Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets Note 30.1 60 60 Fair value revaluation of cash ow hedges Note 30.1 10 10 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities Note 30.1 4 4 Tax on items taken directly to equity Note 30.1 13 13 Dividends 69 69 Additions 29 29 Disposal of Connect Plus M25 Note 32.2.
4 121 39 160 Loans advanced 4 4 # Reclassify profit generated by Dutco to provisions Note 25 1 1 At 31 December 2017 364 167 531 # Represents the combined results of BK Gulf LLC and Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same management structure.
Includes 3m of subordinated debt interest expense which has been capitalised into the carrying amount of the loan.
The principal joint ventures and associates are shown in Note 39.
The amount of the Groups share of borrowings of joint ventures and associates which was supported by the Group and the Company was nil 2016: 17m, relating to the Groups share of guaranteed borrowings.
The non-recourse borrowings of joint venture and associate entities relating to infrastructure concessions projects are repayable over periods extending up to 2044.
The non-recourse borrowings arise under facilities taken out by project-specic joint venture and associate concession companies.
The borrowings of each concession company are secured by a combination of xed and oating charges over that concession companys interests in its projects assets and revenues and the shares in the concession company held by its immediate parent company.
A significant part of these loans has been swapped into xed rate debt by the use of interest rate swaps.
As disclosed in Note 39 f, the Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding of joint ventures and associates in Infrastructure Investments projects and military housing concessions.
Further, in respect of a number of these investments the Group has committed not to dispose of its equity interest until construction is complete.
As is customary in such projects, banking covenants restrict the payment of dividends and other distributions.
# In 2016 and up until the Group disposed of its 49% interests in Dutco, the Group recognised losses in relation to Dutco in excess of the carrying value of its investment as the Group had constructive obligations to provide further funding to make good these losses.
As at the date of disposal, these losses amounted to 11m and had been classied as other provisions 2016: 12m.
The Group disposed of its 49% interests in BK Gulf LLC and Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC on 1 March 2017.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 125 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 18.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates Infrastructure Investments Construction Support North Services Services UK America Total Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Income statement continuing operations m m m m m m 1 Revenue 1,074 30 173 63 236 1,340 1 Underlying operating profit 32 5 15 20 52 Investment income 3 127 9 136 139 Finance costs 2 114 10 124 126 1 profit before taxation 33 18 14 32 65 Taxation 3 3 3 6 profit after taxation 30 15 14 29 59 Balance sheet Non-current assets Intangible assets goodwill 32 32 Infrastructure Investments intangible 23 23 23 other 3 12 12 15 Property, plant and equipment 25 38 3 41 66 Investment properties 72 72 72 Investments in joint ventures and associates 7 7 PPP financial assets 1,659 184 1,843 1,843 Military housing projects 112 112 112 Other non-current assets 53 17 17 70 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 329 156 19 175 504 Other current assets 206 53 3 56 262 Total assets 655 1,958 393 2,351 3,006 Current liabilities Borrowings non-recourse 32 41 41 73 Other current liabilities 456 1 141 11 152 609 Non-current liabilities Borrowings non-recourse 1,331 222 1,553 1,553 Other non-current liabilities 52 355 355 407 Total liabilities 540 1 1,868 233 2,101 2,642 Net assets 115 1 90 160 250 364 Loans to joint ventures and associates 4 163 163 167 Total investment in joint ventures and associates 115 3 253 160 413 531 Including Singapore.
The Groups investment in military housing joint ventures and associates projects is recognised at its remaining equity investment plus the value of the Groups accrued returns from the underlying projects.
The military housing joint ventures and associates have total non-recourse net borrowings of 2,340m 2016: 2,710m.
Note 39 e details the Groups military housing projects.
On certain Infrastructure Investments concessions where net fair value revaluations of PPP financial assets and cash ow hedges resulted in the Groups carrying value of these investments being negative, the Group has not recognised losses beyond the carrying value of its investments.
This is because the Group has not committed to provide any further funding to these investments and the borrowings within these concessions are non-recourse to the Group.
At 31 December 2017, the unrecognised cumulative net fair value charges to other comprehensive income amounted to 9m 2016: 19m.
com AR2017 126 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 18.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates continued Infrastructure Investments Construction Support North Services Services UK America Total Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2 Income statement continuing operations m m m m m m 1 Revenue 1,066 27 220 120 340 1,433 1 Underlying operating profit 31 1 6 15 21 53 Investment income 2 126 7 133 135 Finance costs 1 114 9 123 124 1 profit before taxation 32 1 18 13 31 64 Taxation 3 4 4 7 profit after taxation before non-underlying items 29 1 14 13 27 57 Share of results within non-underlying items 1 1 profit after taxation 30 1 14 13 27 58 Balance sheet Non-current assets Intangible assets goodwill 35 35 Infrastructure Investments intangible 19 19 19 other 3 12 12 15 Property, plant and equipment 29 33 33 62 Investment properties 61 61 61 Investments in joint ventures and associates 4 4 PPP financial assets 1,941 188 2,129 2,129 Military housing projects 121 121 121 Other non-current assets 44 24 24 68 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 392 203 35 238 630 Other current assets 272 69 2 71 343 Total assets 779 2,301 407 2,708 3,487 Current liabilities Borrowings non-recourse 51 23 23 74 Other current liabilities 527 148 39 187 714 Non-current liabilities Borrowings non-recourse 1,520 217 1,737 1,737 Other non-current liabilities 57 474 5 479 536 Total liabilities 635 2,165 261 2,426 3,061 Net assets 144 136 146 282 426 Loans to joint ventures and associates 4 198 198 202 Total investment in joint ventures and associates 144 4 334 146 480 628 Including Singapore.
Excludes the Groups share of the balance sheets of BK Gulf LLC and Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC as this is presented within provisions as set out in Note 18.1.
18.3 Aggregate information of joint ventures and associates Joint ventures Associates Total 2017 2017 2017 m m m The Groups share of profit from continuing operations 49 10 59 Aggregate carrying amount of the Groups interest 425 106 531 Joint 2 2 ventures Associates Total 2016 2016 2016 m m m The Groups share of profit from continuing operations 48 10 58 Aggregate carrying amount of the Groups interest 504 124 628 2 Re-presented to classify the Groups 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC as discontinued operations.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 127 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 18.4 Details of material joint ventures Connect Plus @ Gammon M25 Ltd Dutco 2017 2016 2017 2016 2016 m m m m m Proportion of the Groups ownership interest in the joint venture 50% 50% 20% 40% 49% Income statement continuing operations Revenue 2,040 1,940 118 126 642 Underlying operating profit loss 35 25 3 6 1 Investment income 15 12 138 138 Finance costs 12 8 111 104 2 Income tax charge 6 7 6 7 profit loss and total comprehensive income loss 100% 32 22 24 33 3 Groups share of profit loss and total comprehensive income loss 16 11 10 14 2 Dividends received by the Group during the year 37 2 Balance sheet Non-current assets 319 317 2,123 1,967 23 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 622 672 197 160 12 Other current assets 387 514 69 68 624 1,009 1,186 266 228 636 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 699 807 86 66 605 Provisions 54 52 26 Borrowings recourse 35 Borrowings non-recourse 70 109 6 6 Other current liabilities 123 94 45 47 19 946 1,062 137 119 685 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 76 76 Provisions 21 17 Borrowings non-recourse 109 116 1,027 1,044 Other non-current liabilities including shareholder loans 36 45 618 605 242 254 1,645 1,649 Net assets liabilities 100% 140 187 607 427 26 Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in the above joint ventures recognised in the consolidated financial statements: Net assets liabilities of joint venture 100% 140 187 607 427 26 Groups share of net assets liabilities 70 94 121 171 13 Add: Groups interest in shareholder loans 39 78 Goodwill 29 32 1 & Carrying amount of the Groups interest in the joint venture 99 126 160 249 12 @ Represents the combined results of Gammon China Ltd and Gammon Capital West Pte.
Ltd as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same management structure.
The Group disposed of a 20% interest in December 2017.
Represents the combined results of BK Gulf LLC and Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same management structure.
The Group disposed of its 49% interests in Dutco on 1 March 2017.
& The negative carrying amount of the Groups interest in Dutco was presented within provisions in 2016.
Refer to Notes 18.1 and 25. balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 128 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 18.5 Cash ow from to joint ventures and associates Infrastructure Infrastructure Investments Investments InfraNorth North structure UK America Other Total UK America Fund Other Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Cash ows from investing activities m m m m m m m m m Dividends from joint ventures and associates 2145369 5 12 3 23 43 Subordinated debt interest received 9 9 19 19 Investments in and loans to joint ventures and associates 4 26 30 20 9 8 37 Equity 3 26 29 3 9 8 20 Subordinated debt invested 1 1 17 17 Disposal of investments in joint ventures 103 3 106 108 47 2 157 Net cash ow from to joint ventures and associates 110 12 56 154 112 3 42 25 182 Including Singapore.
The cash ows for 2016 included Australia.
18.6 Share of reserves of joint ventures and associates PPP Currency Accumulated Hedging financial translation Total profit loss reserve assets reserve Note 30.1 m m m m m At 1 January 2016 92 201 282 23 196 Currency translation differences 41 41 Income recognised 56 56 Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets 10 10 Fair value revaluation of cash ow hedges 92 92 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities 1 1 Tax on items taken directly to equity 14 1 15 Dividends 43 43 Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal 6 81 66 9 Reserves disposed 9 9 At 31 December 2016 91 198 227 64 184 Currency translation differences 18 18 Income recognised 60 60 Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets 60 60 Fair value revaluation of cash ow hedges 11 11 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities 4 4 Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 2 10 13 Dividends 69 69 Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal 58 143 85 Reserves disposed 20 1 21 At 31 December 2017 65 132 134 46 113 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 129 19 Investments 19.1 Group Availablefor-sale Held to investments maturity in mutual bonds funds Total m m m At 1 January 2016 24 20 44 Currency translation differences 44 Fair value gains 11 Additions 11 Maturities disposals 2 3 5 At 31 December 2016 22 23 45 Currency translation differences 2 2 Fair value gains 33 Additions 11 Maturities disposals 5 3 8 At 31 December 2017 17 22 39 The held to maturity bonds are held by the Groups captive insurance company, Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, and comprise xed rate bonds or treasury stock with an average yield to maturity of 0.73% 2016: 0.73% and weighted average life of 2.2 years 2016: 2.1years.
The fair value of the bonds is 17m 2016: 23m, determined by the market price of the bonds at the reporting date.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2017 is the carrying amount.
These bonds have been pledged as security for letters of credit issued in respect of Delphian Insurance Company Ltd.
The available-for-sale investments in mutual funds comprise holdings in a number of funds, based on employees investment elections, inrespect of the deferred compensation obligations of the Group as disclosed in Note 28.2.
The fair value of the available-for-sale investments is 22m 2016: 23m, determined by the market price of the funds at the reporting date.
19.2 Company 2017 2016 m m Investment in subsidiaries 1,802 1,800 Provisions 102 102 1,700 1,698 20 PPP financial assets Economic Social infrastructure infrastructure Total m m m At 1 January 2016 283 119 402 Income recognised in the income statement: interest income Note 8 14 7 21 Gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: fair value movements 16 11 27 Other movements: cash expenditure 25 6 31 cash received 28 11 39 disposal of interest in the five streetlighting projects Notes 32.3.
11 279 279 At 31 December 2016 31 132 163 Income recognised in the income statement: interest income Note 8 38 11 Gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: fair value movements 1 4 3 Other movements: cash expenditure 1 1 cash received 4 11 15 At 31 December 2017 30 133 163 Assets constructed by PPP subsidiary concession companies are classied as available-for-sale financial assets and are denominated insterling.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the PPP financial assets.
In 2016, the Group disposed of 80% interests in five streetlighting projects and retained 20% interests.
There were no impairment provisions in 2017 or 2016. balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 130 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Inventories 2017 2016 m m Unbilled non-construction work in progress 55 36 Raw materials and consumables 20 29 Development and housing land and work in progress 27 32 Finished goods and goods for resale 5 4 107 101 22 Construction contracts 2017 2016 Contracts in progress at reporting date m m Due from construction contract customers 377 380 Due to construction contract customers 535 542 158 162 23 Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Current Trade receivables 536 653 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 7 7 529 646 Due from subsidiaries 1,531 1,453 Due from joint ventures and associates 23 58 17 Due from joint operation partners 25 7 # Contract retentions receivable 185 242 Accrued income 18 17 Prepayments 35 36 1 Due on disposals 63 Other receivables 21 60 899 1,066 1,531 1,471 Non-current Due from joint ventures and associates 38 25 2 2 # Contract retentions receivable 173 151 Due on disposals 4 Other receivables 1 4 216 180 2 2 Total trade and other receivables 1,115 1,246 1,533 1,473 Comprising Financial assets Note 38 1,080 1,210 1,533 1,472 Non-financial assets prepayments 35 36 1 1,115 1,246 1,533 1,473 # Including 352m 2016: 390m construction contract retentions receivable.
Based on prior experience, an assessment of the current economic environment and a review of the financial circumstances of individual customers, the Directors believe no further credit risk provision is required in respect of trade receivables.
The Directors consider that the carrying values of current and non-current trade and other receivables approximate their fair values.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 131 23 Trade and other receivables continued Movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables Group Group 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 7 11 Charged credited to the income statement: additional provisions 2 3 unused amounts reversed 2 1 Utilised during the year 5 Disposal of parts of Rail Germany Notes 32.3.
11 1 At 31 December 7 7 Maturity prole of impaired trade receivables and trade receivables past due but not impaired Past due but not Impaired impaired Group Group Group Group 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Up to three months 1 31 23 Three to six months 9 12 Six to nine months 1 5 10 Nine to 12 months 1 3 6 More than 12 months 6 5 27 33 7 7 75 84 At 31 December 2017, trade receivables of 75m 2016: 84m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of individual customers where there is no reason to believe that the receivable is not recoverable.
The Company had no provision for impairment of trade receivables and no trade receivables that were past due but not impaired ineither year.
com AR2017 132 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Current Trade and other payables 833 936 1 2 Accruals 604 701 7 7 Deferred income 1 15 VAT, payroll taxes and social security 68 73 Advance payments on contracts 16 4 Due to subsidiaries 1,911 1,756 Due to joint ventures and associates 11 11 Dividends on preference shares 6 6 6 6 Due on acquisitions 3 3 Due on disposals Note 32.3.
8 3 1,542 1,752 1,925 1,771 Non-current Trade and other payables 120 110 1 Accruals 19 20 Due to joint ventures and associates 7 7 3 3 Due on acquisitions 11 14 157 151 4 3 Total trade and other payables 1,699 1,903 1,929 1,774 Comprising Financial liabilities Note 38 1,585 1,772 1,929 1,774 Non-financial liabilities: accruals not at amortised cost 29 39 deferred income 1 15 VAT, payroll taxes and social security 68 73 advance payments on contracts 16 4 1,699 1,903 1,929 1,774 Included within the Groups trade and other payables balance is 0.2m 2016: 2.6m relating to payments due to UK suppliers who are on bank-supported supply chain finance arrangements.
The Group settles these amounts in accordance with the relevant suppliers standard supplier payment terms, normally 30 days.
In 2017 these arrangements were used by 19 suppliers and had a peak utilisation of 2.6m.
These arrangements are not being extended to any other supplier.
Maturity prole of the Groups non-current financial liabilities at 31 December Due to joint Trade ventures and other and Due on payables Accruals associates acquisitions Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m Due within one to two years 104 13 3 120 Due within two to five years 12 5 8 25 Due after more than five years 417 12 120 19 7 11 157 Due to joint Trade ventures and other and Due on payables Accruals associates acquisitions Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m Due within one to two years 98 10 3 111 Due within two to five years 4 7 8 19 Due after more than five years 8 3 7 3 21 110 20 7 14 151 The Directors consider that the carrying values of current and non-current trade and other payables approximate their fair values.
The fair value of non-current trade and other payables has been determined by discounting future cash ows using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 133 25 Provisions Group Company Contract Employee Other Other provisions provisions provisions Total provisions m m m m m At 1 January 2016 92 54 60 206 2 Currency translation differences 6219 Transfers 1 5 6 Reclassied from accruals and due to construction contract customers 40 4 44 Charged credited to the income statement: additional provisions 100 43 33 176 unused amounts reversed 36 15 21 72 2 additional losses arising from Dutco Note 18.1 33 Utilised during the year 56 28 8 92 Disposal of parts of Rail Germany Notes 32.3.
11 1 1 At 31 December 2016 146 61 66 273 Currency translation differences 3 1 4 Transfers 4 3 7 Reclassied from accruals and due to construction contract customers 13 1 14 Charged credited to the income statement: additional provisions 122 29 12 163 unused amounts reversed 38 7 10 55 profit generated by Dutco Note 18.1 1 1 Utilised during the year 51 24 10 85 Disposal of Dutco Note 32.2.
1 11 11 Disposal of Heery International Inc Note 32.2.
6 2 2 At 31 December 2017 1916239 292 Group Group Contract Employee Other Contract Employee Other provisions provisions provisions Total provisions provisions provisions Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m m m Due within one year 148 22 24 194 109 22 16 147 Due within one to two years 2076 33 11 10 16 37 Due within two to five years 1696 31 19 22 26 67 Due after more than five years 724 334 778 22 1916239 292 1466166 273 Represents the combined results of BK Gulf LLC and Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same management structure.
Contract provisions include construction insurance liabilities, principally in the Groups captive insurance arrangements, and defect and warranty provisions on contracts, primarily construction contracts, that have reached practical completion.
There is a 12 month latent defect period for which the provision is held, but where there are known identied issues then the provision may be required to cover rectification work over a more extended period.
Employee provisions are principally liabilities relating to employers liability insurance retained in the Groups captive insurance arrangements andprovisions for employee termination liabilities arising from the Groups restructuring programmes.
Other provisions principally comprise: motor and other insurance liabilities in the Groups captive insurance arrangements: legal claims and costs, where provision is made for the Directors best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress: property-related provisions, mainly onerous lease commitments, some of which arise from the Groups restructuring programmes: and environmental provisions.
The Group takes actuarial advice when establishing the level of provisions in the Groups captive insurance arrangements and certain other categories of provision.
Insurance-related provisions within these categories were 62m 2016: 82m as follows: Contract provisions 32m 2016: 42m : Employeeprovisions 26m 2016: 31m : and Other, mainly motor, provisions 4m 2016: 9m.
Restructuring provisions within these categories were 6m 2016: 10m as follows: Employee provisions 1m 2016: 10m : and Other, mainly property-related, provisions 5m 2016: nil.
In 2016 and up until the Group disposed of its 49% interests in Dutco, the Group recognised losses in relation to Dutco in excess of its carrying value of its investment as the Group had constructive obligations to provide further funding to make good these losses and these were classied as other provisions.
com AR2017 134 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 26.1 Group Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost bank overdrafts 1 1 US private placement Note 26.2 33 226 259 285 285 liability component of convertible bonds Note 26.3 226 226 240 240 loans under committed facilities 50 50 other loans 9 4 13 4 8 12 Secured borrowings at amortised cost finance leases 1 1 268 230 498 56 533 589 Cash and deposits at amortised cost 717 717 605 605 Term deposits at amortised cost 116 116 157 157 Cash and cash equivalents excluding infrastructure concessions 833 833 762 762 565 230 335 706 533 173 Non-recourse infrastructure concessions project finance loans at amortised cost with final maturity between 2019 and 2062 8 432 440 47 193 240 Infrastructure concessions cash and cash equivalents 135 135 7 7 127 432 305 40 193 233 Net cash borrowings 692 662 30 666 726 60 The loans relating to project finance arise under non-recourse facilities taken out by project-specic subsidiary companies.
The loans of each company are secured by a combination of xed and oating charges over that companys interests in its projects assets and revenues and the shares in the company held by its immediate parent company.
Included in cash and cash equivalents is restricted cash of: 25m 2016: 23m held by the Groups captive insurance company, Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, which is subject to Isle of Man insurance solvency regulations: 12m 2016: 31m held within construction project bank accounts: nil 2016: nil relating to cash collateral held against an issued letter of credit: and 135m 2016: 7m relating to the maintenance and other reserve accounts in the Infrastructure Investments subsidiaries.
Cash, deposits and term deposits include the Groups share of amounts held by joint operations of 261m 2016: 282m.
Maturity prole of the Groups borrowings at 31 December Non-recourse Non-recourse project Other project Finance Other finance borrowings Total finance leases borrowings Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m m Due on demand or within one year 8 268 276 47 1 55 103 Due within one to two years 70 4 74 8 285 293 Due within two to five years 22 34 56 32 37 69 Due after more than five years 340 192 532 153 211 364 440 498 938 240 1 588 829 The carrying values of the Groups borrowings are equal to the fair values at the reporting date.
The fair values are determined by discounting future cash ows using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Undrawn Group committed borrowing facilities at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent were satisfied Non-recourse Non-recourse project Other project Other finance borrowings Total finance borrowings Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m Expiring in one year or less 12526 8 8 Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 2222 Expiring in more than two years 375 375 328 328 1400 401 8 350 358 In November 2017, 375m of the Groups 400m revolving credit facility was extended until 2020.
The entire facility remains undrawn at 31 December 2017.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 135 26 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings continued 26.2 US private placement In March 2013, the Group raised US$350m 231m of borrowings through a US private placement of a series of notes with an average coupon of 4.94% per annum and an average maturity of 9.3 years.
At 31 December 2017, as a result of movements in exchange rates, thebalance outstanding was 259m 2016: 285m.
26.3 Convertible bonds On 3 December 2013, the Group issued convertible bonds of 100,000 each maturing on 3 December 2018 at a total issue price of 252.7m and incurred transaction costs of 6.7m resulting in net proceeds of 246m.
The bonds have a coupon of 1.875% per annum payable semi-annually in arrears and the initial conversion price has been set at 3.6692 per share.
On 23 April 2014, the conversion price was revised to 3.6212.
From 14 January 2014 until 14 days prior to final maturity, one bond is convertible at the option of the holder into one preference share in Balfour Beatty Finance No 2 Ltd which is immediately transferred to the Company in exchange for the issue of ordinary shares in the Company.
The bonds are compound instruments, comprising equity and liability components.
The fair value of the liability component at the date of issue, included under non-current liabilities, was 220m estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of 4.29% per annum for a similar non-convertible instrument.
The difference between the net proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds after the transaction costs and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the value of the equity conversion component, was included in equity holders funds.
In December 2017, the Group repurchased 21.3m of the convertible bonds, resulting in a loss on settlement of 0.4m.
As a result of this settlement, 2m of reserves previously held in other reserves which related to the equity conversion component of the bonds that were repurchased was transferred to retained earnings.
Liability component recognised in the Balance Sheet 2017 2016 m m Liability component at 1 January at amortised cost 240 233 Accretion 7 7 Repurchase of bonds 21 Liability component at 31 December at amortised cost 226 240 The fair value of the liability component of the convertible bonds at 31 December 2017 was 227m 2016: 244m.
The finance cost of the convertible bonds is calculated using the effective interest method.
26.4 Company NonNonCurrent current Total Current current Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m Cash and deposits 134 134 167 167 Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost bank loans and overdrafts loans under committed facilities 50 50 US private placement Note 26.2 33 226 259 285 285 Net borrowings 101 226 125 117 285 168 The bank loans and overdrafts are sterling denominated, variable rate instruments and repayable on demand.
com AR2017 136 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Deferred tax 27.1 Group Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends tosettle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Net deferred tax position at 31 December Group Group Company Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Deferred tax assets 52 54 Deferred tax liabilities 70 80 1 2 18 26 1 2 Movement for the year in the net deferred tax position Group Company m m At 1 January 2016 5 2 Currency translation differences 13 # Charged to income statement 22 # Credited to equity 1 Disposal of five streetlighting projects Notes 32.3.
11 3 At 31 December 2016 26 2 Currency translation differences 7 # Credited to income statement 45 1 # Charged to equity 37 Research and development tax credit 1 Disposal of Blackpool Airport Notes 32.2.
6 1 Disposal of Heery International Inc Notes 32.2.
6 9 At 31 December 2017 18 1 # Group includes 34m credited 2016: nil to the income statement and 1m credited 2016: nil to equity in relation to changes in the US Federal corporate income rate taxes.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 137 27 Deferred tax continued 27.1 Group continued The table below shows the deferred tax assets and liabilities before being offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
Net deferred tax position Depreciation in excess Retirement Unrelieved ShareOther Research and of capital benets trading based Preference Fair value GAAP develop ment allowances losses payments Provisions shares adjustments Derivatives differences credit Total m m m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 14 26 46 2 33 3 50 63 5 Currency translation differences 2 2 9 4 11 1 14 13 Transfers 4 4 Credited charged toincomestatement 5 8 7 7 1 12 22 22 Credited charged toequity 2 2 1 1 Disposal of five streetlighting projects Notes 32.3.
11 3 3 At 31 December 2016 17 22 62 2 44 2 79 7 99 26 Currency translation differences 1 4 1 4 7 7 Credited charged toincomestatement 2 5 21 2 16 14 27 45 Credited charged toequity 37 1 1 37 Research and development tax credit 1 1 Disposal of Blackpool Airport Notes 32.2.
6 1 1 Disposal of Heery International Inc Notes 32.2.
6 3 4 10 9 At 31 December 2017 19 21 79 5 26 2 57 6 74 1 18 At the reporting date the Group had unrecognised tax losses from operations excluding capital losses that arose over a numbers of years of approximately 922m 2016: 1,064m which are available for offset against future profits.
8m 2016: 6m will expire between five and 20 years after the year in which they arose, using losses incurred in earlier years before those incurred in later years, with the first expiry in 2018.
The remaining losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets for UK corporation tax trading losses of 245m 2016: 4m.
The Group has UK corporation tax trading losses of 612m 2016: 768m which are not recognised as deferred tax assets.
The Group also had temporary differences relating to retirement benets on which a deferred tax asset has not been recognised of 62m 2016: 108m.
At the reporting date the undistributed reserves for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised were nil 2016: 1m in respect of subsidiaries and nil 2016: nil in respect of joint ventures and associates.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because either no temporary difference arises or the timing of any distribution is under the Groups control and no distribution which gives rise to taxation is contemplated.
27.2 Company Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax Deferred tax liabilities assets Net deferred Preference Share-based tax assets shares Provisions payments liabilities m m m m At 1 January 2016 3 1 2 Credited charged to income statement 1 1 At 31 December 2016 2 2 Credited to income statement 1 1 At 31 December 2017 2 1 1 balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 138 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 28.1 Introduction The Group, through trustees, operates a number of dened contribution and dened benefit pension schemes.
Dened contribution schemes are those where the Groups obligation is limited to the amount that it contributes to the scheme and the scheme members bear the investment and actuarial risks.
Dened benefit schemes are schemes other than dened contribution schemes where the Groups obligation is to provide specified benets on retirement.
IAS 19 Employee Benets IAS 19 prescribes the accounting for dened benefit schemes in the Groups financial statements.
Obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method and discounted to a net present value using the market yield on high-quality corporate bonds.
The pension expense relating to current service cost is charged to contracts or overheads based on the function of scheme members and is included in cost of sales and net operating expenses.
The net finance cost arising from the expected interest income on plan assets and interest cost on scheme obligations is included in finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are reported in the Statement ofComprehensive Income.
The IAS 19 accounting valuations are set out in Note 28.2.
A different calculation is used for the formal triennial funding valuations undertaken by the scheme trustees to determine the future company contribution level necessary so that over time the scheme assets will meet the scheme obligations.
The principal difference between the two methods is that under the funding basis the obligations are discounted using a rate of return reecting the composition of the assets in the scheme, rather than the rate of return on high-quality corporate bonds as required by IAS 19 for the financial statements.
Details of the latest formal triennial funding valuations are set out in Note 28.3.
The assets of the schemes do not include any direct holdings of the Groups financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets of, the Group.
Principal schemes The Groups principal schemes are the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund BBPF, which includes dened contribution and dened benefit sections, and the Balfour Beatty Shared Cost Section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS.
The dened benefit sections of both schemes are funded and closed to new members with the exception of employees where employment has transferred to the Group under certain agreed arrangements.
Pension benets are based on employees pensionable service and their pensionable salary.
The schemes operate under trust law and are managed and administered by trustees on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the trust deed and rules and relevant legislation.
Dened benefit contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice.
The trustees are responsible for establishing the investment strategy and ensuring that there are sufficient assets to meet the cost of current and future benets.
These schemes expose the Group to investment and actuarial risks where additional contributions may be required if assets are not sufficient to pay future pension benets: investment risk: equity returns are a key determinant of investment return but the investment portfolio is also subject to a range of other risks typical of the investments held, for example, credit risk on corporate bond holdings.
actuarial risk: the ultimate cost of providing pension benets is affected by ination rates and members life expectancy.
The net present value of the obligations is affected by the market yield on high-quality corporate bonds used to discount the obligations.
Changes in the principal actuarial assumptions based on market data, such as ination and the discount rate, and experience, such as life expectancy, expose the Group to uctuations in the net IAS 19 liability and the net finance cost.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 139 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.1 Introduction continued Balfour Beatty Pension Fund The investment strategy of the BBPF is to hold assets of appropriate liquidity and marketability to generate income and capital growth.
The BBPF invests partly in a diversied range of assets including equities and hedge funds in anticipation that, over the longer term, they will grow in value faster than the obligations.
The equities are in the form of pooled funds and are a combination of UK, other developed market and emerging market equities.
The remaining BBPF assets are principally xed and index-linked bonds and derivatives, providing protection against movements in ination and interest rates and hence enhancing the resilience of the funding level of the scheme.
The performance ofthe assets is measured against market indices.
On 1 July 2015, the Group established a Scottish Limited Partnership SLP structure into which its investment in Consort Healthcare Birmingham Holdings Ltd Consort Birmingham, which owns the Groups 40% interest in the Birmingham Hospital PFI investment, was transferred.
The BBPF is a partner in the SLP and is entitled to a share of the income of the SLP.
In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, the SLP is deemed to be controlled by the Group, which retains the ability to substitute the investment in Consort Birmingham for other investments from time to time.
On 29 December 2016 the Group transferred into the SLP its investment in Holyrood Student Accommodation Holdings Ltd, which owns the Groups 100% interest in the Edinburgh student accommodation project.
Under IAS 19, the investment held by the BBPF in the SLP does not constitute a plan asset and therefore the pension surplus presented in these financial statements does not reect the BBPFs interest in the SLP.
Distributions from the SLP to the BBPF will be reected in the Groups financial statements as pension contributions on a cash basis.
In 2017, the BBPF received distributions of 1m from the SLP 2016: 1m.
Alongside the establishment of the SLP, agreement was reached to make a series of deficit payments to the BBPF with the first payment of 4m paid in 2016 and a further 5m in 2017.
A formal triennial funding valuation of the BBPF was carried out as at 31 March 2016.
As a result, the Group made ongoing deficit payments in addition to those set out above of 22m in 2017.
The Group will make further contributions of 18m per annum from January 2018, 19mper annum from January 2019 and 11m in 2020.
If the dividend cover ratio is below an agreed trigger level then the contributions set out above may need to be accelerated.
This agreement constitutes a minimum funding requirement MFR under IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The Group has not recognised any liabilities in relation to this MFR as any surplus of deficit contributions to the BBPF would be recoverable by way of a refund and the Group has the unconditional right to the surplus and controls therun-off of the benefit obligations once all other obligations of the BBPF have been settled.
com AR2017 140 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.1 Introduction continued Railways Pension Scheme The RPS is a shared cost scheme.
The legal responsibility of the Group in the RPS is approximately 60% of the schemes assets and liabilities based on the relevant provisions of the trust deed and rules and trustee guidelines regarding future surplus apportionments and deficit nancing.
In 2013 and previous years, the assumed cost of providing benets was split between the Group and the members in the ratio 60:40.
This had been a reasonable assumption to make of how costs might have been shared over the long term.
This assumption has been retained in relation to the cost of providing future service benets.
Since 2014, because of a declining population of active members, it became less likely that the Groups costs of meeting any deficits would be capped in line with its strict legal obligation of 60%.
It was anticipated that members might only be able to afford to fund a small proportion of the scheme deficit.
In the accounts for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015, the long-term cost of providing past service benets was assumed to be split between the Group and the members in the ratio 95:5.
From 1 January 2016 it has been assumed that the Group will be responsible for 100% of any deficit and the balance sheet assets and obligations disclosed, therefore, are equal to 100% of the total scheme assets and obligations.
The RPS invests in a range of pooled investment funds intended to generate a combination of capital growth and income and, as determined by the trustee, taking account of the characteristics of the obligations and the trustees attitude to risk.
The majority of the RPS assets that are intended to generate additional returns, over the rate at which the obligations are expected to grow, are invested in a single pooled growth fund.
This fund is invested in a wide range of asset classes and the fund manager RPMI has the discretion to vary the asset allocation to reect its views on the relative attractiveness of different asset classes at any time.
The remaining assets in the RPS are principally xed and index-linked bonds.
Following the formal triennial funding valuation carried out as at 31 December 2016, the Group agreed to make ongoing xed deficit contributions of 6m per annum which should reduce the deficit to zero by 2027.
This agreement constitutes a MFR under IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The Group has not recognised any liabilities in relation to this MFR as any surplus of deficit contributions to the RPS would be recoverable by way of a refund and the Group has the unconditional right to the surplus and controls the run-off of the benefit obligations once all other obligations of the RPS have been settled.
Other schemes Other schemes comprise unfunded post-retirement benefit obligations in Europe, the majority of which are closed to new entrants, and deferred compensation schemes in North America, where an element of employees compensation is deferred and invested in available-for-sale assets as disclosed in Note 19.1 in a trust, the assets of which are for the ultimate benefit of the employees but are available to the Groups creditors in the event of insolvency.
Membership of the principal schemes Balfour Beatty Railways Balfour Beatty Railways Pension Fund Pension Scheme Pension Fund Pension Scheme 2017 2017 2016 2016 Dened Dened Dened Dened Number benefit Average Number benefit Average Number benefit Average Number benefit Average of obligations duration of obligations duration of obligations duration of obligations duration members m Years members m Years members m Years members m Years Dened benefit active members 10 3 179343 22 12 3 17 99 90 21 deferred pensioners 11,753 1,692 23 1,234 139 22 12,414 1,754 22 1,292 151 20 pensioners, widow er s and dependants 18,186 1,817 11 1,709 209 13 18,606 1,926 11 1,686 175 12 Dened contribution 13,534 13,290 Total 43,483 3,512 17 3,036 391 17 44,322 3,683 17 3,077 416 16 28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations Principal actuarial assumptions for the IAS 19 accounting valuations of the Groups principal schemes Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Pension Pension Fund Scheme Fund Scheme 2017 2017 2016 2016 % % % % Discount rate 2.55 2.55 2.50 2.50 Ination rate RPI 3.15 3.15 3.20 3.20 CPI 2.05 2.05 2.00 2.00 Future increases in pensionable salary 2.05 2.05 2.00 2.00 Rate of increase in pensions in payment or such other rate as is guaranteed 2.95 2.20 2.95 2.15 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 141 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued In December 2017, the Group changed two elements of the discount rate methodology which resulted in a discount rate of 2.55% in the current year compared to 2.35% under the previous methodology.
The first change was to exclude certain bonds issued by Universities and entities with a UK Government guarantee, which the Group did not consider to meet the high-quality corporate bond requirement of IAS 19.
The second change, and noting IAS 19 does not specify the approach that should be adopted where there are no corporate bonds of a suitable duration, was to change from extrapolating the discount rate yield curve with reference to UK Government gilts to using the forward rates observable from relevant corporate bonds.
In the Groups view, these changes resulted in a high-quality corporate bond based discount rate yield curve which is more appropriate for the prole of the Groups UK pension obligations.
The impact of these changes in discount rate methodology is a 123m gain which was recognised as part of the actuarial gains losses for the year within the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group accounted for the discount rate change prospectively as a change in estimate.
At the same time, following independent advice from the Groups actuaries, the Group reassessed the difference between RPI and CPI measures of price ination from 1.2% at December 2016 to 1.1% at December 2017.
This resulted in an actuarial loss of 25m, which was recognised as part of the actuarial gains losses for the year within the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The BBPF actuary undertakes regular mortality investigations based on the experience exhibited by pensioners of the BBPF and due to the size of the membership of the BBPF 43,483 members at 31 December 2017 is able to make comparisons of this experience with the mortality rates set out in the various published mortality tables.
The actuary is also able to monitor changes in the exhibited mortality over time.
This research is taken into account in the Groups mortality assumptions across its various dened benefit schemes.
The mortality assumptions as at 31 December 2017 have been updated to reect the experience of Balfour Beatty pensioners for the period 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017.
The mortality tables adopted for the 2017 IAS 19 valuations are the Self-Administered Pension Scheme SAPS S2tables 2016: SAPS S2 tables with a multiplier of 102% for all male and female members 2016: 102% and 106% for female widows and dependants 2016: 106% : all with future improvements in line with the CMI 2016 core projection model 2016: CMI 2015 core projectionmodel, with long-term improvement rates of 1.25% per annum and 1.00% per annum for males and females respectively 2016: 1.25% per annum and 1.00% per annum.
2017 2016 Average life Average life expectancy expectancy at 65 years of age at 65 years of age Male Female Male Female Members in receipt of a pension 21.9 23.6 22.1 23.9 Members not yet in receipt of a pension current age 50 23.0 24.6 23.4 25.0 Amounts recognised in the income statement The BBPF dened contribution employer contributions paid and charged to the income statement have been separately identied in the table below and the dened contribution section assets and liabilities amounting to 460m 2016: 405m have been excluded from the tables on pages 142 to 144.
Dened contribution charges for other schemes include contributions to multi-employer pension schemes.
Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Other Pension Pension Other Fund Scheme schemes Total Fund Scheme schemes Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m m m Group Current service cost 2 1 3 6 2 1 3 6 Dened contribution charge 43 3 46 44 44 Included in employee costs Note 7 45 1 6 52 46 1 3 50 Interest income 89 7 96 108 10 118 Interest cost 90 10 2 102 109 11 2 122 Net finance cost Note 9 1 3 2 6 1 1 2 4 Settlements Note 7 11 2 Total charged to income statement 46 4 8 58 46 1 5 52 Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Other Pension Pension Other Fund Scheme schemes Total Fund Scheme schemes Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m m m Actuarial movements on pension schemeobligations 72 20 2 94 710 115 825 Actuarial movements on pension schemeassets 129 19 148 652 52 704 Total actuarial movements recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income Note30.1 201 39 2 242 58 63 121 Cumulative actuarial movements recognised inthe Statement of Comprehensive Income 133 68 27 228 334 107 29 470 The actual return on plan assets was a gain of 244m 2016: 822m.
com AR2017 142 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued Amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Other Pension Pension Other Fund Scheme schemes Total Fund Scheme schemes Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m m m Present value of obligations 3,512 391 53 3,956 3,683 416 56 4,155 Fair value of plan assets 3,668 320 3,988 3,621 303 3,924 Asset liabilities in the balance sheet 156 71 53 32 62 113 56 231 Available-for-sale investments in mutual funds of 22m 2016: 23m are held to satisfy the Groups deferred compensation obligations Note 19.1.
The dened benefit obligation comprises 53m 2016: 56m arising from wholly unfunded plans and 3,903m 2016: 4,099m arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded.
Movement in the present value of obligations Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Other Pension Pension Other Fund Scheme schemes Total Fund Scheme schemes Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m m m At 1 January 3,683 416 56 4,155 3,031 314 52 3,397 Currency translation differences 22 9 9 Current service cost 2 1 3 6 2 1 3 6 Interest cost 90 10 2 102 109 11 2 122 Actuarial movements from changes in discount rate methodology 110 13 123 Actuarial movements from reassessing thedifference between RPI and CPI 20 5 25 33 11 44 Other financial actuarial movements 64 7 2 69 700 103 3 806 Actuarial movements from changes indemographic assumptions 40 4 44 50 1 51 Experience gains 615 21 73 3 76 Total actuarial movements 72 20 2 94 710 115 825 Benets paid 191 16 4 211 168 16 4 188 Settlements 19 10 Disposal of parts of Rail Germany Notes 32.3.
11 66 At 31 December 3,512 391 53 3,956 3,683 416 56 4,155 Movement in the fair value of plan assets Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Pension Pension Fund Scheme Total Fund Scheme Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m At 1 January 3,621 303 3,924 2,988 263 3,251 Interest income 89 7 96 108 10 118 Actuarial movements 129 19 148 652 52 704 Contributions from employer regular funding 112 2 2 ongoing deficit funding 19 6 25 39 2 41 Benets paid 191 16 207 168 16 184 Settlements 8 8 At 31 December 3,668 320 3,988 3,621 303 3,924 Ongoing deficit funding contributions presented above for BBPF of 19m are less than the amounts prescribed in the funding agreement of 27m due to overpaid contributions in2016 of 3m, and 5m of BBPF running costs which are funded from ongoing deficit contributions as per the BBPF schedule of contributions.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 143 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued Fair value of the assets held by the schemes at 31 December 2017 2016 Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Pension Pension Fund Scheme Total Fund Scheme Total m m m m m m Return-seeking 1,126 222 1,348 1,221 224 1,445 Developed nation equities 384 384 370 370 Emerging market equities 36 36 117 117 Hedge funds 337 337 400 400 Return-seeking growth pooled funds 222 222 224 224 Other return-seeking assets 369 369 334 334 Liability-matching bond-type assets 2,060 86 2,146 2,119 78 2,197 Corporate bonds 621 621 698 698 Fixed interest gilts 397 397 599 599 Index-linked gilts 887 887 627 627 Liability-matching pooled funds 86 86 7878 Interest and ination rate swaps 155 155 195 195 Property 215 215 169 169 Secure income assets 115 115 51 51 Other 152 12 164 61 1 62 Total 3,668 320 3,988 3,621 303 3,924 The amounts represent 100% of the schemes assets.
Of the assets included above, 1,955m 2016: 2,048m are assets that have quoted prices in active markets, of which 671m 2016: 822m relate to the corporate bonds, developed nation equities and emerging market equities.
Estimated contributions expected to be paid to the Groups principal dened benefit schemes during 2018 Balfour Beatty Railways Pension Pension Fund Scheme Total 2018 2018 2018 m m m Regular funding 213 Ongoing deficit funding 25 6 31 Total required by schedule of contributions 27 7 34 Estimated BBPF running costs to be funded from ongoing deficit contributions 4 4 Estimated total cash contributions 23 7 30 The running costs of the BBPF are funded from ongoing deficit contributions as per the BBPF schedule of contributions.
com AR2017 144 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible changes in assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
In each case the relevant change in assumption occurs in isolation from potential changes in other assumptions.
In practice more than one variable is likely to change at the same time.
The sensitivities have been calculated using the projected unit credit method.
Sensitivity of the Groups retirement benefit obligations at 31 December 2017 to different actuarial assumptions Decrease Decrease Percentage increase in increase in points obligations obligations Years % m Increase in discount rate 0.5% 8.1 % 314 Increase in market expectation of RPI ination 0.5% 5.7% 223 Increase in salary growth 0.5% 0.0% 1 Increase in life expectancy 1 year 4.1% 164 Sensitivity of the Groups retirement benefit assets at 31 December 2017 to changes in market conditions Decrease Decrease increase increase Percentage in assets in assets points % m Increase in interest rates 0.5% 8.5 % 335 Increase in market expectation of RPI ination 0.5% 5.7% 223 The asset sensitivities only take into account the impact of the changes in market conditions on bond type assets.
The value of the schemes return-seeking assets is not directly correlated with movements in interest rates or RPI ination.
Year end historical information for the Groups retirement dened benefit schemes 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 m m m m m Present value of obligations 3,956 4,155 3,397 3,518 3,229 Fair value of assets 3,988 3,924 3,251 3,390 2,795 Surplus deficit 32 231 146 128 434 Experience adjustment for obligations 21 76 1 7 16 Experience adjustment for assets 148 704 154 574 44 Total deficit funding 25 41 66 49 59 28.3 Latest formal triennial funding valuations Balfour Beatty Railways Pension Pension Fund Scheme m m Date of last formal triennial funding valuation 31 03 2016 31 12 2016 Scheme deficit Market value of assets 3,536 319 Present value of obligations 3,642 367 deficit in dened benefit scheme 106 48 Funding level 97.1% 86.9% Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 145 29 Share capital 29.1 Ordinary shares of 50p each Issued Million m At 31 December 2016 and 2017 690 345 All issued ordinary shares are fully paid.
Ordinary shares carry no right to xed income but each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
No ordinary shares were issued during the current year.
29.2 Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each Issued Million m At 31 December 2016 and 2017 112 1 All issued preference shares are fully paid.
During the current and prior year, no preference shares were repurchased for cancellation by the Company.
Holders of preference shares are entitled to a preferential dividend equivalent to a gross payment of 10.75p per preference share per annum, payable half-yearly.
A preference dividend of 5.375p per cumulative convertible redeemable preference share of 1p was paid on 1 July 2017 in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2017.
A preference dividend of 5.375p per cumulative convertible redeemable preference share of 1p was paid on 1 January 2018 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2017.
On 1 July 2020, any preference shares still outstanding are redeemable at 1 each, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, unless the holder exercises any option granted by the Company to extend the redemption date.
The maximum redemption value of all of the issued and outstanding preference shares, excluding any arrears or accruals of dividend, was 112m at 31 December 2017 2016: 112m.
At the option of the holder, preference shares are convertible on the first day of the next calendar month following receipt of the conversion notice into new Balfour Beatty plc ordinary shares effectively on the basis of 24.69136 ordinary shares for every 100 preference shares, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.
The Company is entitled to convert all outstanding preference shares into ordinary shares ifthere are fewer than 44,281,239 preference shares in issue or if the average of the closing mid-market price for a Balfour Beatty plc ordinary share during a 30-day period exceeds 810p, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.
The preference shares carry no voting rights at a general meeting of the Company, except where the dividend is six months or more in arrears, or where the business of the meeting includes a resolution which directly affects the rights and privileges attached to the preference shares or a resolution for the winding up of the Company.
On winding up the Company, holders are entitled to receive the sum of 1 per preference share, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, in priority to any payment on any other class of shares.
The preference shares are a compound instrument, comprising equity and liability components.
The fair value of the liability component at the date of issue, included under non-current liabilities, was estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of 13.5% per annum for a similar non-convertible instrument.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the preference shares and the fair value assigned to theliability component, at the date of issue, representing the equity conversion component at 18m, was included in equity holders equity, netof deferred tax.
Liability component recognised in the Balance Sheet 2017 2016 m m Redemption value of shares in issue at 1 January 112 112 Equity component 18 18 Interest element 6 4 Liability component at 1 January at amortised cost 100 98 Interest accretion 3 2 Liability component at 31 December at amortised cost 103 100 The fair value of the liability component of the preference shares at 31 December 2017 amounted to 126m 2016: 135m.
The fair value is determined by using the market price of the preference shares at the reporting date and attributing a fair value to the equity component.
Interest expense on the preference shares is calculated using the effective interest method.
29.3 Convertible bonds On 3 December 2013, the Group issued convertible bonds for net proceeds of 246m.
The convertible bonds are compound instruments comprising equity and liability components.
The fair value of the liability component was estimated as 220m using the prevailing market rate at the date of issue for a similar non-convertible instrument.
The difference between the net proceeds and the fair value of the liability represented the embedded option to convert the liability into the Companys ordinary shares being the equity component of 26m.
At 31 December 2017, 2m of this equity component was transferred to retained earnings on the repurchase of 21m worth of convertible bonds.
com AR2017 146 Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Movements in equity 30.1 Group Other reserves Share Equity of joint component ventures of and preference CalledShare associates shares and PPP Currency Retained Nonup share premium Special reserves convertible Hedging financial translation profits controlling capital account reserve Note 18.6 bonds reserves assets reserve Other losses interests Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 345 65 22 184 44 30 25 135 17 50 5 762 profit for the year 60 108 168 Currency translation differences 18 30 48 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities 4 242 246 Fair value revaluations PPP financial assets 60 3 63 cash ow hedges 11 4 15 available-for-sale investments in mutual funds 3 3 Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income @ statement on disposal 85 85 Tax on items recognised in @ other comprehensive income 13 1 1 2 37 50 Total comprehensive income loss for theyear 19 3 2 30 5 313 312 Ordinary dividends 20 20 Joint ventures and associates dividends 69 69 Movements relating to share-based payments 6 1 7 Reserve transfers relating to joint venture and associate disposals 21 21 Minority interests 5 5 Convertible bonds repurchase 2 2 At 31 December 2017 345 65 22 113 42 27 27 105 28 336 10 1,066 @ Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal has no associated tax effect.
Representing the minority interests share of the impact of fair valuing the loan instrument which was injected into the related Group subsidiary.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 147 30 Movements in equity continued 30.1 Group continued Other reserves Share Equity of joint component ventures of and preference CalledShare associates shares and PPP Currency Nonup share premium Special reserves convertible Hedging financial translation Retained controlling capital account reserve Note 18.6 bonds reserves assets reserve Other profits interests Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 345 65 22 196 44 58 58 87 13 54 4 830 profit loss for the year 56 32 24 Currency translation differences 41 50 1 92 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities 1 121 120 Fair value revaluations PPP financial assets 10 27 37 cash ow hedges 92 16 108 available-for-sale investments in mutual funds 1 1 Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income @ statement on disposal 9 48 63 2 8 Tax on items recognised in @ other comprehensive income 15 4 3 2 16 Total comprehensive income loss for theyear 40 28 33 48 1 151 1 66 Ordinary dividends 6 6 Joint ventures and associates dividends 43 43 Movements relating to share-based payments 3 1 4 Reserve transfers relating to joint venture and associate disposals 9 9 At 31 December 2016 345 65 22 184 44 30 25 135 17 50 5 762 @ Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal has no associated tax effect.
com AR2017 148 Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Movements in equity continued 30.2 Company Other reserves Equity component of preference Called-up Share shares and share premium Special convertible Retained capital account reserve bonds Other profits Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 345 65 22 44 72 604 1,152 Loss for the year 10 10 Currency translation differences 8 8 Total comprehensive loss for the year 18 18 Ordinary dividends 6 6 Movements relating to share-based payments 6 2 4 At 31 December 2016 345 65 22 44 78 578 1,132 Loss for the year 54 54 Currency translation differences 19 19 Total comprehensive loss for the year 35 35 Ordinary dividends 20 20 Movements relating to share-based payments 2 1 1 Convertible bonds repurchase 2 2 At 31 December 2017 345 65 22 42 80 524 1,078 As permitted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its Statement of Comprehensive Income including the profit and loss account for the year.
Balfour Beatty plc reported a loss for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 of 54m 2016: 10m loss.
The retained profits of Balfour Beatty plc are wholly distributable.
By special resolution on 13 May 2004, confirmed by the court on 16 June2004, the share premium account was reduced by 181m and the 4m capital redemption reserve was cancelled, effective on 25 June 2004, and a special reserve of 185m was created.
This reserve becomes distributable to the extent of future increases in share capital andshare premium account, of which nil occurred in 2017 2016: nil.
30.3 Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust The retained profits in the Group and the retained profits of the Company are stated net of investments in Balfour Beatty plc ordinary shares acquired by the Groups employee discretionary trust, the Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust, to satisfy awards under the Performance Share Plan, the Executive Buyout Scheme, the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted Share Plan.
The market value of the 9.7m 2016: 10.3m shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2017 was 26.2m 2016: 27.8m.
The carrying value of these shares is 24.1m 2016: 25.6m.
Following conrmation of the performance criteria at the end of the performance period in the case of the Performance Share Plan and the Executive Buyout Scheme, and at the end of the vesting period in the case of the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted Share Plan, the appropriate number of shares will be unconditionally transferred to participants.
In 2017, 0.5m shares were transferred to participants in relation to the March 2014 awards under the Performance Share Plan 2016: nil shares were transferred to participants in relation to the April2013 awards under the Performance Share Plan, 0.4m shares were transferred to participants in relation to the January 2015 awards under the Executive Buyout Scheme 2016: nil, and 0.3m shares were transferred to participants in relation to awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan 2016: 0.3m shares.
The Trustees have waived the rights to dividends on shares held by the trust.
Participants in the schemes receive an award of shares torepresent the dividends which would have been payable on the shares since the date of grant.
Other reserves in the Group and Company include 10.1m 2016: 5.8m relating to unvested Performance Share Plan awards, 3.1m 2016: 1.5m relating to unvested Restricted Share Plan awards, 1.2m 2016: 1.5m relating to unvested Executive Buyout Scheme awards and 2.4m 2016: 1.9m relating to unvested Deferred Bonus Plan awards.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 149 31 Notes to the statement of cash ows 31.1 Cash generated from used in operations Continuing operations Nonunderlying Underlying items Discontinued 1 items Note 10 operations 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 Notes m m m m m profit loss from operations 196 48 6 154 39 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 18 59 1 60 56 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 28 28 30 Depreciation of investment properties 17 1 1 Amortisation of other intangible assets 15 13 9 22 21 Impairment of IT intangible assets 15 1 Pension deficit payments 28.2 25 25 41 Pension fund settlement gain 10 1 Movements relating to share-based payments 33 9 9 7 Gain on disposal of investments in infrastructure concessions 32.2 86 86 65 Net gain on disposal of other businesses 32.2 17 5 22 32 profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6 6 5 Impairment of land relating to Blackpool Airport 10 3 Other non-cash items 2 1 1 Operating cash ows before movements in working capital 69 55 14 99 Increase decrease in operating working capital 7 34 27 48 Inventories and non-construction work in progress 12 12 42 Due from construction contract customers 17 3 14 5 Trade and other receivables 63 32 95 134 Due to construction contract customers 1 22 21 41 Trade and other payables 65 27 92 60 Provisions 25 4 29 68 Cash generated from used in operations 62 21 41 147 1 Before non-underlying items Notes 2.10 and 10.
31.2 Cash and cash equivalents Group Group Company Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Cash and deposits 717 605 71 50 Term deposits 116 157 63 117 Cash balances within infrastructure concessions 135 7 Bank overdrafts 1 968 768 134 167 Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three months and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
31.3 Analysis of movement in borrowings Infrastructure concessions non-recourse project Loans under finance US private Convertible committed Total 2017 placement bonds facilities Other 2017 m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 240 285 240 50 14 829 Currency translation differences 426 30 Accretion on convertible bonds 7 7 Proceeds from new loans 212 212 Repayments of loans 4 21 50 2 77 Amortisation of arrangement fees 1 1 Fair value adjustment on loan attributable to minority interest 4 4 At 31 December 2017 440 259 226 13 938 balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 150 Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Notes to the statements of cash ows continued 31.3 Analysis of movement in borrowings continued Infrastructure concessions non-recourse Loans under project US private Convertible committed finance placement bonds facilities Other Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 385 236 233 14 868 Currency translation differences 6 49 1 54 Accretion on convertible bonds 7 7 Proceeds from new loans 65 50 2 117 Repayments of loans 25 1 26 Disposal of non-recourse borrowings Note 32.3.
11 191 191 At 31 December 2016 240 285 240 50 14 829 During the year ended 31 December 2017, the main movement in borrowings within the infrastructure concessions non-recourse project finance was an increase in new loans of 212m 2016: 65m relating primarily to the development of student accommodation at the University of Sussex, which has been accounted for as an IFRIC 12 intangible.
Within the recourse element of the Groups borrowings, 21m of convertible bonds have been repurchased by the Group and 50m of the drawn committed facility has been repaid in the year.
The Groups entire revolving credit facility of 400m was undrawn at 31 December 2017.
32 Acquisitions and disposals 32.1 Current and prior year acquisitions There were no material acquisitions in 2017.
On 30 September 2016, the Group acquired 100% of Omnicom Engineering Ltd for a purchase price of 3m.
The consideration included a deferred consideration element of 0.3m which was subject to Omnicom securing key orders at an acceptable level of margin and was paid in 2017.
The acquisition resulted in goodwill of 2m.
Deferred consideration paid during 2017 in respect of acquisitions completed in earlier years was 3m 2016: 3m.
This related to the Groups acquisition of Centex Construction in 2007.
32.2 Current year disposals Direct costs incurred, indemnity provisions Amount created recycled and NonPercentage Cash Net assets from fair value Underlying underlying disposed consideration disposed reserves uplift gain gain loss Notes Disposal date Entity business % m m m m m m 32.2.
2 12 September 2017 Regional & City Airports Blackpool Holdings Ltd 100% 4 5 1 32.2.
Net assets disposed include loan receivables due to the Company from BK Gulf LLC of 17m which were settled as part of the disposal.
# Cash consideration above reects elements which have been deferred and therefore discounted at year end.
These amount to 5m and have been included in due on disposals within trade and other receivables.
@ Of this amount, 103m was received in 2017.
The remaining 62m has been included in due on disposals within trade and other receivables and was subsequently received on23 February 2018.
& Net assets disposed include 6m of subordinated debt receivable which was settled as part of the disposal.
The balance also includes 2m of excess bid costs recovered whichwere released and credited to the gain on disposal.
1 On 26 January 2017, the Group reached agreement to sell its 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC to its joint venture partner for a total cash consideration of 11m, an element of which was deferred.
The sale subsequently completed on 1 March 2017.
The Groups share of results in these entities is presented as part of its discontinued operations with comparatives restated accordingly.
The 5m gain on the disposal is presented as non-underlying within discontinued operations.
2 On 12 September 2017, the Group disposed of its entire 100% interest in Regional & City Airports Blackpool Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration of 4m.
The disposal resulted in a 1m loss being recognised as a non-underlying item within continuing operations.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 151 32 Acquisitions and disposals continued 32.2 Current year disposals continued 32.2.
3 On 27 October 2017, the Group disposed of its 100% interest in Heery International Inc for a cash consideration of 43m.
The disposal resulted in a net gain of 18m being recognised as a non-underlying item within continuing operations, comprising a gain of 12m in respect of net assets disposed after direct costs and indemnity provisions incurred of 10m and a gain of 6m in respect of cumulative foreign exchange reserves recycled to the income statement.
The disposal included cash disposed of 5m.
4 On 21 December 2017, the Group disposed of a 12.5% interest in Connect Plus M25 Holdings Ltd to Dalmore for a cash consideration of 103m.
Subsequently on 29 December 2017, the Group disposed of a further 7.5% interest in the joint venture for a cash consideration of 62m.
On this date, the Group ceased to jointly control this 7.5% interest as Equitix had the right to acquire this stake for a cash consideration of 62m which was exercisable up until 13 March 2018.
At the same time, the Group had an unconditional right to sell the stake to Dalmore for an identical price if Equitix failed to exercise its right to acquire.
The completion of this portion of the disposal was ongoing at the balance sheet date and therefore the consideration of 62m has been included in trade and other receivables as amounts due on disposals.
This consideration was subsequently received on 23 February 2018 following completion of the disposal to Equitix.
These disposals resulted in a net gain of 86m comprising a gain of 1m in respect of the Groups investment in the joint venture and a gain of 85m in respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement on disposal.
5 On 21 November 2016, the Group reached agreement to dispose of its 49% interest in Balfour Beatty Sakti Indonesia to its joint venture partner for a payment by the Group of 3m reecting the Groups share of the net liabilities of the joint venture.
This was recognised as a disposal in 2016 as completion of the sale was not subject to any substantive terms at 31 December 2016.
The Group subsequently completed the disposal in March 2017.
A payment of 3m was made by the Group to the purchaser following the completion of this disposal.
6 Subsidiaries net assets disposed Regional & City Heery Airports International Blackpool Inc Total Net assets disposed Notes Holdings Ltd m m Intangible assets goodwill 14 17 17 Property, plant and equipment 16.1 62 8 Deferred taxation 27.1 1 9 8 Due to construction contract customers 6 6 Trade and other receivables 18 18 Trade and other payables 22 22 Provisions 25 2 2 Cash 5 5 521 26 Costs directly related to the sale 10 10 531 36 Cash consideration 4 43 47 Amounts recycled from reserves 6 6 Loss gain on disposal 1 18 17 Net cash ow effect Total consideration 443 47 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 5 5 Transaction costs paid 2 2 Net cash consideration 436 40 balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 152 Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Acquisitions and disposals continued 32.3 Prior year disposals Direct costs incurred, indemnity Amount provisions recycled created and NonPercentage Cash Net assets from fair value Underlying underlying disposed consideration disposed reserves uplift gain gain loss Notes Disposal date Entity business % m m m m m m & 32.3.
3 1 July 2016 BSF Schools: Islington, Southwark, Blackburn with Darwen & Bolton, Oldham, Hertfordshire, Ealing, Derby City 80 90% 73 27 8 38 32.3.
8 21 November 2016 Balfour Beatty Sakti Indonesia 49% 3 3 32.3.
9 15 December 2016 Streetlighting: Sunderland, South Tyneside, Coventry, Cambridgeshire, Northamptonshire 80% 33 37 15 11 # 202 137 8 3 65 5 Subsidiary.
# Total cash consideration received by the Group also includes 9m of cash received in respect of Parsons Brinckerhoff Note 32.3.
10 and 2m of deferred cash consideration received in respect of SSL Note 10.1.
& Net assets disposed include amounts due to the joint venture of 4m held by the Company.
1 On 15 April 2016, the Group disposed of a 30% interest in Connect M1-A1 Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration of 15m.
The infrastructure concession disposal resulted in a net gain of 5m being recognised within underlying operating profit.
The Group retains a20% interest in Connect M1-A1 Holdings Ltd. 32.3.
2 On 5 May 2016, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Living & Learning Holdings Custodians Pty Ltd Living & Learning Unit Trust for a cash consideration of 19m.
The infrastructure concession disposal resulted in a net gain of 9m being recognised within underlying operating profit, comprising: a gain of 18m in respect of the investment in the joint venture, an 8m loss in respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement and 1m costs of disposal incurred.
3 On 1 July 2016, the Group disposed of its entire interest in seven BSF Building Schools for the Future projects: Islington, Southwark, Blackburn with Darwen & Bolton, Oldham, Hertfordshire, Ealing and Derby City for a cash consideration of 73m.
On this date, the Group ceased to jointly control these BSF projects by virtue of a put call structure with a preferred bidder.
The disposal completed on 22 August 2016.
The infrastructure concession disposal resulted in a net gain of 38m being recognised within underlying operating profit, comprising: a gain of 46m in respect of the investments in the joint ventures and an 8m loss in respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement.
4 On 1 July 2016, the Group disposed of its 17.8% interest in the BBIP Infrastructure Fund for an initial cash consideration of 48m.
The disposal resulted in a net gain of 6m being recognised within non-underlying operating profit, comprising: a gain of nil in respect of theinvestment in the associated undertaking, a 7m gain in respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement and 1m costs of disposal incurred.
5 On 1 July 2016, the Group disposed of its 100% interest in the BBIP Advisor for a cash consideration of nil.
The disposal resulted in a net loss of 3m being recognised within non-underlying operating profit, comprising a loss of 3m in respect of the investment in the subsidiary.
6 On 7 September 2016, the Group disposed of its right to a 40% interest in Humber Gateway OFTO Holdings Ltd.
The infrastructure concession disposal resulted in a net gain of 2m being recognised within underlying operating profit comprising a 2m fee received on disposing of the Groups interest.
The Group retains a 20% interest in Humber Gateway OFTO Holdings Ltd. 32.3.
7 On 21 September 2016, as part of the ongoing process to exit the Mainland European rail business, the Group disposed of part of its Rail business in Germany to Tianjin Keyvia Electric Co Ltd for a cash consideration of 15m.
The related assets disposed were impaired by 11m in 2015 to reect the value of the agreed consideration which was recognised within non-underlying items refer to Note 10.1.
The disposal included cash disposed of 10m.
8 On 21 November 2016, the Group reached agreement to dispose of its 49% interest in Balfour Beatty Sakti Indonesia to its joint venture partner for a payment by the Group of 3m reecting the Groups share of the net liabilities of the joint venture.
This has been recognised as a disposal in the year as completion of the sale is not subject to any substantive terms at the year end.
The amount due tothepurchaser has been recognised in amounts due on disposal at 31 December 2016 within trade and other payables refer to Note 24 and was paid in 2017.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 153 32 Acquisitions and disposals continued 32.3 Prior year disposals continued 32.3.
9 On 16 December 2016, the Group disposed of 80% interests in five streetlighting projects for a cash consideration of 33m.
This infrastructure concession disposal resulted in a net gain of 11m being recognised within underlying operating profit, comprising: a loss of 4m in respect of the investments in subsidiaries and a 15m gain in respect of fair value reserves recycled to the income statement.
The Group retains 20% interests in the infrastructure concession projects which are accounted for as joint ventures under the equity method.
The disposal included cash disposed of 16m.
10 In 2016, the Group reached a settlement with the purchaser of Parsons Brinckerhoff PB in relation to outstanding tax matters and indemnities.
At the same time, provisions in relation to these matters have been released, resulting in an overall gain to the Group of 24m.
11 Prior year subsidiaries net assets disposed Rail BBIP & Streetlighting Germany Advisor Total Net assets disposed Notes m m m m PPP financial assets 20 279 279 Intangible assets other 15 3 3 Property, plant and equipment 16.1 1 1 Deferred taxation 27.1 3 3 Inventories and non-construction work in progress 5 5 Due from construction contract customers 21 21 Trade and other receivables 48 12 Trade and other payables 3 24 27 Provisions 25 1 1 Retirement benefit liabilities 28.2 6 6 Derivative financial instruments 57 57 Cash 16 10 26 Non-recourse borrowings 31.3 191 191 Net assets of interest retained 18.1 8 8 37 14 3 54 Reserves recycled to the income statement 15 2 17 Costs directly related to the sale 1 1 22 13 3 38 Cash consideration 33 15 48 Gain loss on disposal 11 2 3 10 Net cash ow effect Total consideration 33 15 48 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 16 10 26 Net cash consideration 17 5 22 Net receipt in relation to the disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff 32.3.
10 9 31 & Sale of parts of Rail Germany to Tianjin Keyvia Electric Co Ltd. balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 154 Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Share-based payments The Company operates four equity-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the Executive Buyout Scheme EBS, the Performance Share Plan PSP, the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP and the Restricted Share Plan RSP.
The Group recognised total expenses relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions of 9.4m in 2017 2016: 7.4m.
Refer to the Remuneration report for details ofthe various schemes.
Movements in share plans EBS conditional PSP conditional DBP conditional RSP conditional 2017 number of awards awards awards awards awards Outstanding at 1 January 1,905,260 8,128,097 1,464,322 1,936,946 Granted during the year 3,087,443 632,308 1,539,448 Awards in lieu of dividends 19,054 28,974 Forfeited during the year 189,854 821,131 76,848 342,624 Exercised during the year 445,233 489,184 329,761 20,084 Expired during the year Outstanding at 31 December 1,270,173 9,905,225 1,709,075 3,142,660 Exercisable at 31 December 61,662 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 1.31.31.6 Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for awards exercised in the year 271.6p 139.3p 272.1p 274.6p EBS conditional PSP conditional DBP conditional RSP conditional 2016 number of awards awards awards awards awards Outstanding at 1 January 1,905,260 7,105,303 1,249,236 1,105,658 Granted during the year 3,768,644 651,306 986,096 Awards in lieu of dividends 4,676 5,592 Forfeited during the year 579,335 127,790 159,400 Exercised during the year 285,853 1,000 Expired during the year 2,166,515 27,253 Outstanding at 31 December 1,905,260 8,128,097 1,464,322 1,936,946 Exercisable at 31 December 30,381 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 0.7 1.7 1.5 1.8 Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for awards exercised in the year n a n a 252.4p 228.0p The principal assumptions, including expected volatility determined from the historical weekly share price movements over the three-year period immediately preceding the award date, used by the consultants in the stochastic model for the 33.3% of the PSP awards granted in2017 subject to market conditions, were: Closing Calculated share Expected Expected Risk-free fair value price on volatility of term of interest of an award date shares awards rate award Award date Name of award Pence % Years % Pence 7 June 2017 PSP award 271.0 30.0 3.0 0.1 132.2 For the 66.7% of the PSP awards granted in 2017 subject to non-market conditions and for the DBP and RSP awards granted in 2017, thefair value of the awards is the closing share price before award date.
34 Commitments Capital expenditure authorised and contracted for which has not been provided for in the financial statements amounted to 2m 2016: 5m in the Group and nil 2016: nil in the Company.
The Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding and subordinated debt in Infrastructure Investments projects which have reached financial close.
Refer to Note 39 f. The Group leases land and buildings, equipment and other various assets under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement for continuing operations is disclosed in Note 6.1.
Future operating lease expenditure commitments Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other 2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m Due within one year 22 33 25 41 Due between one and five years 47 48 63 53 Due after more than five years 15 3 24 2 84 84 112 96 The Company did not have any future operating lease expenditure commitments as at 31 December 2017 2016: nil.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 155 34 Commitments continued Future committed operating lease income Land and Land and buildings buildings 2017 2016 m m Due within one year 7 6 Due between one and five years 6 11 13 17 The Company did not have any future committed operating lease income as at 31 December 2017 2016: nil.
35 Contingent liabilities The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into counterindemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Groups own contracts and given guarantees in respect of their share of certain contractual obligations of joint ventures and associates and certain retirement benefit liabilities of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund and the Railways Pension Scheme.
Guarantees are treated as contingent liabilities until such time as it becomes probable payment will be required under theterms of the guarantee.
Provision has been made for the Directors best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress.
The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on thatadvice, that the action is unlikely to succeed, or that the Group cannot make a sufciently reliable estimate of the potential obligation.
36 Related party transactions Joint ventures and associates The Group has contracted with, provided services to, and received management fees from, certain joint ventures and associates amounting to 279m 2016: 344m.
These transactions occurred in the normal course of business at market rates and terms.
In addition, the Group procured equipment and labour on behalf of certain joint ventures and associates which were recharged at cost with no mark-up.
The amounts due from or to joint ventures and associates at the reporting date are disclosed in Notes 23 and 24 respectively.
Transactions with non-Group members The Group also entered into transactions and had amounts outstanding with related parties which are not members of the Group as set out below.
These companies were related parties as they are controlled or jointly controlled by a non-executive director of Balfour Beatty plc.
2017 2016 m m Anglian Water Group Ltd Sale of goods & services 18 13 Amounts owed by related parties 3 URENCO Ltd Sale of goods & services 72 62 Amounts owed by related parties 5 All transactions with these related parties were conducted on normal commercial terms, equivalent to those conducted with external parties.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No expense has been recognised in the period for bad or doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Company 2017 2016 m m Short-term benets 2.938 2.384 Share-based payments 2.584 1.612 5.522 3.996 Key management personnel comprise the executive Directors who are directly responsible for the Groups activities and the non-executive Directors.
The compensation included above is in respect of the period of the year during which the individuals were Directors.
Further details of Directors emoluments, post-employment benets and interests are set out in the 2017 Remuneration report on pages76to 87. balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 156 Notes to the financial statements continued 37 Events after the reporting date On 15 January 2018, Carillion plc led for compulsory liquidation.
The Group has assessed the liquidation of Carillion plc as an adjusting post balance sheet event and in light of this, the Group has recognised a one-off non-underlying loss provision of 44m in 2017, which reects the Groups additional loss onthe contract as a result of Carillions liquidation.
On 14 February 2018, the Group repurchased a further 17.7m of its convertible bonds, which will result in a loss on settlement of 0.3m.
This settlement will also trigger a further 2m of reserves relating to the equity component of the repurchased bonds being transferred fromother reserves into retained earnings.
Following this settlement, the Groups outstanding bonds on maturity inDecember 2018 amount to 213.7m.
On 19 February 2018, the Group agreed the disposal of a further 5% interest in Connect Plus M25 Holdings Ltd to Equitix for a cash consideration of 42m, equivalent to the price of the 20% disposal in 2017.
The expected profit on disposal for this transaction is 21m.
On 23 February 2018, the Group completed this transaction and received from Equitix the full cash consideration of 104m, inclusive of the 62m outstanding at the reporting date as detailed in Note 32.2.
The Group continues to own a 15% interest in Connect Plus M25 Holdings Ltd. On 7 March 2018, the Group repaid the first tranche of its US private placement notes amounting to US$45m 32.5m.
US$305m remain outstanding, with the next tranche of US$46m being due in March 2020 and the remaining loan notes falling due in March 2023 and March 2025.
38 Financial instruments Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure its ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The components of capital are as follows: equity attributable to equity holders of the Company comprising issued ordinary share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 29.1 and 30: preference shares as disclosed in Note 29.2: US private placement as disclosed in Note 26: convertible bonds as disclosed in Note 26: and cash and cash equivalents and borrowings as disclosed inNote 26.
The Group maintains or adjusts its capital structure through the payment of dividends to equity holders, issue of new shares and buyback of existing shares, and drawdown of new borrowings and repayment of existing borrowings.
The policy of the Group is to ensure an appropriate balance between cash, borrowings other than the non-recourse borrowings of companies engaged inInfrastructure Investments projects, working capital and the value in the Infrastructure Investments investment portfolio.
The overall capital risk management strategy of the Group remains unchanged from 2016.
Categories of financial instruments Loans and Loans and receivables Financial AvailableHeld to receivables Financial AvailableHeld to at amortised liabilities at for-sale maturity at amortised liabilities at for-sale maturity cost, cash amortised financial financial cost, cash amortised financial financial and deposits cost assets assets Derivatives and deposits cost assets assets Derivatives 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m m m m m Financial assets Fixed rate bonds and treasury stock 17 22 Mutual funds 22 23 PPP financial assets 163 163 Cash and deposits 968 769 Trade and other receivables 1,080 1,210 Derivatives 3 4 Total 2,048 185 17 3 1,979 186 22 4 Financial liabilities Liability component of preference shares 103 100 Trade and other payables 1,585 1,772 Unsecured borrowings 498 588 Secured borrowings 1 Infrastructure concessions non-recourse term loans 440 240 Derivatives 35 39 Total 2,626 35 2,701 39 Net 2,048 2,626 185 17 32 1,979 2,701 186 22 35 Current year comprehensive income loss excluding share of joint ventures andassociates 31 67 17 1 4 52 78 14 1 32 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 157 38 Financial instruments continued Derivatives Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities NonNonNonNonCurrent current Total Current current Total Current current Total Current current Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m m m m m m m Foreign currency contracts Held for trading at fair value through Income Statement 1 1 2 2 Designated as cash ow hedges 2 1 3 1 1 3 3 Interest rate swaps Designated as cash ow hedges 4 30 34 4 33 37 2 1 3 5 30 35 1 3 4 6 33 39 Non-derivative financial liabilities gross maturity The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities.
The table reects the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial liabilities including interest that will accrue on those liabilities except where the Group is entitled to and intends to repay the liability before its maturity.
The discount column represents the possible future cash ows included in the maturity analysis, such as future interest, that are not included in the carrying value of the financial liability.
Maturity prole of the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities at 31 December Total nonNon-recourse Other derivative project Other financial financial Carrying finance borrowings liabilities liabilities Discount value 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m Due on demand or within one year 11 274 1,448 1,733 9 1,724 Due within one to two years 84 4 99 187 14 173 Due within two to five years 30 34 138 202 17 185 Due after more than five years 398 191 13 602 58 544 523 503 1,698 2,724 98 2,626 Discount 83 5 10 98 Carrying value 440 498 1,688 2,626 Total nonNon-recourse Other derivative project Other financial financial Carrying finance borrowings liabilities liabilities Discount value 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m Due on demand or within one year 57 56 1,639 1,752 10 1,742 Due within one to two years 10 299 93 402 14 388 Due within two to five years 34 37 134 205 15 190 Due after more than five years 188 209 20 417 36 381 289 601 1,886 2,776 75 2,701 Discount 49 12 14 75 Carrying value 240 589 1,872 2,701 Derivative financial liabilities gross maturity The following table details the Groups expected maturity for its derivative financial liabilities.
The table reects the undiscounted net cash inows outows on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis interest rate swaps and undiscounted gross inows outows for those derivatives that are settled on a gross basis foreign exchange contracts.
When the amount payable or receivable is not xed, theamount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates, using the yield curves at the reporting date.
Maturity prole of the Groups derivative financial liabilities at 31 December Net Net Payable Receivable payable Payable Receivable payable 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m Due on demand or within one year 21 18 3 77 71 6 Due within one to two years 7 3 4 10 6 4 Due within two to five years 10 10 14 3 11 Due after more than five years 24 24 27 27 Total 62 21 41 128 80 48 balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 158 Notes to the financial statements continued 38 Financial instruments continued Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk: credit risk: and liquidity risk.
The Groups financial risk management strategy seeks to minimise the potential adverse effect of these risks on the Groups financial performance.
Financial risk management is carried out centrally by Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board.
Group Treasury liaises with the Groups operating companies to identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks.
The Board provides written principles for overall financial risk management, as well as written policies covering specic areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits is monitored through the Groups internal audit and risk management procedures.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, forspeculative purposes.
a Market risk The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including: forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities transacted in a currency that is not thefunctional currency of the operating company interest rate swaps to mitigate the cash ow variability in non-recourse project finance loans arising from variable interest rates on borrowings.
There has been no material change to the Groups exposure to market risks and there has been no change in how the Group manages thoserisks since 2016. i Foreign currency risk management The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from exposure to various currencies, primarily to USdollars, euros and Hong Kong dollars.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future trading transactions, assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Group policy requires operating companies to manage their transactional foreign exchange risk against their functional currency.
Whenever acurrent or future foreign currency exposure is identied with sufficient reliability Group Treasury enters into forward contracts onbehalf of operating companies to cover 100% of foreign exchange risk above materiality levels determined by the Chief Financial officer.
Refer to page 157 for details of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the reporting date in respect of foreign currency transactional exposures.
As at 31 December 2017, the notional principal amounts of foreign exchange contracts in respect of foreign currency transactions where hedge accounting is not applied was 13m 2016: 70m receivable and 12m 2016: 71m payable with related cash ows expected to occur within one year 2016: two years.
The foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from fair valuing these unhedged foreign exchange contracts will affect the income statement throughout the same periods.
The Group has designated forward exchange contracts with a notional principal amount of 8m 2016: 10m receivable and 9m 2016: 11m payable as cash ow hedges against highly probable cash ows which are expected to occur in up to four 2016: five years.
Fair value gains on these contracts of 1m 2016: 2m have been taken to hedging reserves through other comprehensive income.
No significant amounts in relation to hedge ineffectiveness have been charged or credited to the Income Statement in relation to any foreign exchange cash ow hedges.
The Groups investments in foreign operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risks.
The Group does not enter into forward foreign exchange or other derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency denominated net assets.
In March 2013, the Group raised US$350m through a US private placement which has been designated as a net investment hedge against changes in the value of the Groups US net assets due to exchange movements.
The Group has reassessed this hedge and has concluded that the hedge continues to be effective.
Exchange movements in the year totalled 26m 2016: 49m.
A 5% increase decrease in the US dollar to sterling exchange rate would lead to a 12m decrease 2016: 14m 14m increase 2016: 15m in the carrying amount of the liability on the Groups balance sheet, with the movement recognised in other comprehensive income.
The hedging policy is reviewed periodically.
At the reporting date there had been no change to the hedging policies since 2016.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 159 38 Financial instruments continued ii Interest rate risk management Interest rate risk arises in the Groups non-recourse project companies which borrow funds at both oating and xed interest rates and hold available-for-sale financial assets.
Floating rate borrowings expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk.
The Groups policy to manage this risk is to swap oating rate interest to xed rate, using interest rate swap contracts.
In an interest rate swap, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between xed and oating rate interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
The net effect of a movement in interest rates on income would be immaterial.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by discounting the future cash ows using the yield curve at the reporting date.
During 2017 and 2016, the Groups non-recourse project subsidiaries borrowings at variable rates of interest were denominated in sterling and US dollars.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding subsidiaries interest rate swaps outstanding at 31 December 2017 totalled 113m 2016: 117m with maturities that match the maturity of the underlying borrowings ranging from one year to 22 years.
At 31 December 2017, the xed interest rates range from 3.5% to 5.1% 2016: 3.5% to 5.1% and the principal oating rates are LIBOR plus axed margin.
A 50 basis point increase decrease in the interest rate in which financial instruments are held would lead to a 6m increase 2016: 7m 8m decrease 2016: 9m in amounts taken directly to other comprehensive income by the Group in relation to the Groups exposure to interest rates on the available-for-sale PPP financial assets and cash ow hedges of its Infrastructure Investments subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk also arises on the Groups cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and other borrowings.
The majority of the debt of the Group is held at xed interest rates.
A 50 basis point increase decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which these financial instruments are held would lead to a 2.8m decrease 2016: nil 1.4m increase 2016: nil in the Groups net finance cost.
iii Price risk management The Groups principal price risk exposure arises in its Infrastructure Investments concessions.
At the commencement of the concession, an element of the unitary payment by the customer is indexed to offset the effect of ination on the concessions costs.
The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent that ination differs from the index used.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations, resulting in financial loss.
Credit risk arises from cash and deposits, derivative financial instruments and credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The Group has a policy of assessing the creditworthiness of potential customers before entering into transactions.
For cash and deposits and derivative financial instruments, the Group has a policy of only using counterparties that are independently rated with a minimum long-term credit rating of BBB.
At 31 December 2017, 1m 2016: 1m did not meet this criterion due to the operational and relationship difficulties in transferring certain balances, however no losses are anticipated from these counterparties.
The credit rating of a financial institution will determine the amount and duration for which funds may be deposited under individual risk limits set by the Board of Directors for the Group and subsidiary companies.
Management monitors the utilisation of these credit limits regularly.
For trade and other receivables, credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable using independent ratings where available or by assessment of the customers credit quality based on its financial position, past experience and other factors.
The Groups most significant customers are public or regulated industry entities which generally have high credit ratings or are of a high credit quality due to the nature of the customer.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of the above at the reporting date is the carrying value of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, net of any allowance for losses.
c Liquidity risk The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash balances and banking facilities, continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows and matching the maturity proles of financial assets and liabilities.
Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities are set out in Note 26.1.
The maturity prole of the Groups financial liabilities is set out on page 134. balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 160 Notes to the financial statements continued 38 Financial instruments continued Fair value estimation The Group holds certain financial instruments on the balance sheet at their fair values.
The following hierarchy classies each class ofnancial asset or liability in accordance with the valuation technique applied in determining its fair value.
There have been no transfers between these categories in the current or preceding year.
Level 1 The fair value is calculated based on quoted prices traded in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The Group  investments in mutual funds which are traded in active markets and valued at the closing market price atthe reporting date.
Level 2 The fair value is based on inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, eitherdirectly or indirectly.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash ows utilising yield curves at the reporting date and taking into account own credit risk.
Own credit risk for Infrastructure Investments swaps is not material and is calculated using the following credit valuation adjustment CVA calculation: loss given default multiplied by exposure multiplied by probability of default.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts.
Own credit risk for the other derivative liabilities is not material and is calculated by applying a relevant credit default swap CDS rate obtained from a third party.
Level 3 The fair value is based on unobservable inputs.
The fair value of the Groups PPP financial assets is determined in the construction phase by applying an attributable profit margin by reference to the construction margin on non-PPP projects reecting the construction risks retained by the construction contractor, and fair value of construction services performed.
In the operational phase it is determined by discounting the future cash ows allocated to the financial asset at a discount rate which is based on long-term gilt rates adjusted for the risk levels associated with the assets, with marketrelated movements in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and other movements recognised in the Income Statement.
Amounts originally recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the Income Statement upon disposal of the asset.
A change in the discount rate would have a significant effect on the value of the asset and a 50 basis point increase decrease, which represents managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in the risk-adjusted discount rate, would lead to a 7m decrease 2016: 7m 7m increase 2016: 7m in the fair value of the assets taken through equity.
Refer to Note 20 for a reconciliation of the movement from the opening balance to the closing balance.
2017 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial instruments at fair value m m m m m m m m Available-for-sale mutual fund financial assets 22 22 23 23 Financial assets foreign currency contracts 3 3 4 4 Available-for-sale PPP financial assets 163 163 163 163 Total assets measured at fair value 22 3 163 188 23 4 163 190 Financial liabilities foreign currency contracts 1 1 2 2 Financial liabilities infrastructure concessions interest rate swaps 34 34 37 37 Total liabilities measured at fair value 35 35 39 39 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 161 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates a Principal subsidiaries b Principal joint ventures and associates Country of Country of Ownership incorporation incorporation interest orregistration or registration % Construction and Support Services Construction and Support Services Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Gammon China Ltd Hong Kong 50.0 Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc US Infrastructure Investments Note 39 Balfour Beatty Construction, LP Canada Connect Plus M25 Ltd 20.0 Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc US Balfour Beatty Rail Inc US c Principal joint operations Infrastructure Investments Note 39 The Group carries out a number of its larger contracts in joint Balfour Beatty Communities LLC US arrangements with other contractors so as to share resources Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investments Ltd and risk.
The principal joint projects in progress during the year are shown below.
Balfour Beatty Investments Inc US Balfour Beatty Investments, LP Canada Crossrail 26.7 Balfour Beatty Communities, LP Canada M25 Maintenance 52.5 Other Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route 33.3 Balfour Beatty Holdings Inc.
US Area 10 ASC 70.0 Delphian Insurance Company Ltd Isle of Man Bergstrom CRC US 45.0 Regional Rail Partners North Metro US 50.0 Notes i Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose results did not, in the opinion of the Directors, materially affect the results or net assets of the Group are not shown.
ii Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the equity capital is owned and companies are registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are conducted inthe country of incorporation.
Indicates held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
Previously 40%, the Group disposed of a 20% interest in December 2017.
Following Carillion plcs compulsory liquidation on 15 January 2018, the Groups interest in this joint operation has increased to 50%, shared equally between the Group and Galliford Try plc.
A full list of the Groups related undertakings is included in Note 41. balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 162 Notes to the financial statements continued 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued d Balfour Beatty Investments UK Roads Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in 13 road and street lighting projects to construct new roads, to upgrade and maintain existing roads and to replace and maintain street lighting.
The principal contract is the project agreement with the governmental highway authority.
All assets transfer to the customer at the end of the concession.
Total debt and equity funding Financial Duration Construction Concession company i Project m Shareholding close years completion Connect M1-A1 Ltd 30km road 290 20% March 1996 30 1999 Connect A50 Ltd 57km road 42 25% May 1996 30 1998 Connect A30 A35 Ltd 102km road 127 20% July 1996 30 2000 Connect M77 GSO plc ii 25km road 167 85% May 2003 32 2005 Connect Roads Sunderland Ltd Streetlighting 27 20% August 2003 25 2008 Connect Roads South Tyneside Ltd Streetlighting 28 20% December 2005 25 2010 Connect Roads Derby Ltd Streetlighting 36 100% April 2007 25 2012 J16 J23, J27 J30 and Connect Plus M25 Ltd A1 M Hateld Tunnel 1,309 20% May 2009 30 2012 Carlisle Northern Connect CNDR Ltd Development Route 176 25% July 2009 30 2012 Connect Roads Coventry Ltd Streetlighting 56 20% August 2010 25 2015 Connect Roads Cambridgeshire Ltd Streetlighting 51 20% April 2011 25 2016 Connect Roads Northamptonshire Ltd Streetlighting 64 20% August 2011 25 2016 Aberdeen Western Aberdeen Roads Ltd Peripheral Route 665 33.3% December 2014 33 2018 Notes i Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Connect M77 GSO plc and Aberdeen Roads Ltd which are registered in and conduct their principal operations in Scotland.
ii Due to the shareholders agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control this company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Healthcare Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in four healthcare projects to build hospital accommodation and to provide certain non-medical facilities management services over the concession period.
The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession company and the NHS Trust and in the case of the Irish Primary Care Centres, the Irish Government.
Total debt and equity funding Financial Duration Construction Concession company i Project m Shareholding close years completion Teaching hospital and mental Consort Healthcare Birmingham Ltd health hospital 553 40% June 2006 40 2011 Consort Healthcare Fife Ltd General hospital 170 50% April 2009 30 2011 Woodland View Project Co Ltd Mental health hospital in Irvine 58 100% June 2014 27 2016 Healthcare Centres PPP Ltd Primary health care centres 158 40% May 2016 26 2018 Note i Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Consort Healthcare Fife Ltd and Woodland View Project Co Ltd which are registered in and conduct their principal operations in Scotland and Healthcare Centres PPP Ltd which is registered in and conducts its principal operations in Ireland.
Student accommodation Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in four student accommodation projects.
On Holyrood, Sussex and Aberystwyth, the principal agreement is between the concession company and the university and the assets transfer to the customer at the end of theconcession.
On Glasgow Residences the building is owned outright by Balfour Beatty and rooms will be let to individual students.
Total debt and equity funding Duration Construction Concession company i Project m Shareholding Financial close years completion Holyrood Student Accommodation SPV Ltd Edinburgh 82 100% July 2013 50 2016 Aberystwyth Student Accommodation Ltd Aberystwyth 51 100% July 2013 35 2015 Glasgow Residences Kennedy Street SPV Ltd Glasgow 40 100% April 2016 n a 2017 East Slope Residencies Student Accommodation LLP Sussex 218 80% March 2017 50 2020 Note i Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales except Holyrood Student Accommodation SPV Ltd and Glasgow Residences Kennedy Street SPV Ltd which are registered in and conduct their principal operations in Scotland.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 163 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued d Balfour Beatty Investments UK continued Other concessions Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd PCDL has a 25-year contract with the Environment Agency to maintain a shingle bank sea defence in East Sussex.
Gammon Capital West Pte Ltd has a contract with the Institute of Technical Education ITE College West of Singapore to design, build and finance the ITE and provide long-term facilities management services for the remainder of the 27-year project.
Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd is contracted by the local authority to design, construct, fund and provide facilities for 16 community restations in Merseyside, Cumbria and Lancashire.
UBB Waste Essex Ltd and UBB Waste Gloucestershire Ltd have contracts with the local authorities to design, build and operate new sustainable waste treatment facilities.
Thanet involves the operation of transmission assets for the 300MW offshore windfarm project located off the Kent coast.
Gwynt y Mr involves the operation of transmission assets for the 576MW offshore wind farm in the Irish sea.
Humber involves the operation of transmission assets for the 219MW offshore wind farm in the North sea.
Thanet, Gwynt y Mr and Humber operate and maintain the transmission assets under the terms of perpetual licences granted by Ofgem which contain the right to be paid a revenue stream over a 20-year period on an availability basis.
Birmingham Bio Power involves the design, construction, nancing, operation and maintenance of a 9.3MW waste wood gasier located at Tyseley Energy Park, Birmingham.
Welland Waste Bio Power involves the design, construction, nancing, operation and maintenance of a 10.4MW waste wood gasier located at Pebble Hall Farm, Thredingworth.
Total debt and equity funding Duration Construction Concession company i Project m Shareholding Financial close years completion Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd Sea defences 3 25% July 2000 25 n a Gammon Capital West Pte Ltd Technical education college 100 50% August 2008 27 2010 Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd Fire stations 55 100% February 2011 25 2013 UBB Waste Essex Ltd Waste processing plant 146 30% May 2012 28 2015 UBB Waste Gloucestershire Ltd Waste processing plant 223 49.5% January 2016 25 2019 Thanet OFTO Ltd Offshore transmission 197 20% December 2014 20 n a Gwynt y Mr OFTO plc ii Offshore transmission 256 60% February 2015 20 n a Birmingham Bio Power Ltd Waste wood gasier 53 37.5% December 2013 n a 2018 Welland Bio Power Ltd Waste wood gasier 17 25% March 2015 n a 2018 Humber Gateway OFTO Ltd Offshore transmission 187 20% September 2016 20 n a Notes i Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Gammon Capital West Pte Ltd which is registered in and conducts its principal operations in Singapore.
ii Due to the shareholders agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control this company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Due to delays in achieving planning, UBB Waste Gloucestershire Ltd reached a second financial close in January 2016. e Balfour Beatty Investments North America Military housing Summary Balfour Beatty through its subsidiary Balfour Beatty Communities LLC is a manager, developer, and investor in a number of US military privatisation projects associated with a total of 55 US government military bases which includes 55 military family housing communities and one unaccompanied personnel housing community that are expected to contain approximately 42,800 housing units once development, construction and renovation are complete.
The projects comprise 11 military family housing privatisation projects with the United States Department of the Army Army, seven projects with the United States Department of the Air Force Air Force and two projects with the United States Department of the Navy Navy.
In addition, there is one unaccompanied personnel housing UPH project with the Army at Fort Stewart.
Contractual arrangements The first phase of the project, known as the initial development period, covers the period of initial construction or renovation of military housing on a base, typically lasting three to eight years.
With respect to Army and Navy projects, the government becomes a member or partner of the project entity Project LLC : the Air Force is not a named partner or member in Balfour Beatty Communities Project LLCs, however it contributes a commitment to provide a government direct loan to the Project LLC and has similar rights to share in distributions and cash ows of the Project LLC.
On each project, the Project LLC enters into a ground lease with the government, which provides the Project LLC with a leasehold interest in the land and title to the improvements on the land for a period of 50years.
Each of these military housing privatisation projects includes agreements covering the management, renovation, and development of existing housing units, as well as the development, construction, renovation and management of new units during the term of the project, which, in the case of the Army, could potentially extend for up to an additional 25 years.
The 50-year duration of each project calls for continuous renovation, rehabilitation, demolition and reconstruction of housing units.
At the end of the ground lease term the ProjectLLCsleasehold interest terminates and all project improvements on the land generally transfer to the government.
Preferred returns The projects will typically receive, to the extent that adequate funds are available, an annual minimum preferred rate of return.
On most existing projects, this annual minimum preferred rate of return ranges from 9% to 12% of Balfour Beatty Communities initial equity contribution to the project.
During the initial development period, the project is precluded from distributing funds to pay the minimum preferred rate of return.
The unpaid amounts will generally accrue and accumulate, and can be used to fund renovation and construction costs, if necessary.
If the accumulated funds are not needed to fund renovation and construction costs, at the end of the initial development period they are distributed to pay accrued preferred returns to Balfour Beatty Communities and the government in accordance with the terms of the project agreements.
com AR2017 164 Notes to the financial statements continued 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued e Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued Military housing continued Allocation of remaining operating cash ows Subsequent to the initial development period, any operating cash ow remaining after the annual minimum preferred rate of return is paid is shared between Balfour Beatty Communities and the reinvestment account held by the project for the benefit of the government.
On most of the existing projects, the total amount that Balfour Beatty Communities is entitled to receive inclusive of the preferred return is generally capped at an annual modied rate of return, or cash-on-cash return, on its initial equity contribution to the project.
Historically, these caps have ranged between approximately 9% to 18% depending on the particular project and the type of return annual modied rates of return or cash-on-cash.
However, in some of the more recent projects, there are either no annual caps or lower projected annual rates of return.
The total capped return generally will include the annual minimum preferred return discussed above.
The reinvestment account is an account established for the benefit of the military, but funds may be withdrawn for construction, development and renovation costs during the remaining life of a privatisation project upon approval by the applicable military service.
Return of equity Generally, at the end of a project term, any monies remaining in the reinvestment account are distributed to Balfour Beatty Communities and the Army, Navy or Air Force, in a predetermined order of priority.
Typically these distributions will have the effect of providing the parties with sufficient funds to provide a minimum annual return over the life of the project and a complete return of the initial capital contribution.
After payment of the minimum annual return and the return of a partys initial contribution, all remaining funds willtypically be distributed to the applicable military service.
Total project funding Duration Construction Military concession company i ii Projects m Financial close years completion Military family housing Fort Carson Family Housing LLC Army base 130 November 2003 46 2004 Fort Carson expansion 96 November 2006 43 2010 Fort Carson GTA expansion 73 April 2010 39 2013 Fort Carson GTA II expansion 49 June 2015 34 2018 Stewart Hunter Housing LLC Two Army bases 277 November 2003 50 2012 Fort Hamilton Housing LLC Army base 45 June 2004 50 2009 Fort Detrick Walter Reed Army Medical Center Housing LLC Two Army bases 82 July 2004 50 2008 Northeast Housing LLC Seven Navy bases 367 November 2004 50 2010 Fort Eustis Fort Story Housing LLC Two Army bases 129 March 2005 50 2011 Fort Eustis expansion 6 July 2010 45 2011 Fort Eustis Marseilles Village 19 March 2013 42 2015 Fort Bliss White Sands Missile Range HousingLP Two Army bases 317 July 2005 50 2011 Fort Bliss expansion 34 December 2009 46 2011 Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase I 115 July 2011 44 2014 Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase II 108 November 2012 43 2016 Fort Gordon Housing LLC Army base 81 May 2006 50 2012 Carlisle Picatinny Family Housing LP Two Army bases 62 July 2006 50 2011 Carlisle Heritage Heights phase II 16 October 2012 44 2014 AETC Housing LP Four Air Force bases 265 February 2007 50 2012 Southeast Housing LLC 11 Navy bases 412 November 2007 50 2013 Vandenberg Housing LP Air Force base 115 November 2007 50 2012 Leonard Wood Family Communities LLC Army base 171 Acquired June 2008 47 2014 AMC West Housing LP Three Air Force bases 317 July 2008 50 2015 West Point Housing LLC Army base 163 August 2008 50 2016 Fort Jackson Housing LLC Army base 134 October 2008 50 2013 Lackland Family Housing LLC Air Force base 78 Acquired December 2008 50 2013 Western Group Housing LP Four Air Force bases 243 March 2012 50 2017 Northern Group Housing LLC Six Air Force bases 324 August 2013 50 2019 ACC Group Housing LLC Two Air Force bases 43 June 2014 50 2018 Military unaccompanied personnel housing Stewart Hunter Housing LLC 26 January 2008 50 2010 Notes i Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
ii The share of results of the military housing joint ventures of Balfour Beatty Communities is limited to a pre-agreed preferred return on funds invested.
The Group evaluated each of its interests in the military housing projects to determine if the entities should be consolidated.
This analysis included, but was not limited to, identifying the activities that most signicantly impact an entitys economic performance, which party or parties control those activities and the risks associated with these entities.
Decision-making power over key facets of the contracts was evaluated when determining which party or parties had control over the activities that most signicantly impacted a projects economics.
Based on this review, the Directors consider that the Group does not have the power to direct these activities and does not have control andtherefore the Group does not consolidate the military housing projects.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 165 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued e Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued Hospitals Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in two hospital projects in Canada.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession companies and the authorities.
An ination-indexed payment is primarily based upon availability of the hospital subject to any performance related deductions.
The construction services for the BC Childrens and BC Womens Hospitals project were subcontracted to a joint venture in which the Group has a 50% participation and the facilities maintenance services were subcontracted to a joint venture in which the Group also has a 50% participation.
The soft facilities management services at North Island Hospital were subcontracted to a Group company and the hard facilities management services were subcontracted to a third party.
The payments for the soft facilities management services, at both projects, are initially market adjusted after the third year of operations and then every six years thereafter.
All assets transfer to the authorities at the end of the concession.
Total project funding Duration Construction Hospitals i Project m Shareholding Financial close years completion Afnity Partnerships ii BC Childrens and BC Womens Hospitals 270 70% April 2014 33 2017 THP Partnerships North Island Hospital 300 50% June 2014 32 2017 Notes i Registered in the province of Manitoba in Canada and the principal operations of each project are conducted in British Columbia, Canada.
ii Balfour Beatty has joint control over the project through unanimous consent over all significant operating and nancing decisions, and therefore does not consolidate the project.
Other concessions Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in a data centre located at the Canadian Forces base in Borden, Ontario.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession partnership and the authorities.
An ination-indexed payment is primarily based upon availability of the date centre subject to any performance related deductions or security related deductions.
Total debt and equity funding Duration Construction Concession partnership i Project m Shareholding Financial close years completion UIP GP Borden Data Centre 91 50% May 2016 25 2018 Note i Registered in the province of Ontario in Canada and the principal operations of the project are conducted in Ontario, Canada.
Residential investments Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in seven multifamily residential projects.
Contractual arrangements Balfour Beatty formed joint ventures to acquire residential apartment buildings for seven multifamily residential projects.
For Townlake of Coppell, The Dallas 5 Portfolio, Mobile Alabama portfolio, Nesbit Palisades, Carolina Cove and Evergreen projects, the joint ventures entered into agreements with Balfour Beatty Communities LLC to perform the operations and renovation work.
For The Ranch at Pinnacle Point, the joint venture entered into an agreement with Balfour Beatty Communities LLC to perform the asset management services and renovation work.
Total project funding Renovation Residential investments i m Shareholding Financial close completion RAPP BBC Associates, LLC Pinnacle Point, Arkansas 32 50% February 2015 2018 DFW 5 Holdings, LLC Dallas 5 Portfolio, Texas 128 10% May 2015 2018 Coppell Properties, LLC Texas 37 10% May 2015 2018 BBC Apexone Mobile Eastern, LLC Alabama 19 50% January 2016 2018 Nesbit Palisades, LLC Georgia 38 15% July 2016 2019 TBB Evergreen Holdings, LLC Atlanta, Georgia 60 15% June 2017 2019 Carolina Cove Wilmington Owner LLC North Carolina 34 50% December 2017 2018 Note i Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
com AR2017 166 Notes to the financial statements continued 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued e Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued Student accommodation Summary Through its subsidiary, Balfour Beatty Campus Solutions LLC, Balfour Beatty is a manager on one student accommodation project, where it also acted as a developer.
Balfour Beatty is also a developer and owner of three additional student accommodation projects, and is a joint venture partner to develop one other student accommodation project.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract in the Florida Atlantic University project is the property management agreement with the state university setting out the obligations for the operation and maintenance of the student accommodation.
The principal contracts in the other student accommodation projects where Balfour Beatty is an owner are the ground leases, development leases and operating agreements with the state universities setting out the obligations for the construction, operation and maintenance of the student accommodation including lifecycle replacement during the concession period.
Total project funding Duration Construction Concession company i m Shareholding Financial close years completion C-BB Management LLC C-BBC Development LLC Florida 74 ii March 2010 30 2011 BBCS-Hawkeye Housing LLC Iowa Phase 1 23 100% June 2013 41 2014 BBCS-Hawkeye Housing LLC Iowa Phase 2 26 100% May 2015 39 2016 BBCS-UN Reno Housing LLC Reno 16 100% August 2013 43 2014 Northside Campus Partners LP Texas Dallas 40 50% March 2015 61 2016 Northside Campus Partners 2, LP Texas Dallas 50 10% February 2017 61 2018 Notes i Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
ii 50% holding in the management company.
f Balfour Beatty Investments UK and North America Total future committed equity and debt funding for Infrastructure Investments project companies 2021 2018 2019 2020 onwards Total Concessions m m m m m UK Roads 20 20 Healthcare 5 5 Student accommodation 6 17 23 Waste and biomass 2 25 27 Other UK 710 2 4 23 34 41 19 4 98 North America Social infrastructure 3 3 3 3 37 41 19 4 101 Projects at financial close 30 31 17 78 Projects at preferred bidder stage 7 10 2 4 23 Total 37 41 19 4 101 Note These categories have been presented within Other concessions in Note 39 d. 40 Audit exemptions taken for subsidiaries The following subsidiaries are exempt from the requirements under the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual financial statements by virtue of Section 479A of the Act.
Company registration number Education Investments Holdings Ltd 6863458 Consort Healthcare Infrastructure Investments Ltd 6859623 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 167 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2017 In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates and joint ventures, including the principal activity, the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned as at 31 December 2017 is disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, all interests are in the ordinary share capital or shares of common stock in the entity and are held indirectly by the Company, and all entities operate principally in their country of incorporation.
All subsidiaries had a reporting period ended 31 December 2017 and are wholly owned, except where indicated.
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the United Kingdom Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Balfour Beatty Civil Agent of Balfour Birse Group Ltd Investment holding 350 Euston Road, Regents Place, Engineering SW Ltd Beatty Group Ltd company London NW1 3AX Balfour Beatty Civil Agent of Balfour Birse Metro Ltd Construction and Aberystwyth Student Infrastructure Engineering Ltd Beatty Group Ltd support services Accommodation Ltd concession Balfour Beatty Civils Ltd Agent of Balfour Birse Rail Ltd Construction and Balfour Beatty Fire and Investment holding Beatty Group Ltd support services Rescue NW Holdings Ltd company Balfour Beatty Const Ltd Agent of Balfour Bnoms Ltd i Nominee company Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue Infrastructure Beatty Group Ltd NW Intermediate Ltd concession BPH Equipment Ltd Hire of plant and Balfour Beatty Construction Agent of Balfour transport Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue Infrastructure SW Ltd Beatty Group Ltd NW Ltd concession Burnbank House Ltd ii Property investment Balfour Beatty Construction Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investment holding Cowlin Group Ltd Investment holding International Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Investments Ltd i company company Balfour Beatty Construction Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investment holding Dean & Dyball Dormant Northern Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Partners Member Ltd company Developments Ltd Balfour Beatty Engineering Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investment holding Dean & Dyball Rail Ltd Dormant Services HY Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Projects Investments Ltd company Eastern Infrastructure Dormant Balfour Beatty Group Employer for UK Balfour Beatty Investments Ltd Agent of Balfour Maintenance Employment Ltd workforce Beatty Group Ltd Company Ltd Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Construction and Balfour Beatty OFTO Investment holding Footprint Furniture Ltd Construction support services Holdings Ltd company services Balfour Beatty Homes South Dormant BBI Holdings Australia Ltd Investment holding Guinea Investments Ltd Investment holding Western Ltd company company Balfour Beatty Homes Ltd Agent of Manring BBPF LLP v Investment Haden Building Services Ltd Investment holding Homes Ltd partnership company Balfour Beatty International Ltd Agent of Balfour Connect Roads Derby Investment holding Haden Young Ltd i Dormant Beatty Group Ltd Holdings Ltd company Hall & Tawse Western Ltd Dormant Balfour Beatty Investment Investment holding Connect Roads Derby Ltd Infrastructure Heery International Ltd Agent of Balfour Holdings Ltd i company concession Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty Agent of Balfour Connect Roads Infrastructure Investment holding Laser Rail Ltd Agent of Balfour Management Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Investments Ltd company Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty Nominees Ltd Nominee company Consort Healthcare Investment holding Lounsdale Electric Ltd Dormant Infrastructure company Balfour Beatty Overseas Investment holding Manring Homes Ltd Property investment Investments Ltd Investments Ltd company Multibuild Construction Agent of Balfour East Slope Residencies Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Overseas Ltd Investment holding & Interiors Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Facilities Management Ltd concession company Multibuild Hotels and Construction East Slope Residencies Investment holding Balfour Beatty Property Ltd i Agent of Balfour Leisure Ltd services Holdings Ltd company Beatty plc Multibuild Interiors Ltd Construction East Slope Residencies Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Rail Agent of Balfour services Partner Ltd concession Infrastructure Services Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Ofce Projects Interiors Ltd Agent of Balfour East Slope Residencies PLC iii Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Rail Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd concession Beatty Group Ltd Ofce Projects Group Ltd Investment holding East Slope Residencies Student Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Rail Projects Ltd Agent of Balfour company Accommodation LLP iii v concession Beatty Group Ltd Ofce Projects Ltd Construction Education Investments Investment holding Balfour Beatty Rail Agent of Balfour services Holdings Ltd company Technologies Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Omnicom Engineering Ltd Construction Initial GP1 Ltd Investment holding Balfour Beatty Rail Track Agent of Balfour services company Systems Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Raynesway Construction Ltd Agent of Balfour West Stratford Investment holding Balfour Beatty Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Developments Ltd company Refurbishment Ltd Beatty Group Ltd South East Infrastructure Dormant 5 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, Balfour Beatty Regional Agent of Balfour Maintenance Company Ltd London E14 5HU Construction Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Southern Track Renewals Dormant Avatar Ltd Dormant Balfour Kilpatrick Ltd Dormant Company Ltd Balfour Beatty Build Ltd Agent of Balfour Balvac Ltd Agent of Balfour Strata Construction Ltd Dormant Beatty Group Ltd Beatty Group Ltd W. T. Glover & Company Ltd i Dormant Balfour Beatty Building Ltd Agent of Balfour Bical Construction Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty CE Ltd Agent of Balfour Bignell & Associates Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Beatty Group Ltd balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 168 Notes to the financial statements continued 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2017 continued Subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the United Kingdom continued Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Hereford Steel Works, Holmer Road, Pavilion B, Ashwood Park, Ashwood Way, Edgar Allen Engineering Ltd Dormant in Hereford HR4 9SW Basingstoke, Hampshire RG23 8BG liquidation Painter Brothers Ltd Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Ground Agent of Balfour EIMCO Ltd Investment holding Beatty Group Ltd Engineering Ltd Beatty Group Ltd company in liquidation Kings Business Park, Kings Drive, Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Agent of Balfour Prescot, Merseyside L34 1PJ Services Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Heery Holdings Ltd i Dormant in liquidation Balfour Beatty Pension Pension fund trustee Balfour Beatty Living Places Ltd Agent of Balfour Trust Ltd i Beatty Group Ltd John Kennedy Civil Dormant in Engineering Ltd iv liquidation C O Mc Griggors LLP, Arnott House, 12-16 Bridge Sunderland Streetlighting Ltd Agent of Balfour Street, Belfast, BT1 1LS Northern Ireland John Kennedy Holdings Ltd Investment holding Beatty Group Ltd company Balfour Kilpatrick Northern Dormant Testing and Analysis Ltd Agent of Balfour in liquidation Ireland Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Kenton Utility Service Dormant in Maxim 7, Maxim Ofce Park, Parklands Avenue, Q14, Quorum Business Park, Benton Lane, Management Ltd liquidation Eurocentral, Holytown ML1 4WQ Newcastle upon Tyne NE12 8B Kirby Maclean Ltd Dormant in Aberdeen Construction Dormant Balfour Beatty Rail Corporate Agent of Balfour liquidation Group Ltd Services Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Mansell North East Ltd Dormant in Balfour Beatty Construction Ltd Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty WorkSmart Ltd Agent of Balfour liquidation Beatty Group Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Mansell plc Investment holding Balfour Beatty Construction Agent of Balfour C O Mazars, 90 St Vincent Street, company Scottish & Southern Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Glasgow G2 5UB in liquidation Balfour Beatty Kilpatrick Limited Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Engineering Dormant in Network Plant Ltd Dormant in Beatty Group Ltd Services LEL Ltd liquidation liquidation Balfour Beatty Rail Agent of Balfour C O Mazars, Tower Bridge House, SEIMCO Ltd Investment holding Residuary Ltd Beatty Group Ltd St Katharines Way, London E1W 1DD company Balfour Beatty Regional Civil Agent of Balfour Armpledge Ltd Investment holding in liquidation Engineering Ltd Beatty Group Ltd company STAT 123 Ltd Dormant in in liquidation BBPFS LP v Investment liquidation partnership Balfour Beatty Engineering Dormant in The Telegraph Construction and Dormant in Solutions Ltd liquidation Glasgow Residences Kennedy Investment holding Maintenance Company Ltd liquidation Street Holdings Ltd company Balfour Beatty Power Networks Dormant in Trafc Flow Ltd Dormant in Distribution Services Ltd liquidation Glasgow Residences Kennedy Infrastructure liquidation Street LLP v concession Balfour Beatty Property Investment holding William Cowlin Holdings Ltd Dormant in Investments Ltd i company Glasgow Residences Kennedy Infrastructure liquidation in liquidation Street SPV Ltd concession West Service Road, Raynesway, Balfour Beatty Rail Investment holding Hall & Tawse Ltd Dormant Derby DE21 7BG Investments Ltd company Holyrood Student Investment holding in liquidation Balfour Beatty Plant & Fleet Hire of plant and Accommodation Holdings Ltd company Services Ltd transport Birse Construction Ltd Investment holding Holyrood Student Infrastructure company Notes: Accommodation concession in liquidation i Held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
Birse Group Services Ltd Dormant in Holyrood Student Infrastructure iii 80% owned.
liquidation Accommodation plc concession iv Preference shares and or deferred Birse Integrated Solutions Ltd Dormant in sharesalso held.
Holyrood Student Infrastructure liquidation v Partnership interests held.
Accommodation SPV Ltd concession Birse Properties Ltd Dormant in Initial Founder Partner GP1 Ltd Investment holding liquidation company Branlow Ltd Dormant in Woodland View Investment holding liquidation Holdings Co Ltd company Chris Britton Consultancy Ltd Dormant in Woodland View Infrastructure liquidation IntermediateCo Ltd concession Clarke Securities Ltd i Investment holding Woodland View Project Co Ltd Infrastructure company concession in liquidation Midmill Business Park, Tumulus Way, Kintore, Cowlin Management Ltd Investment holding Aberdeenshire AB51 0TG company in liquidation Balfour Beatty Engineering Agent of Balfour Services CL Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Dean & Dyball Investments Ltd Investment holding company Park Square, Newton Chambers Road, Thorncliffe Park, Chapeltown, Shefeld S35 2PH in liquidation Dean & Dyball Ltd Investment holding Balfour Beatty Utility Agent of Balfour SolutionsLtd iv Beatty Group Ltd company in liquidation BB Indonesia Ltd Support services Dean & Dyball Workforce Ltd Dormant in liquidation Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 169 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2017 continued Subsidiary undertakings incorporated outside the United Kingdom Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Australia China New Zealand Allens Corporate Services Pty Ltd, Level 4 Beijing Landmark Towers Building 2, C O Price Waterhouse Coopers, Level 8, Deutsche Bank Place, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney Room 511-514, No 8 Dongsanhuan North Road, Price Waterhouse Coopers Tower, NSW 2000 Chaoyang District, Beijing 188 Quay Street Private Bag 92162, Auckland Balfour Beatty Australia Pty Ltd Construction and Balfour Beatty Rail Construction support services Electrication Equipment services Balfour Beatty New Zealand Ltd Construction and Trading Beijing Ltd support services Balfour Beatty Holdings Investment holding Australia Pty Ltd company Germany Romania Allens Corporate Services Pty Ltd, Level 33, 23 G-Ral Ernest Brosteanu Street, Corp B Garmischer Strasse 35, 81373 Munich 101 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000 Birouri Parter, Sector 1, Bucharest 010527 Balfour Beatty Capital GmbH Dormant Balfour Beatty Australian LP iii Investment holding SC Balfour Beatty Rail SRL Construction Balfour Beatty Offshore Dormant partnership services Transmission Germany GmbH Bahamas Sri Lanka Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH Construction One Millars Court, PO Box N-7117, Nassau No.
216 fide Saram Place, Colombo 10 services Balfour Beatty Bahamas Ltd Dormant BICC Holdings GmbH Investment holding Balfour Beatty Ceylon Construction Private Ltd services company Brazil Schreck-Mieves GmbH Construction Switzerland Avenida Brigadeiro Faria Lima, No.
1478, services Suites 109-110, 1st Floor, JardimPaulistano, Hansmatt 32, 6370 Stans So Paulo, 01.451001 Hong Kong Balfour Beatty Rail Schweiz Construction RHA do Brasil Servios fide Construction GmbH services Level 54, Hopewell Centre, Infraestrutura Ltda services 183 Queens Road East in liquidation Canada Thailand Balfour Beatty Hong Kong Ltd Construction and support services Borden Ladner Gervais LLP, Scotia Plaza, 9 Soi Santisuk, Sithisarn Road, 40 King Street West, 44th Floor, Huay Kwang, Bangkok India Toronto ON M5H 3Y4 3rd Floor, Municipal No.
1, Service Road, Asia Trade Development Co Ltd Construction BB Group Canada Inc Investment holding 11 VB Colony, Outer Ring Road, Ward No.
88, services company Bansawadi, Banglore, Karnataka-KA Balfour Beatty Construction Construction 720 King Street West, Toronto ON M5V 2T3 Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Construction and Thailand Co Ltd services India Pvt.
Ltd support services BB UIP Inc Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Holdings Investment holding concession Ireland Thailand Co Ltd company Taylor McCaffrey LLP, 900-400 St. Mary Avenue, Balfour Beatty Thai Ltd Construction City Junction Business Park, Northern Cross, Winnipeg MB R3C 4K5 Malahide Road, Dublin 17 services Balfour Beatty Communities Infrastructure Linwood Co Ltd Investment holding Balfour Beatty Ireland Ltd ii Support services GP, Inc investment company Kenton Utilities & Dormant Balfour Beatty Communities, Infrastructure United States Developments Ireland Ltd LP iii investment Isle of Man 1011 Centre Road, Suite 310, Balfour Beatty Construction Infrastructure Wilmington fide 19805 Tower House, Loch Promenade, GP, Inc investment Douglas, IM1 2LZ, Isle of Man Balfour Beatty Holdings Inc Investment holding Balfour Beatty Construction, Infrastructure company Delphian Insurance Insurance company LP iii investment CompanyLtd i Balfour Beatty LLC Investment holding Balfour Beatty CWH Infrastructure company Jersey Holdings Inc investment 50 Public Square, Suite 2175, Cleveland OH 44113 12 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RT Balfour Beatty Investments Infrastructure National Engineering & Construction Balfour Beatty Employees Employee trust GP, Inc investment Contracting Company services Trustees Ltd i Balfour Beatty Investments, Infrastructure 999 Peachtree Street NE, Atlanta, 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 0BD LP iii investment Georgia 30309-39764 Balfour Beatty Finance Finance company Balfour Beatty THP Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Construction No.
2 Ltd i Holdings, Inc. investment Infrastructure, Inc services Malaysia BB CWH, LP iii Infrastructure Corporation Service Company, 505 5th Avenue investment Level 8, Symphony House, Block D13, Suite 729, DesMoines, IA50309 Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A 46, BB CWH GP, Inc Infrastructure BBCS Condominium Infrastructure 47301 Petaling Jaya investment Association, Inc. concession Balfour Beatty Projects Sdn Bhd Construction BB NIH, LP iii Infrastructure services investment Corporation Service Company, 1127 Broadway Balfour Beatty Rail Design Construction BB NIH GP, Inc Infrastructure Street NE, Suite310, SalemOR 97301 International Sdn Bhd services investment Columbia Plaza Construction Netherlands Chile Investments, LLC services Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 JB, Amsterdam Vicuna MacKenna Poniente 6843, Ocina 209, HSW Rock Springs, LLC Construction La Florida, Santiago BICC Finance BV Dormant services in liquidation Balfour Beatty Chile SA Construction services Rapenburgerstraat 177 B, 1011 VM, Amsterdam Balfour Beatty Netherlands BV Investment holding company balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 170 Notes to the financial statements continued 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2017 continued Subsidiary undertakings incorporated outside the United Kingdom continued Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity United States continued BBC Military Housing FDWR Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Construction Construction LLC concession Company, Inc services Corporation Service Company, 1703 Laurel Street, Columbia SC 29201 BBC Military Housing Fort Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Construction Construction Carson LLC concession Group, Inc services National Casualty and Insurance company Assurance, Inc BBC Military Housing Fort Infrastructure Notes: Gordon LLC concession Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls i Held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
Drive, Wilmington fide 19808 BBC Military Housing Fort Infrastructure ii In accordance with the provisions of Section 357 of the Irish Companies Act 2014, the Company, Hamilton LLC concession Balfour Beatty Campus Infrastructure as the ultimate parent of Balfour Beatty Ireland Solutions, LLC investment BBC Military Housing Fort Infrastructure Ltd BBIL having its registered ofce at City Jackson LLC concession Junction Business Park, Northern Cross, Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Malahide Road, Dublin 17, Ireland, irrevocably Communities, LLC investment BBC Military Housing Infrastructure guarantees in respect of the whole of the financial Hampton Roads LLC concession year of BBIL ended 31 December 2017, all the Balfour Beatty Construction Construction liabilities of BBIL provided that this guarantee D. C. LLC services BBC Military Housing Infrastructure shall not extend to any liability or commitment of Lackland LLC concession Balfour Beatty Construction BBIL which shall not have arisen otherwise than in respect of the financial year Construction, LLC services BBC Military Housing Leonard Infrastructure or which shall not constitute a liability or loss.
Wood LLC concession Balfour Beatty Equipment, LLC Construction iii Partnership interests held.
services BBC Military Housing Navy Infrastructure iv 65% interest held.
Northeast LLC concession Balfour Beatty Investments, Inc Investment holding company BBC Military Housing Navy Infrastructure Southeast LLC concession Balfour Beatty Management Inc Business services BBC Military Housing Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Military Housing Infrastructure Northern Group, LLC concession Development LLC investment BBC Military Housing Stewart Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Military Housing Investment holding Hunter LLC concession Investments LLC company BBC Military Housing Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Military Housing Infrastructure Vandenberg General Partner concession Management LLC investment LLC Balfour Beatty Worthgroup, Construction BBC Military Housing Infrastructure LLC services Vandenberg Limited Partner concession BBC D5 Investors, LLC iv Infrastructure LLC investment BBC Military Housing West Infrastructure BBC AF Housing Infrastructure Point LLC concession ConstructionLLC investment BBC Military Housing Infrastructure BBC AF Management Infrastructure Western General Partner, LLC concession Development LLC investment BBC Military Housing Infrastructure BBC Evergreen, LLC Investment holding Western Limited Partner, LLC concession company BBC Multifamily Holdings, LLC Infrastructure BBC Independent Infrastructure investment MemberI, Inc investment BBCS Hawkeye Housing, LLC Infrastructure BBC Independent Infrastructure concession MemberII, Inc investment BBCS Northside Infrastructure BBC Military Housing ACC Infrastructure Campus, LLC concession Group, LLC concession BBCS UN Reno Housing, LLC Infrastructure BBC Military Housing AETC Infrastructure concession General PartnerLLC concession BBCS Development, LLC Infrastructure BBC Military Housing AETC Infrastructure investment Limited Partner LLC concession BICC Cables Corporation Business services BBC Military Housing AMC Infrastructure Corporation Service Company, 300 Deschutes General Partner LLC concession Way SW, Suite 304, Tumwater WA 98501 BBC Military Housing AMC Infrastructure Howard S Wright Construction Construction Limited Partner LLC concession Co services BBC Military Housing Bliss Infrastructure HSW, Inc Construction WSMR General Partner LLC concession services BBC Military Housing Bliss Infrastructure CSC Nevada, C O CSC Services of Nevada, WSMR Limited Partner LLC concession Inc. 502 East John Street, Carson City, Nevada, BBC Military Housing Carlisle Infrastructure 89706 Picatinny General Partner LLC concession Balfour Beatty Golden Construction BBC Military Housing Carlisle Infrastructure Construction Company services Picatinny Limited Partner LLC concession Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 171 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2017 continued Joint ventures incorporated in the United Kingdom % held % held % held by the Principal by the Principal by the Principal Name of undertaking Group activity Name of undertaking Group activity Name of undertaking Group activity 350 Euston Road, Regents Place, Consort Healthcare 40 Investment Connect Plus House St Albans Road, London NW1 3AX Birmingham holding company South Mimms, Hertfordshire EN6 3NP Holdings Ltd BBDE Orbital Holdings, Investment Connect Plus M25 20 Investment LLP iii holding company Consort Healthcare 40 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd iii holding company Birmingham concession Connect A30 A35 20 Investment Connect Plus M25 20 Infrastructure Intermediate Ltd Holdings Ltd holding company Intermediate Ltd iii concession Consort Healthcare 40 Infrastructure Connect A30 A35 Ltd 20 Infrastructure Connect Plus M25 20 Infrastructure Birmingham Ltd concession concession Ltd iii concession East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Connect A50 Ltd 25 Infrastructure Maxim 7, Maxim Ofce Park, Parklands Avenue, Sweetwater Projects concession concession Eurocentral, Holytown ML1 4WQ Holdings Ltd Connect CNDR 25 Investment Aberdeen Roads 33.3 Infrastructure East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd holding company Finance plc concession Sweetwater Projects concession Connect CNDR 25 Infrastructure Aberdeen Roads 33.3 Investment Phase 1 Ltd Intermediate Ltd concession Holdings Ltd holding company East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Connect CNDR Ltd 25 Infrastructure Aberdeen Roads Ltd 33.3 Infrastructure Sweetwater Projects concession concession concession Phase 2 Ltd Connect M1-A1 20 Investment Consort Healthcare Fife 50 Investment East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd i holding company Holdings Ltd holding company Sweetwater Projects concession Connect M1-A1 Ltd 20 Infrastructure Phase 3 Ltd Consort Healthcare Fife 50 Infrastructure concession IntermediateLtd concession East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Connect M77 GSO 85 Investment Sweetwater Projects concession Consort Healthcare 50 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd ii holding company Phase 4 Ltd Fife Ltd concession Connect M77 GSO plc ii 85 Infrastructure East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Westminster House, Crompton Way, concession Sweetwater Projects concession Segensworth West, Fareham, Phase 5 Ltd Hampshire PO15 5SS Connect Roads 20 Investment East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Cambridgeshire holding company Pevensey Coastal 25 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd Sweetwater Projects concession Defence Ltd concession Phase 6 Ltd Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure Notes: Cambridgeshire concession East Wick and 50 Infrastructure i Held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
Intermediate Ltd Sweetwater Projects concession ii Due to the shareholders agreement between Phase 7 Ltd Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of Cambridgeshire Ltd concession Gwynt y Mor OFTO 60 Investment significant matters related to the financial and Holdings Ltd ii holding company Connect Roads Coventry 20 Investment operating policies of the company, the Directors Holdings Ltd holding company Gwynt y Mor OFTO 60 Infrastructure consider that the Group does not control the company and it has been accounted for as a IntermediateLtd ii concession Connect Roads Coventry 20 Infrastructure joint venture.
IntermediateLtd concession Gwynt y Mor OFTO 60 Infrastructure iii The Group owned 68.75% of BBDE Orbital plc ii concession Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure Holdings LLP at 31 December 2017 but had an Coventry Ltd concession Humber Gateway OFTO 20 Investment unconditional right to sell an 18.75% interest, thereby reducing its effective interest to 50%.
HoldingsLtd holding company Connect Roads Ltd 25 Investment Connect Plus M25 Holdings Ltd and its holding company Humber Gateway OFTO 20 Infrastructure subsidiaries are 40% owned by BBDE Orbital Holdings LLP.
IntermediateLtd concession Connect Roads 20 Investment Northamptonshire holding company Humber Gateway 20 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd OFTO Ltd concession Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure Thanet OFTO Holdco Ltd 20 Investment holding company Northamptonshire concession Intermediate Ltd Thanet OFTO 20 Infrastructure Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure Intermediate Ltd concession Northamptonshire Ltd concession Thanet OFTO Ltd 20 Infrastructure Connect Roads South 20 Investment concession Tyneside Holdings Ltd holding company Blythe House, Blythe Park, Cresswell, Connect Roads South 20 Infrastructure Stoke on Trent, Staffordshire ST11 9RD Tyneside Ltd concession Birmingham Bio 37.5 Infrastructure Connect Roads 20 Investment Power Ltd concession Sunderland HoldingsLtd holding company Pebblehall Bio Power Ltd 25 Investment Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure holding company Sunderland Ltd concession Tyseley Bio Power Ltd 37.5 Investment Consort Healthcare 40 Infrastructure holding company Birmingham Funding plc concession Welland Bio Power Ltd 25 Infrastructure concession balfourbeatty.
com AR2017 172 Notes to the financial statements continued 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2017 continued Joint ventures incorporated outside the United Kingdom % held % held % held by the Principal by the Principal by the Principal Name of undertaking Group activity Name of undertaking Group activity Name of undertaking Group activity Bermuda Ireland United States continued Conyers Dill & Pearman Limited, 2 Clarendon Dunmoy House, St Margarets Road, Northside Campus 50 Infrastructure House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM 11 Finglas, Dublin 11 General PartnerLLC concession CP Bay Carry A LP 20 Infrastructure Balfour Beatty CLG Ltd 50 Support services Northside Campus 90 Infrastructure concession Limited Partner, LLC i concession C O Sweett Group, 2nd Floor, Cathedral Court, CP Bay Carry B LP 20 Infrastructure New Street South, Dublin 8 Corporation Service Company, concession 2908 Poston Avenue, Nashville TN 37203 Healthcare Centres PPP 40 Investment British Virgin Islands Holdings Ltd holding company Balfour Concord GP iv 50 Construction services P. O.
Box 957, Offshore Incorporations Centre, Healthcare Centres 40 Infrastructure Road Town, Tortola PPPLtd concession Balfour Concord Property 50 Construction Management, LLC services Gammon Asia Ltd 50 Investment Malaysia holding company 430 Eastwood Road, Wilmington, NC 28403 Level 8, Symphony House, Block D13, Gammon Construction 50 Investment Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A 46, New Energy Alliance LLC 50 Construction and Holdings Ltd holding company 47301 Petaling Jaya supportservices Canada Balfour Beatty Ansaldo 60 Construction Notes: Systems JV Sdn Bhd ii services Taylor McCaffrey LLP, 900-400 St. Mary Avenue, i Due to the shareholders agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders Winnipeg MB R3C 4K5 Balfour Beatty Rail Sdn 70 Construction requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of Bhd ii services Afnity BBL Inc. 50 Infrastructure significant matters related to the financial and investment Singapore operating policies of the company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control the Afnity General 50 Infrastructure 239 Alexandra Road, 159930 company and it has been accounted for as a Partner Inc. investment joint venture.
Gammon Capital West 50 Infrastructure ii The Group holds a 70% interest in Balfour Beatty Afnity LP i iv 70 Infrastructure Holdings Pte.
Ltd concession Rail Sdn Bhd, which holds a 60% interest in investment Gammon Capital West 50 Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Ansaldo Systems JV Sdn Bhd.
Ltd concession Due to the shareholders agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders investment Gammon Investments 50 Investment requiring unanimity of agreement in respect CWH Facilities 50 Infrastructure Pte.
Ltd holding company of significant matters related to the financial Management, LP iv investment and operating policies of these companies, United States the Directors consider that the Group does not CWH FM GP Inc 50 Infrastructure control these companies and they have been Corporation Service Company, 1201 Hays Street, investment accounted for as joint ventures.
Tallahassee FL 32301 iii Preference shares and or deferred shares CWH Design Build 50 Construction C-BB Management, LLC 50 Infrastructure also held.
GP iv services investment iv Partnership interests held.
Gracorp Balfour Beatty 50 Investment C-BBC Development, LLC 50 Infrastructure THP HoldingsInc.
holding company investment Ledcor Balfour Beatty 50 Investment Corporation Service Company d b a CSCAfnity HoldingsInc.
holding company Lawyers, Incorporating Service Company, 211 E. THP GBB Inc. 50 Infrastructure 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin TX 78701-3218 investment Northside Campus 50 Infrastructure THP GP Inc. 50 Infrastructure Partners, LP iv concession investment Northside Campus 50 Infrastructure THP LP iv 50 Infrastructure Partners 2, LP iv concession investment Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange St, THP Partnership 50 Infrastructure Wilmington, Delaware19801 investment RAPP-BBC Associates, 10 Infrastructure Forum House at Brookeld Place, Scotia Plaza, LLC investment 181 Bay Street, EP210, Toronto, ON M5J 2T3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls UIP GP 50 Infrastructure Drive, Wilmington fide 19808 concession Balfour Beatty Benham 90 Infrastructure Germany Military Communities investment Luisenstr.
38, 10117 Berlin LLC i InoSig GmbH 50 Construction Balfour Beatty PHELPS 90 Infrastructure services Military Communities investment Hong Kong LLC i 28th Floor, Devon House, Taikoo Place, BBC ApexOne Carolina 50 Infrastructure 979Kings Road Cove, LLC investment Gammon China Ltd 50 Investment BBC ApexOne Mobile 50 Infrastructure holding company Eastern, LLC investment Gammon Construction 50 Construction BBC Army Integrated, 50 Infrastructure Ltd iii services LLC investment Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 173 41 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2017 continued Associated undertakings incorporated Associated undertakings incorporated % held by the Principal in the United Kingdom outside the United Kingdom Name of undertaking Group activity % held % held Leonard Wood Family 10 Infrastructure by the Principal by the Principal Communities, LLC concession Name of undertaking Group activity Name of undertaking Group activity United Kingdom United States Nesbit Palisades, LLC 15 Infrastructure investment Newington House, 237 Southwark Bridge Road, Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls London SE1 6NP Drive, Wilmington fide 19808 Northeast Housing LLC 10 Infrastructure Power Asset 25 Infrastructure ACC Group Housing, 100 Infrastructure concession Development concession LLC i concession Northern Group Housing, 100 Infrastructure Company Ltd AETC Housing LP i ii 100 Infrastructure LLC i concession UK Power Networks 10 Infrastructure concession Infrastructure Services Powerlink Ltd concession Park Place Foley Owner, 50 AMC West Housing LP 100 Infrastructure investment LLC Ashford House, Grenadier Road, Exeter, EX1 3LH i ii concession UBB Waste Essex 30 Investment Carlisle Picatinny Family 10 Infrastructure Southeast Housing LLC 10 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd holding company Housing LP ii concession concession UBB Waste Essex 30 Infrastructure Carolina Cove 50 Infrastructure Infrastructure Summer Trace Gulf 50 Intermediate Ltd concession Wilmington Owner, LLC investment investment Shores Owner, LLC UBB Waste Essex Ltd 30 Infrastructure Coppell Properties, LLC 10 Infrastructure Stewart Hunter Housing 10 Infrastructure concession investment LLC concession UBB Waste 49.5 Investment DFW 5 Josey Ranch, 10 Infrastructure TBB Evergreen 15 Infrastructure Gloucestershire holding company LLC investment Commons, LLC investment Holdings Ltd DFW 5 Madison 10 Infrastructure TBB Evergreen Holdings, 15 Infrastructure UBB Waste 49.5 Infrastructure Parkway, LLC investment LLC investment Gloucestershire concession DFW 5 Round Grove, 10 Infrastructure Intermediate Ltd LLC investment TBB Evergreen Park, LLC 15 Infrastructure investment UBB Waste 49.5 Infrastructure DFW 5 Wimberly, LLC 10 Infrastructure Gloucestershire Ltd concession investment TBB Evergreen Terrace, 15 Infrastructure LLC investment DFW 5 Wimbledon 10 Infrastructure Oaks, LLC investment Vandenberg Housing 100 Infrastructure LP i ii concession DFW 5 Holdings, LLC 10 Infrastructure investment Western Group Housing, 100 Infrastructure LP i ii concession FDWR Parent LLC 10 Infrastructure concession West Point Housing LLC 10 Infrastructure concession Fort Bliss White Sands 10 Infrastructure Missile Range Housing concession Windscape Daphne 50 Infrastructure LP ii Owner, LLC investment Fort Carson Family 10 Infrastructure Housing LLC concession Notes: Fort Detrick Walter Reed 10 Infrastructure i The Group evaluated each of its interests in the military housing projects to determine if Army Medical Center concession the associated entities should be consolidated.
Housing LLC This analysis included, but was not limited to, identifying the activities that most signicantly Fort Eustis Fort Story 10 Infrastructure impact an entitys economic performance, which Housing LLC concession party or parties control those activities and the Fort Gordon Housing LLC 10 Infrastructure risks associated with these entities.
Decisionmaking power over key facets of the contracts concession were evaluated when determining which party Fort Hamilton Housing 10 Infrastructure or parties had control over the activities that LLC concession most signicantly impact a projects economics.
Based on this review, the Directors consider that Fort Jackson Housing LLC 10 Infrastructure the Group does not have the power to direct concession these activities and does not control or jointly control them and therefore the entities have Lackland Family Housing, 100 Infrastructure beenaccounted for as associated undertakings.
LLC i concession ii Partnership interests held.
