14 Strategic Report | Our business model Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Placing our customers at the centre of everything we do Delivering value Gaining competitive advantage through our resources and relationships through our strategy Our competitive advantage comes from our Our business model networks, our innovative technology, the expertise has been designed to of our people and the strength and breadth of our ensure we consistently partnership ecosystem deliver a high-quality service delivery for Market leading networks our customers L-BAND DUAL PAYLOAD Our resilient L-band networks, based on The Inmarsat-6 satellites comprise two our lnmarsat-3 and lnmarsat-4 satellite dual payload L-band and Ka-band satellites Capture maximum number constellations, will continue to support due to be launched at the start of the next 1 of broadband platforms the evolving mobile communications decade.
This will ensure the reorientation of requirements in our key customer segments.
our L-band capabilities towards new growth We will become a market leader for opportunities, as well as providing additional broadband services on the move.
Our new Inmarsat-6 satellites will capacity to the existing GX network.
Re-position L-band 2 KA-BAND S-BAND for new growth Global Xpress GX, based on our 4 Inmarsat-5 The integrated S-band satellite and We will continue to be a market satellites currently in orbit, is the worlds air-to-ground network, the EAN, will be leader in our L-band markets.
first global, mobile, high bandwidth network, a compelling and unique proposition designed to support our customers high for commercial aviation customers bandwidth connectivity requirements.
Establish our digital 3 platform and business GX-5 is currently being built.
We will become a digital services enabler.
Supported by: Our technology Best-in-class partner ecosystem Create a high-performance 4 organisation We continue to invest in innovation Our relationships with our partners, to deliver market-winning solutions from suppliers to distributors, help us We will continue to be an energising to our customers and differentiate to strengthen our service offering.
and inspiring place to work.
Read more 46 Read more 46 Transform our 5 operating environment Highly skilled workforce Our financial resources We will become a more efficient and effective organisation.
Our people have the skills, competencies We use our balance sheet to support the and experience to deliver our business organic and inorganic investment needed objectives and create value.
Our culture to deliver our strategic imperatives.
and values are focused on innovation Read more and performance excellence.
38 Read more 42 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements P A R T N E R S S R E P O Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Our business model 15 Our value chain Delivering value for our stakeholders By operating global satellite networks and fully optimised We are committed to ground infrastructure networks, supported by market-leading creating and delivering distribution partnerships, we provide our customers with sustained value for all global coverage to any device our stakeholders Maritime Shareholders and bondholders We aim to drive profitable growth to help deliver value for our shareholders and bondholders.
Customers and partners We focus on the key drivers of value Enterprise Aviation for our partners and customers such as security, reliability and seamless delivery with global coverage CUSTOMERS and mobility.
Employees We have a strong culture, underpinned by our values and our commitment to diversity, and we are focused on our employees career development, making internal promotions where possible.
Government Communities Our products, services and solutions enable our customers to operate safely, We are proud of our public service securely and efficiently and to deliver innovative communications services to their ethos and the part we play in ensuring users across our four customer-focused business segments.
the safety of the public and particularly the maritime community.
Read more about 20 our Business Units Our revenue streams Our four business units, Maritime, Government, Aviation and Enterprise, are our interfaces with our customers and drive the Groups revenue.
