During 2016, BlackRock, Inc. notified the company that its indirect shareholders.
A director may be removed by BP as provided for by interest in ordinary shares moved as follows: decreased below the applicable law and shall vacate office in certain circumstances as set previously disclosed threshold of 5% on 28April 2016: increased out in the Articles of Association.
In addition, the company may by above 5% on 9May 2016: decreased below 5% on 29July 2016: special resolution remove a director before the expiration of his her increased above 5% on 8August 2016: decreased below 5% on period of office and, subject to the Articles of Association, may by 4November 2016 and increased above 5% on 14November 2016. ordinary resolution appoint another person to be a director instead.
There is no requirement for a director to retire on reaching any age.
During 2017, BlackRock Inc. notified the company that its indirect interest in ordinary shares moved as follows: decreased below 5% on The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a director 9 February 2017: increased above 5% on 22 February 2017: voting in respect of any contract or arrangement in which the director decreased below 5% on 8 May 2017: increased above 5% on 15 May has a material interest other than by virtue of such directors interest 2017: increased above 5% on 14 August 2017: decreased below 5% in shares in the company.
However, in the absence of some other on 3 November 2017 and increased above 5% on 13 November 2017. material interest not indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a During 2018, BlackRock, Inc. notified the company that its indirect resolution concerning the following matters: interest in ordinary shares decreased below 5% on 12 February 2018.
The giving of security or indemnity with respect to any money lent As at 8March 2018, the total preference shares in issue comprised or obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of the only 0.42% of the companys total issued nominal share capital company or any of its subsidiaries.
excluding shares held in treasury, the rest being ordinary shares.
Any proposal in which the director is interested, concerning the Annual general meeting underwriting of company securities or debentures or the giving of any security to a third party for a debt or obligation of the company The 2018 AGM will be held on Monday 21May 2018 at 11.30am.
A or any of its subsidiaries.
separate notice convening the meeting is distributed to shareholders, which includes an explanation of the items of business to be Any proposal concerning any other company in which the director considered at the meeting.
is interested, directly or indirectly whether as an officer or shareholder or otherwise provided that the director and persons The board appointed Deloitte LLP as the company's new auditor with connected with such director are not the holder or holders of 1% effect from 29 March 2018 to fill the vacancy arising from Ernst & or more of the voting interest in the shares of such company.
Young LLP's resignation following completion of their audit of BPs 2017 financial statements.
At the 2018 AGM, the board will seek Any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of any shareholder approval for the appointment of Deloitte LLP as the insurance policy under which the director may benefit.
company's auditor until the conclusion of the next AGM at which the Any proposal concerning the giving to the director of any other company's accounts are laid before shareholders.
indemnity which is on substantially the same terms as indemnities given or to be given to all of the other directors or to the funding by Memorandum and Articles of the company of his expenditure on defending proceedings or the doing by the company of anything to enable the director to avoid Association incurring such expenditure where all other directors have been The following summarizes certain provisions of the companys given or are to be given substantially the same arrangements.
Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
Any proposal concerning an arrangement for the benefit of the This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the UK employees and directors or former employees and former directors Companies Act 2006 the Act and the companys Memorandum and of the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, including but Articles of Association.
For information on where investors can obtain without being limited to a retirement benefits scheme and an copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association see employees share scheme, which does not accord to any director Documents on display on page 287. any privilege or advantage not generally accorded to the employees The companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special or former employees to whom the arrangement relates.
resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
At the annual The Act requires a director of a company who is in any way interested general meeting AGM held on 17April 2008 shareholders voted to in a contract or proposed contract with the company to declare the adopt new Articles of Association, largely to take account of changes nature of the directors interest at a meeting of the directors of the in UK company law brought about by the Act.
The definition of interest includes the interests of the Articles of Association were approved by shareholders at the spouses, children, companies and trusts.
The Act also requires that a AGM held on 15April2010.
At the AGM held on 16April 2015 director must avoid a situation where a director has, or could have, a shareholders voted to adopt new Articles of Association to reflect direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with developments in practice and to provide clarification and additional the companys interests.
The Act allows directors of public companies flexibility.
New Articles of Association are being proposed at the AGM to authorize such conflicts where appropriate, if a companys Articles in 2018. of Association so permit.
BPs Articles of Association permit the authorization of such conflicts.
The directors may exercise all the Objects and purposes powers of the company to borrow money, except that the amount BP is a public company limited by shares, incorporated under the remaining undischarged of all moneys borrowed by the company shall name BP p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales with the not, without approval of the shareholders, exceed two times the registered number 102498.
The provisions regulating the operations amount paid up on the share capital plus the aggregate of the amount of the company, known as its objects, were historically stated in a of the capital and revenue reserves of the company.
Variation of the companys memorandum.
The Act abolished the need to have object borrowing power of the board may only be affected by amending the provisions and so at the AGM held on 15April 2010 shareholders Articles of Association.
approved the removal of its objects clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum that, by virtue of the Act, are treated Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined in the as forming part of the companys Articles of Association.
aggregate by resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of executive directors is determined by the remuneration committee.
Directors This committee is made up of non-executive directors only.
There is no requirement of share ownership for a directors qualification.
The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
The companys Articles of Association provide that directors may be appointed by the existing directors or by the shareholders in a general meeting.
Any person appointed by the directors will hold office only until the next general meeting, notice of which is first given after their appointment and will then be eligible for re-election by the 284 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary
