Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 107 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 1.
General information b Basis of consolidation TP ICAP plc formerly Tullett Prebon plc is a company incorporated in The Groups Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the England and Wales under the Companies Act.
The address of the Financial Statements of the Company and entities controlled by registered office is given on page 158.
The nature of the Groups the Company made up to 31 December each year.
Under IFRS 10 operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Consolidated Financial Statements, control is achieved where the Report on pages 90 to 93 and in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 47.
Company exercises power over anentity, is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the 2.
Basis of preparation ability to use its power to affect the returns from the entity.
a Basis of accounting The Groups Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from IFRSs adopted by the European Union and comply with Article 4 theeffective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of of the EU IAS Regulation.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting The Financial Statements are presented in Pounds sterling because policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All interthat is the currency of the primary economic environment in which company transactions, balances, income and expenses are the Group operates and are rounded to the nearest million pounds eliminated on consolidation.
expressed as m, except where otherwise indicated.
The significant accounting policies are set out in Note 3.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Those interests of non-controlling The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical shareholders that are present ownership interests entitling their cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments holders to a proportionate share of net assets upon liquidation held at fair values at the end of each reporting period, asexplained in may initially be measured at fair value or at the non-controlling the accounting policies.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
Other non-controlling interests are initially measured at fair value.
The choice of measurement is made on Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid anacquisition by acquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, the to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation share of subsequent changes in equity.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the is attributed to non-controlling interests even if thisresults in the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability non-controlling interest having a deficit balance.
if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a Fairvalue for measurement and or disclosure purposes in these loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying Consolidated Financial Statements is determined on such a basis, amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests except for share-based payment transactions that are within the are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of subsidiaries.
Any differences between the amount by which the IAS17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in IAS 2 or value consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity inuse in IAS 36. and attributed to the owners of the Company.
For financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which inputs disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance ofthe fair value of theconsideration received and the fair value of of the inputs to the fairvalue measurement in its entirety, which are any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the described as follows: assets, including goodwill, less liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
Amounts previously recognised in other Level 1 inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for identical assets or liabilities: for in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included liabilities are disposed of.
The fair value of any investment retained within Level1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either in the former subsidiary at the date when control was lost is regarded directly i. e. asprices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
com 108 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
Basis of preparation continued e Adoption of new and revised Standards c Presentation of the Income Statement The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation of its havebeen adopted in the current year although their adoption Consolidated Income Statement.
The columnar format enables the hasnot had any significant impact on the Financial Statements: Group to continue its practice of aiding the understanding of its Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle, relating to results by presenting its underlying profit.
This is the profit measure improvements effective from 1 January 2017 : used to calculate underlying EPS Note 11 and is considered to be Amendments to IAS 7 Cash flow statements regarding the most appropriate as it better reflects the Groups underlying disclosures: and earnings.
Underlying profit is reconciled to profit before tax on the Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes regarding the recognition face of the Consolidated Income Statement, which also includes of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses.
acquisition, disposal and integration costs and exceptional items.
At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the The column acquisition, disposal and integration costs includes: any following EU endorsed Standards and Interpretations were in issue gains, losses or other associated costs on the full or partial disposal but not yet effective.
The Group has not applied these Standards of investments, associates, joint ventures or subsidiaries and costs or Interpretations in the preparation of these Financial Statements: associated with a business combination that do not constitute fees relating to the arrangement of financing: amortisation of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments intangible assets arising on consolidation: any remeasurement The Group will apply IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018.
The Group has afterinitial recognition of contingent consideration which has been elected not to restate comparatives on initial application of IFRS 9. classified as a liability: and any gains or losses on the revaluation of The full impact of adopting IFRS 9 on the Groups consolidated previous interests.
The column may also include items such as gains or financial statements will depend on the financial instruments that losses on the settlement of pre-existing relationships with acquired the Group has during 2018 as well as on economic conditions and businesses and the remeasurement of liabilities that are above the judgements made as at the year end.
The Group has performed a value of indemnification.
Acquisition related integration costs include preliminary assessment of potential impact of adopting IFRS 9 costs associated with exit or disposal activities, which do not meet the based on the financial instruments as at 31 December 2017. criteria of discontinued operations, including costs for employee and TheGroup had no hedging relationships as at this date.
lease terminations, or other exit activities.
Additionally, these costs include expenses directly related to integrating and reorganising Classification and measurement acquired businesses and include items such as employee retention With respect to the classification and measurement of financial costs, recruiting costs, certain moving costs, certain duplicative costs assets, the number of categories of financial assets under IFRS 9 has during integration and asset impairments.
been reduced compared to lAS 39.
Under IFRS 9 the classification of financial assets is based both on the business model within which Items which are of a non-routine nature and material, when theasset is held and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the considering both size and nature, are disclosed separately to asset.
There are three principal classification categories for financial give a clearer presentation of the Groups results.
These are assets that are debt instruments: i amortised cost, ii fair value shown as exceptional items on the face of the Consolidated through other comprehensive income FVTOCI and iii fair value Income Statement.
through profit or loss FVTPL.
Equity investments in scope of IFRS 9 are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised in profit d Going concern or loss unless an irrevocable election is made to recognise gains or The Directors have, at the time of approving the Financial losses in other comprehensive income.
Under IFRS 9, derivatives Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate embedded in financial assets are not bifurcated but instead the resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable whole hybrid contract is assessed for classification.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further detail is Under IFRS 9, financial assets can be designated as at FVTPL to contained in the going concern section and viability statement mitigate an accounting mismatch.
included in the Strategic report on page 35.
In respect to classification and measurement of financial liabilities, changes in the fair value of a financial liability designated as at FVTPL due to credit risk are presented in other comprehensive income unless such presentation would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 109 2.
Basis of preparation continued The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity should recognise e Adoption of new and revised Standards continued revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to Based on the Groups preliminary assessment there will be no customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the impacton the classification and measurement of the Groups entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
financial assets, except for assets that were classified as , the Standard introduces a five step approach to revenue for-sale under lAS 39 which, at the date of initial application of IFRS recognition: 9, the Group has elected to apply the FVTOCI option.
Step 1: Identify the contract s with a customer There will be no change in the accounting for financial liabilities.
Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract Impairment Step 3: Determine the transaction price The impairment model under IFRS 9 reflects expected credit losses, Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance as opposed to only incurred credit losses under IAS 39.
Under the obligations in the contract impairment approach it is not necessary for a credit event to have Step 5: Recognise revenue when or as the entity satisfies a occurred before credit losses are recognised.
Instead, an entity performance obligation always accounts for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit losses.
The amount of expected credit losses are Under IFRS 15, an entity recognises revenue as and when control of updated at each reporting date.
the goods or services underlying a particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer.
The Standard introduces prescriptive The new impairment model will apply to the Groups financial assets guidance and additional disclosure requirements.
that are debt instruments measured at amortised costs or FVTOCI.
The application of IFRS 15 will not significantly impact the amount The Group expects to apply the simplified approach to recognise ortiming of the revenue recognised by the Group.
Name Passing lifetime expected credit losses for its trade receivables and andExecuting Brokerage will continue to be recognised at trade settlement balances, as required or permitted by IFRS 9. date.
Revenue from the provision of Data & Analytics will continue tobe recognised over the duration of the contract for the provision With regards to financial assets, and cash and cash equivalents, ofthose services.
theGroup has determined that they have low credit risk as at 31 December 2017.
The Group intends to apply the low credit risk IFRS 16 Leases simplification in IFRS 9 which allows the Group to assume that IFRS 16 introduces comprehensive changes to the identification therehas not been a significant increase in credit risk since initial andaccounting for leases.
The Group currently expects to adopt recognition of these assets and therefore recognise a loss allowance theStandard for the year ending 31 December 2019. for only 12-month expected credit losses as at 31 December 2017.
IFRS 16 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis of The application of the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 will not have whether an asset is controlled by the customer.
The distinction a material impact on the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
between operating leases and finance leases is removed.
Instead, allleases, except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets, Hedge accounting are recorded as a rightof-use asset with a corresponding liability.
Until the Group applies hedge accounting it does not anticipate that the application of the IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements will have The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently a material impact on the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
adjusted, subject to certain exceptions, for accumulated depreciation, impairment losses, and any remeasurement of the associated lease IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers liability.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value IFRS 15 establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in offuture lease payments and subsequently adjusted for interest, accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
IFRS 15 leasepayments, and the impact of any lease modifications.
will supersede the current revenue recognition guidance including lAS18 Revenue and related Interpretations.
The Group is required to Lease cash flows, currently presented as operating cash flows, will be adopt IFRS 15 for the year ending 31 December 2018 and will adopt the split into payments of principal and interest and will be presented as modified retrospective approach without restatement of comparatives.
financing and operating cash flows respectively.
com 110 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies e Adoption of new and revised Standards continued a Income recognition As at 31 December 2017, the Group has non-cancellable operating Revenue, which excludes sales taxes, includes brokerage including lease commitments of 244m Note 34.
A preliminary assessment of commissions, fees earned and subscriptions for information sales.
these arrangements indicates that they meet the IFRS 16 definition of Fee income is recognised when the related services are completed a lease and the Group would be required to apply the requirements and the income is considered receivable.
Recognising right-of-use assets and related lease Revenue comprises: liabilities is expected to have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
The i Name Passing brokerage, where counterparties to a transaction Directors are currently assessing the potential impact together with settle directly with each other.
Revenue for the service of impact of the transitional options in IFRS 16.
It is not practicable to matching buyers and sellers of financial instruments is stated provide a reasonable estimate of the financial effect until the netof sales taxes, rebates and discounts and is recognised in Directors complete the review.
fullon trade date: ii Matched Principal brokerage revenue, being the net proceeds Other changes in Standards and Interpretations: from a commitment to simultaneously buy and sell financial Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payment transactions instruments with counterparties, is recognised on trade date: regarding the classification and measurement of share-based iii Executing Broker brokerage, where the Group executes payment transactions: and transactions on certain regulated exchanges and then gives-up Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle, relating to the trade to the relevant client, or its clearing member.
Revenue improvements effective from 1 January 2018. for the service of matching buyers and sellers of financial instruments is stated net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts The following Standards and Interpretations have not been endorsed and is recognised in full on trade date: and bytheEU and have not been applied in the preparation of these iv Fees earned from the sales of price information from financial FinancialStatements: and commodity markets to third parties is recognised on an accruals basis to match the provision of the service.
Amendments to IAS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment orSettlement: Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015-2017 Cycle : theprincipal outstanding and at the effective interest rate Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in Associates and applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised Joint Ventures: whenthe Groups right to receive the payment is established.
Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation: b Business combinations Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property: Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments: the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition IFRIC Interpretation 22 relating to foreign currency ismeasured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of transactionsand advance consideration: and exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts.
equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition costs are recognised inprofit or loss Other than where stated, the Directors do not expect the adoption as incurred.
ofthe above Standards and Interpretations will have a material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group in future periods.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured atits acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values areadjusted against the cost of the acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about the facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
All subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset ora liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 111 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the b Business combinations continued fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any discount in the cost previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to of acquisition below the Groups share of the fair value of the fair value at the acquisition date and any resulting gain or loss identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the the acquiree prior to the acquisition that have previously been year of acquisition.
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate ifthat interest profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups was disposed of.
Losses may provide evidence The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities ofimpairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are provision is made for impairment.
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: d Interests in joint arrangements deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised and measured A joint arrangement is a contractual arrangement whereby the in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes: Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements is subject to joint control.
are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 19 Joint ventures are joint arrangements which involve the Employee Benefits: establishment of a separate entity in which each party has rights acquiree share-based payment awards replaced by Group to the net assets of the arrangement.
The Group reports its awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based interests in joint ventures using the equity method of accounting, Payments: and based on financial information made up to 31 December each year.
assets or disposal groups that are classified for sale are measured Investments in joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share Discontinued Operations.
of the net assets of the joint venture, less any impairment in the If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by value of individual investments.
Lossesof the joint venture in the end of the reporting period in which the business combination excess of the Groups interest in those joint ventures are recognised occurs, provisional amounts are reported.
Those provisional amounts only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets obligations or made payments under the terms of thejoint venture.
or liabilities recognised, to reflect the facts and circumstances that e Goodwill existed as at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the Non-controlling interests in the acquired entity are initially cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of measuredat the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
a subsidiary or associate atthe date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised at cost and is subsequently measured at cost c Investment in associates less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS hasbeen exercise significant influence.
Significant influence is the power retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts at that date.
toparticipate in the financial and operating decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over these policies.
Goodwill recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment loss is recognised as an expense The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated immediately and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of in these Financial Statements based on financial information impairment testing goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups madeup to 31 December each year using the equity method of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of accounting, except when classified as held for sale.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than investments.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups thecarrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit, the interest in those associates are recognised only to the extent that impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets payments on behalf of the associate.
of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
com 112 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued g Property, plant and equipment e Goodwill continued Freehold land is stated at cost.
Buildings, furniture, fixtures, Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture equipment and motor vehicles are stated at cost less accumulated isincluded within the carrying value of the associate or the joint depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates presented separately in the balance sheet.
calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the basedon prices prevailing at the date of acquisition, of each attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination assetona straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: ofthe profit or loss on disposal.
Furniture, fixtures, equipment f Intangible assets and motor vehicles 3 to 10 years Software and software development costs Short and long leasehold An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups land and buildings period of the lease software development is recognised at cost only if all of the following Freehold land infinite conditions aremet: Freehold buildings 50 years an asset is created that can be identified: Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected it is probable that the asset created will generate future useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the economic benefits: and term of the relevant lease.
the development costs of the asset can be measured reliably.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is Where the above conditions are not met, costs are expensed determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and as incurred.
thecarrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Acquired separately or from a business combination h Impairment of tangible and intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and excluding goodwill intangible assets acquired in a business acquisition are capitalised At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts at fair value at the date of acquisition.
The useful lives of these of its tangible and intangible assets with finite lives to determine intangible assets are assessed tobe either finite or indefinite.
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an Amortisation charged on assets with a finiteuseful life is taken impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount to the income statement through administrative expenses.
of the asset is estimated in order todetermine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows Other than software development costs, intangible assets created that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the within thebusiness are not capitalised and expenditure is charged to recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset the income statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the Intangible assets are amortised over their finite useful lives generally asset maybe impaired.
on astraight-line basis, as follows: Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less any cost to sell Software: and valuein use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash Purchased or developed up to 5 years flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount Software licences over the period of the licence rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Acquisition intangibles: Brand Trademarks up to 5 years If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is Customer relationships 2 to 20 years estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount Other intangibles over the period of the contract of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an expense Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased may not berecoverable.
to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are that would have been determined had no impairment loss been measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income statement when the asset is derecognised.
immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treatedas a revaluation increase.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 113 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The Group acts as an intermediary between its customers for i Broker contract payments collateralised stock lending transactions.
Such trades are complete Payments made to brokers under employment contracts which are only when both the collateral and stock for each side of the in advance of the expected economic benefit due to the Group are transaction are returned.
The gross amounts of collateral due to accounted for as prepayments and included within trade and other andreceivable are disclosed in the balance sheet as deposits paid receivables.
Payments made in advance are subject to repayment forsecurities borrowed and deposits received for securities loaned.
conditions during the contract period and the prepayment is Fair value through profit or loss amortised over the shorter of the contract term and the period Financial assets and liabilities can be designated at fair value the payment remains recoverable.
Amounts that are irrecoverable, through profit or loss where they meet specific criteria set out in or become irrecoverable, are written off immediately.
IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or where assets orliabilities are held for trading.
Subsequent changes Payments made in arrears are accrued and are included within trade infair value are recognised directly in the income statement.
Other financial liabilities j Financial assets and financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the measured at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are subsequently Groups balance sheet when the Group has become a party measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
withinterest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
Financial instruments are derecognised when all derecognition Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, criteria ofIAS39 are met and the Group no longer controls the are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet contractual rights thatcomprise the financial instrument.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence normally the case when the instrument is sold, or all of the cash that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial flowsattributable to the instrument are passed through to an recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of independent third party.
the investment have been impacted.
Impairment is recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets are classified on initial recognition as available-forsale, loans and receivables or at fair value through profit or loss k Derivative financial instruments FVTPL.
Financial liabilities are classified on initial recognition Derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency contracts aseither atfair value through profit or loss FVTPL or as other and interest rate swaps, are entered into by the Group in order financial liabilities.
to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency Available-for-sale fluctuations or as simultaneous back-to-back transactions with Certain of the Groups investments are classified as available-for-sale counterparties.
The Group does not use derivative financial financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured instruments for speculative purposes.
at fairvalue and changes therein, other than impairment losses and Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a foreign exchange gains and losses on available-for-sale monetary derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured items, are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or For equity financial assets, where the fair value cannot be reliably loss is recognised immediately unless the derivative is designated measured, the assets are held at cost less any provision for and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing impairment.
These assets are generally expected to be held for of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the thelong term and are included in non-current assets.
asholdings in exchanges, cash related instruments and long termequity investments that do not qualify as associates or joint A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current ventures are classified as available-for-sale.
When an investment is liability if theremaining maturity of the instrument is more than derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in other comprehensive 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within income is transferred to profit or loss.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or Loans and receivables current liabilities.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial instruments that have fixed or determinable payments that are not listed in an active market.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate, except for short term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Settlement balances, trade receivables, loans and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
com 114 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued o Cash and cash equivalents l Hedge accounting Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits which may be Derivatives designated as hedges are either fair value hedges accessed without penalty.
Cash equivalents comprise short term or hedges ofnet investments in foreign operations.
highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition.
For the purposes of the Consolidated Fair value hedges Cash Flow Statement, cashand cash equivalents consist of cash Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss bank overdrafts.
immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The changes The Group holds money, and occasionally financial instruments, in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the changes in on behalf of customers client monies in accordance with local the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised regulatory rules.
Since the Group is not beneficially entitled to these in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
amounts, they are excluded from the Consolidated Balance Sheet along with the corresponding liabilities to customers.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, Restricted funds comprise cash held with a central counterparty terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
clearing house CCP, or a financial institution providing the Group The adjustment to thecarrying amount of the hedged item arising with access to a CCP, and funds set aside for regulatory purposes, but from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
The funds represent cash for which the Group does not have immediate and direct access or for which regulatory Net investment hedges requirements restrict the use of the cash.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as net investment hedges is recognised in p Interest bearing loans and borrowings the hedging and translation reserve in other comprehensive income.
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised being the consideration received net of issue costs associated immediately in profit or loss, and is included in financial income with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are Gains and losses deferred in the hedging and translation reserve measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
are recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
Amortised cost is calculated taking into account any issue costs andany discounts or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses m Settlement balances arerecognised in the income statement when the liabilities are Certain Group companies engage in Matched Principal brokerage derecognised, as well as through the amortisation process.
whereby securities are bought from one counterparty and simultaneously sold to another counterparty.
Settlement of such q Provisions transactions are primarily on a delivery vs payment basis DVP and Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation, typically take place within a few business days of the transaction date legal or constructive, as a result of a past event where it is probable according to the relevant market rules and conventions.
The amounts that this will result in an outflow of economic benefits that can be due from and payable to counterparties in respect of as yet unsettled reliably estimated.
Matched Principal transactions are shown gross, except where a netting agreement, which is legally enforceable at all times, exists Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has andthe asset and liability are either settled net or simultaneously.
a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, which has been notified to affected parties.
n Derivative financial instrument balances arising from business activities r Foreign currencies The Group undertakes Matched Principal broking involving The individual financial statements of each Group company are simultaneous back-to-back derivative transactions with prepared inthe currency of the primary economic environment in counterparties.
These transactions are classified as financial which it operates, itsfunctional currency.
For the purpose of the instruments at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL and are Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial position shown gross, except where a netting agreement, which is legally of each Group company are expressed in Pounds sterling, which is enforceable at all times, exists and the asset and liability are either the functional currency of the Company and the presentation settled net or simultaneously.
currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 115 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued t Leases r Foreign currencies continued Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, substantially allthe risks and benefits incidental to ownership of transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are theleased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the recorded atthe rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of transactions.
Gains and losses arising from the settlement of these the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned transactions, and from the retranslation of monetary assets and between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional so as to achieve a constant rate of interest onthe remaining balance currency at rates prevailing at the balance sheet date, are recognised of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the denominated in currencies other than the functional currency estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
thatare measured at historical cost or fair value are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction or at the date Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and the fair value wasdetermined.
benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the For the purpose of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
u Retirement benefit costs Exchange differences arising are classified as other comprehensive Defined contributions made to employees personal pension income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such plans are charged to the income statement as and when incurred.
translation differences are recognised as income oras expense in the year in which the operation is disposed of.
Income and expense For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing the items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, unless benefits isdetermined using the projected unit credit method.
exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that year, in which case Actuarial gains andlosses are recognised in full in the year the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
They are recognised outside the income statementand are presented in other comprehensive income.
s Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current tax payable arising in Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the the year, movements in deferred tax and movements in tax provisions.
benefits have already vested, and is otherwise amortised on a The tax expense includes any interest and penalties payable.
straight-line basis overthe average period until the amended benefits become vested.
The current tax payable arising in the year is based on taxable profit for theyear using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively The amount recognised in the balance sheet represents the net of enacted bythe balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for payable in respect ofprior years.
actuarial gains and losses and past service cost, and the fair value of plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability unrecognised actuarial losses and past service cost, plus the present method in respect of temporary differences arising between value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the Financial the plan.
Statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally v Share-based payments recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured will be available against which deductible temporary differences atfair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the may be utilised.
Temporary differences are not recognised if they grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed arise from goodwill or from initial recognition of other assets and on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the tax profit nor estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair value of share options issued is determined using Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary appropriate valuation models.
The expected life used in the differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, modelshas been adjusted, based on managements best estimate except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and temporary difference and itisprobable that the temporary behavioural considerations.
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The estimated fair value of shares granted is based on the share price Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply at grant date, reduced where shares do not qualify for dividends when theasset or liability is settled or when the asset is realised.
Market-based performance conditions Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, for equity-settled payments are reflected in the initial fair value except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to of the award.
othercomprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred taxis also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
com 116 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The following key assumptions concerning the future, and other w Equity instruments sources of estimation uncertainty that may have a significant risk of Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
An equity instrument are discussed below.
is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Retirement benefit asset Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The Groups retirement benefit asset is the net of its defined benefit schemes assets and the related defined benefit obligation.
The x Treasury shares defined benefit obligation represents the schemes future liabilities, Where share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount which are valued using actuarial and other financial assumptions, of theconsideration paid, including directly attributable costs, net discounted to a current value using a discount rate set by reference of any tax effects, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
When tomarket yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The value of the treasury shares are sold or re-issued subsequently, the amount defined benefit obligation is sensitive to changes in the actuarial, received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting financial and discount rate assumptions, changes towhich would be surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to or from reflected in other comprehensive income in the period the change retained earnings.
Note 35 describes the assumptions used together with an y Accounting estimates and judgements analysis of the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
In the application of the Groups accounting policies, the Directors Identification and measurement of intangible assets arising are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions on consolidation aboutthe carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not Accounting for business combinations requires the excess of the readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated purchase price of acquisitions to be allocated to the identifiable assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors assets and liabilities of the acquired entity.
The Group makes that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from estimates to determine the acquisition date fair values of the these estimates.
intangible assets that arise on consolidation and to estimate the useful lives of these assets.
Note 30 provides details of acquisitions Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and related adjustments made during the year.
A 5% increase in andrevisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period thevalue of separately identifiable intangibles arising onthe an estimate is revised.
acquisition of ICAP would have decreased goodwill by 24m.
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets estimations, that the Directors have made in the process of Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired preparing the Financial Statements.
requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which these assets have been allocated.
The value in use Pension bulk annuity calculation requires estimation of future cash flows expected to arise Judgement has been applied regarding the impact of purchasing for the cash-generating unit, the selection of suitable discount rates the bulk annuity policy discussed in Note 35.
This buy-in has been and the estimation of future growth rates.
Note 13 describes the accounted for in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19 assumptions used together with an analysis of the sensitivity to Employee Benefits.
As the actual purchase price of the policy was reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
higher than the accounting value of the policy, a reduction in the Schemes assets was recorded.
It was determined that this reduction Provisions and contingent liabilities should be included within the Return on Scheme assets and reported Provisions are established by the Group based on managements as part of the Groups Remeasurement of defined benefit pension assessment of relevant information and advice available at schemes included within the Consolidated Statement of the time of preparing the Financial Statements.
required as to when contingent liabilities become disclosable and when a provision needs to be recognised.
Outcomes are uncertain and dependent on future events.
Where outcomes differ from managements expectations, differences from the amount initially provided will impact profit or loss in the period the outcome is determined.
Estimating potential legal outcomes is a significant areaof estimation uncertainty.
Note 24 and Note 33 provide details of the Groups provisions and contingent liabilities.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 117 4.
Segmental analysis Products and services from which reportable segments derive their revenues The Group is organised by geographic reporting segments which are used for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segmental performance by Group management.
These are the Groups reportable segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Revenue arising in each geographic reportable segment is derived from four business divisions: Global Broking, Energy & Commodities, Institutional Services, and Data & Analytics.
Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2016 has been classified by business division having been previously reported by the former product groupings of Energy & Commodities, Interest Rate Derivatives, Fixed Income, Treasury Products, Equities, and Information Sales and Risk Management Services.
Information regarding the Groups operating segments is reported below: Analysis by geographic segment 2017 2016 m m Revenue EMEA 877 481 Americas 628 280 Asia Pacific 252 131 1,757 892 Operating profit EMEA 170 98 Americas 64 18 Asia Pacific 29 16 Underlying operating profit 263 132 Acquisition, disposal and integration costs Note 6 127 57 Exceptional items Note 6 34 2 Reported operating profit 102 73 Finance income 6 5 Finance costs 36 21 Profit before tax 72 57 Taxation 3 17 Profit after tax 75 40 Share of results of associates and joint ventures 12 4 Profit for the year 87 44 There are no inter-segment sales included in segment revenue.
TP ICAP plc is domiciled in the UK.
Revenue attributable to the UK amounted to 795m 2016: 423m and the total revenue from other countries was 962m 2016: 469m.
com 118 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 4.
Segmental analysis continued Other segmental information 2017 2016 m m Capital additions EMEA UK 28 15 Americas 10 1 Asia Pacific 3 1 41 17 2017 2016 m m Depreciation and amortisation EMEA UK 27 10 EMEA Other 2 1 Americas 10 4 Asia Pacific 2 1 41 16 2017 2016 m m Share-based compensation EMEA UK including 14m relating to acquisitions and integration 2016: 16m 16 19 Americas 2 2 Asia Pacific 1 19 21 2016 Non-current Current 2017 m m m m restated Segment assets EMEA UK 1,132 4,874 6,006 8,399 EMEA Other 40 151 191 77 Americas 526 30,279 30,805 16,590 Asia Pacific 203 147 350 258 1,901 35,451 37,352 25,324 Unallocated goodwill arising on acquisitions Note 13 21 21 689 1,922 35,451 37,373 26,013 2016 Non-current Current 2017 m m m m restated Segment liabilities EMEA UK 320 4,616 4,936 7,699 EMEA Other 48 128 176 50 Americas 283 29,995 30,278 16,197 Asia Pacific 108 42 150 148 759 34,781 35,540 24,094 Segment assets and liabilities exclude all inter-segment balances.
1 Restated to reflect the finalisation of the acquisition of ICAP Note 30 a. TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 119 4.
Segmental analysis continued Analysis by business division 2017 2016 m m Revenue Rates 528 215 Credit 117 78 FX & Money Markets 218 137 Emerging Markets 225 94 Equities 182 57 Global Broking 1,270 581 Energy & Commodities 343 244 Institutional Services 32 17 Data & Analytics 112 50 1,757 892 5.
Other operating income Other operating income represents receipts such as rental income, royalties, insurance proceeds, settlements from competitors, business relocation grants and pension scheme settlement gain Note 35.
Costs associated with such items are included in administrative expenses.
Profit for the year The profit for the year has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2017 2016 m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 15 12 8 Amortisation of other intangible assets Note 14 29 8 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation Note 13 40 2 Staff costs Note 7 1,153 589 Net foreign exchange gains 1 2 Auditors remuneration for audit services see below 5 4 Acquisition, disposal and integration costs comprise: 2017 2016 m m ICAP acquisition costs 17 ICAP integration costs 79 19 Other acquisition costs 1 Acquisition related share-based payment charge 9 17 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation 40 2 Adjustments to acquisition consideration Note 30 d 1 2 128 57 Other income 1 Finance costs Note 9 6 127 63 Taxation 54 5 73 58 www.
com 120 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 6.
Profit for the year continued ICAP integration costs incurred in the year can be analysed as follows: 2017 2016 m m Employee related costs 35 7 Share-based payment charge 5 Premises, equipment and other intangible assets 3 1 Other administrative costs 36 11 79 19 Exceptional items comprise: 2017 2016 m m Pension scheme settlement gain Note 35 4 Charge relating to cost improvement programmes 32 6 Charge relating to employee long-term benefits 2 34 2 Taxation 10 24 2 The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2016 2017 000 000 restated Audit of the Groups annual accounts 435 1,292 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation 4,222 2,205 Total audit fees 4,657 3,497 Audit related assurance services 999 353 Other assurance services 77 73 Taxation compliance services 129 Other taxation advisory services 34 4 Corporate finance services 899 Total non-audit fees 1,076 1,488 Audit fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates in respect of associated pension schemes 18 18 1 The comparatives for 2016 have been restated in line with the classifications set out in the Financial Reporting Councils Revised Ethical Standard 2016.
2 Audit related assurance services relate to services required by law or regulation, assurance on regulatory returns and review of interim financial information.
3 Other assurance services relate to non-statutory audits and other permitted assurance services.
4 In 2016, corporate finance services related primarily to the acquisition of ICAP, 200,000 relating to due diligence services and 600,000 as reporting accountants.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 121 7.
Staff costs The average monthly number of full time equivalent employees and Directors of the Group was: 2017 2016 No.
EMEA 2,338 1,267 Americas 1,674 838 Asia Pacific 1,116 599 5,128 2,704 The aggregate employment costs of staff and Directors were: 2017 2016 m m Wages, salaries, bonuses and incentive payments 1,039 519 Social security costs 82 42 Defined contribution pension costs Note 35 c 13 7 Acquisition related share-based payment charge 9 17 Other share-based compensation expense 10 4 1,153 589 8.
Finance income 2017 2016 m m Interest receivable and similar income 3 2 Deemed interest arising on the defined benefit pension scheme surplus Note 35 3 3 6 5 9.
Finance costs Acquisition Underlying related Total m m m 2017 Interest and fees payable on bank facilities 4 4 Interest payable on Sterling Notes June 2019 4 4 Interest payable on Sterling Notes January 2024 24 24 Other interest payable 1 1 Amortisation of debt issue and bank facility costs 3 3 Total borrowing costs 36 36 2016 Interest and fees payable on bank facilities 4 3 7 Interest payable on Sterling Notes July 2016 5 5 Interest payable on Sterling Notes June 2019 4 4 Other interest payable 1 1 Amortisation of debt issue and bank facility costs 1 3 4 Total borrowing costs 15 6 21 Acquisition related items in 2016 included fees and interest incurred on facilities arranged in contemplation of the acquisition of ICAP.
com 122 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 10.
Taxation 2017 2016 m m Current tax UK corporation tax 19 11 Overseas tax 13 5 Prior year UK corporation tax Prior year overseas tax 3 29 16 Deferred tax Note 20 Current year 32 1 Prior year 32 1 Tax credit charge for the year 3 17 The credit charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit in the income statement as follows: 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 72 57 Tax based on the UK corporation tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20% 14 11 Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible 9 9 Unrecognised timing differences 8 Prior year adjustments 3 Impact of tax rate change 24 Impact of overseas tax rates 1 5 Tax credit charge for the year 3 17 The UK corporation tax rate for 2017 is 19.25% reflecting three months at 20% and nine months at 19% 2016: 20%.
The impact of tax rate change is a 24m reduction in the deferred tax liability that was recognised in relation to the intangible assets of 636m that arose on acquisition of ICAP, due to the reduction in the US federal rate of tax Notes 20 and 30 a.
In addition to the income statement charge, the following current and deferred tax items have been included in other comprehensive income and equity: Recognised in other comprehensive Recognised income in equity Total m m m 2017 Deferred tax credit relating to: Decrease in the defined benefit pension scheme surplus 16 16 Tax credit on items taken directly to other comprehensive income and equity 16 16 2016 Deferred tax charge relating to: Increase in the defined benefit pension scheme surplus 2 2 Tax charge on items taken directly to other comprehensive income and equity 2 2 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 123 11.
Earnings per share 2017 2016 Basic underlying 33.3p 42.5p Diluted underlying 32.7p 41.0p Basic earnings per share 15.8p 17.8p Diluted earnings per share 15.5p 17.2p The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following number of shares: 2017 2016 No.
m 1 Basic weighted average shares 551.8 242.3 Contingently issuable shares 10.9 9.1 1 Diluted weighted average shares 562.7 251.4 1 The 310,314,296 shares issued to acquire ICAP at the end of December 2016 have a nil weighting when calculating the weighted average number of shares as at 31 December 2016 because the shares were issued at the end of the year and none of the earnings related to the newly issued shares.
The earnings used in the calculation of underlying, basic and diluted earnings per share are set out below: 2017 2016 m m Earnings for the year 87 44 Non-controlling interests 1 Earnings 87 43 Acquisition, disposal and integration costs Note 6 127 63 Exceptional items Note 6 34 2 Taxation 64 5 Underlying earnings 184 103 12.
Dividends 2017 2016 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 11.25p per share 27 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 5.6p per share 31 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 11.25p per share 27 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 5.6p per share 14 58 41 In respect of the current year, the Directors propose a final dividend of 11.25p per share amounting to 63m which will be paid on 17 May 2018 to all shareholders that are on the Register of Members on 6 April 2018.
This dividend has not been included asaliability in these Financial Statements.
The trustees of the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 have waived their rights to dividends.
com 124 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 13.
Intangible assets arising on consolidation Goodwill Other Total m m m At 1 January 2017 restated 1,066 646 1,712 Recognised on acquisitions 21 3 24 Amortisation of acquisition related intangibles 40 40 Effect of movements in exchange rates 35 19 54 At 31 December 2017 1,052 590 1,642 At 1 January 2016 347 10 357 Recognised on acquisitions ICAP restated 689 636 1,325 Recognised on acquisitions other 4 4 Amortisation of acquisition related intangibles 2 2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 26 2 28 At 31 December 2016 restated 1,066 646 1,712 1 Restated to reflect the finalisation of the acquisition of ICAP Note 30 a.
Other intangible assets at 31 December 2017 represent customer relationships, 561m 2016: 607m, business brands and trade marks, 21m 2016: 28m, and other intangibles, 8m 2016: 11m that arise through business combinations.
Customer relationships are being amortised over 20 years.
Goodwill arising through business combinations is allocated to groups of individual cash-generating units CGUs, reflecting the lowest level at which the Group monitors and tests goodwill for impairment purposes.
The CGU groupings are as follows: 2017 m CGU EMEA 644 Americas 284 Asia Pacific 103 Goodwill allocated to CGUs 1,031 Unallocated goodwill 21 1,052 In 2016, goodwill was allocated to the Groups three regional operating segments, PVM and Brazil.
During 2017, the PVM and Brazilian operations were integrated into the regional operating segments and the associated goodwill was reallocated to those segments.
The allocation of goodwill arising on the acquisition of ICAP Note 30 a has been completed during 2017.
This has been allocated to the three regional operating segments that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
As at 31 December 2017 the provisional amount of goodwill arising on the acquisition of COEX Note 30 b was not allocated to a group ofCGUs due to the proximity of the acquisition to the year end.
As permitted by IAS 36 Impairment of assets, allocation to relevant CGUs willbe completed before the end of 2018.
As the goodwill has not been allocated to relevant CGUs it has not been assessed for impairment inthe current period.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount of each CGU.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its value in use VIU or its fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD.
As at 31 December 2017 none of the Groups CGUs are impaired with the recoverable amount for each CGU having been based on its FVLCD.
Two FVLCD valuation methods were used, an Income Approach and a Market Approach.
Under both valuation approaches each CGU had a FVLCD in excess of its carrying value.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 125 13.
Intangible assets arising on consolidation continued The key assumptions for the Income Approach are those regarding expected cash flows arising in future periods, regional growth rates and the discount rates.
Future projections are based on the most recent financial budgets considered by the Board which are used to project cash flows for the next seven years.
After this period a steady state cash flow is used to derive a terminal value for the CGU.
Annual growth rates of1.5% have been used for all CGUs with discount rates of 11% for EMEA, 12% for Americas and 13.5% for Asia Pacific.
The calculations have been subject to stress tests reflecting reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
All CGUs are insensitive to reasonably possible changes in these assumptions except for Americas and Asia Pacific.
Under this approach the recoverable amount for Americas exceeded its carrying value by 73m, which reduces to nil if annual growth rates fall to negative 0.4% over the projected period, or if the discount rate increases to13.8%.
The recoverable amount for Asia Pacific exceeded its carrying value by 98m, which reduces to nil if annual growth rates fall to negative 4.8% over the projected period, or if the discount rate increases to 19.8%.
The impact on future cash flows resulting from falling growth rates does not reflect any management actions that would be taken under such circumstances.
The Market Approach was based upon a price-earnings methodology using projected earnings for each unit.
Approximate price earnings multiples, validated against independent analyst information were applied to each CGU.
The multiples used for both 2018 and 2019 were inthe range 11.014.2 times earnings.
All CGUs are insensitive to reasonably possible changes in the assumptions used.
Other intangible assets Purchased Developed software software Total m m m Cost 1,2 At 1 January 2017 restated 19 99 118 Additions 26 26 Amounts derecognised 1 10 11 Effect of movements in exchange rates 3 3 At 31 December 2017 18 112 130 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2017 6 39 45 Charge for the year 5 24 29 Amounts derecognised 1 9 10 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 2 3 At 31 December 2017 9 52 61 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 9 60 69 Cost At 1 January 2016 9 50 59 Additions restated 5 9 14 1 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP restated 5 39 44 Amounts derecognised 3 2 5 Effect of movements in exchange rates 3 3 6 1,2 At 31 December 2016 restated 19 99 118 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2016 6 31 37 Charge for the year 2 6 8 Amounts derecognised 3 2 5 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 4 5 At 31 December 2016 6 39 45 Carrying amount 1,2 At 31 December 2016 restated 13 60 73 1 Restated to reflect the finalisation of the acquisition of ICAP Note 30 a.
2 Restated to reflect a reclassification between purchased and developed software.
com 126 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 15.
Property, plant and equipment Furniture, Land, fixtures, buildings and equipment leasehold and motor improvements vehicles Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 38 68 106 Additions 2 13 15 Disposals 1 5 6 Effect of movements in exchange rates 3 4 7 At 31 December 2017 36 72 108 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2017 19 51 70 Charge for the year 4 8 12 Disposals 1 5 6 Effect of movements in exchange rates 2 4 6 At 31 December 2017 20 50 70 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 16 22 38 Cost At 1 January 2016 28 56 84 Additions 1 2 3 Acquired with acquisitions 6 5 11 Disposals 2 2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 3 7 10 At 31 December 2016 38 68 106 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2016 15 42 57 Charge for the year 2 6 8 Disposals 2 2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 2 5 7 At 31 December 2016 19 51 70 Carrying amount At 31 December 2016 19 17 36 No assets are held under finance leases.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 127 16.
Investment in associates 2017 2016 m m restated At 1 January 52 6 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP restated 43 Additions 1 Share of profit for the year 9 4 Dividends received 8 2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 2 1 At 31 December 52 52 Summary financial information for associates Aggregated amounts for associates at the year end : Total assets restated 250 334 Total liabilities restated 92 170 Net assets restated 158 164 Proportion of Groups ownership interest 47 47 Goodwill 5 5 Carrying amount of Groups ownership interest 52 52 Aggregated amounts for associates during the year : Revenue 203 48 Profit for the year 28 13 Groups share of profit for the year 9 4 Dividends received from associates during the year 8 2 Interests in associates are measured using the equity method.
All associates are involved in broking activities and have either a 31 December or 31 March year end.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these Financial Statements based on financial information made up to 31 December each year.
No individual associate is material to the Group.
Country of incorporation Percentage and operation Associated undertakings held Bahrain ICAP Middle East W. L. L. 49% China Tullett Prebon SITICO China Limited 33% England Glia Ecosystems Limited 20% India Tullett Prebon India Limited formerly Prebon Yamane India Limited 48% 1 ICAP IL India Private Limited 40% 1 Japan Totan ICAP Co. Ltd 40% 1 Central Totan Securities Co. Ltd 20% Malaysia Amanah Butler Malaysia Sdn Bhd 32.1% Spain Corretaje e Informacion Monetaria y fide Divisas SA 21.5% 1 United States First Brokers Securities LLC 40% 1 31 March year end.
com 128 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 17.
Investment in joint ventures 2017 2016 m m restated At 1 January 28 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP restated 28 Share of result for the year 3 Dividends received 5 Effect of movements in exchange rates 2 At 31 December 24 28 Summary financial information for joint ventures Aggregated amounts for joint ventures at the year end : Total assets restated 17 21 Total liabilities restated 5 5 Net assets restated 12 16 Proportion of Groups ownership interest 5 8 Goodwill 19 20 Carrying amount of Groups ownership interest 24 28 Aggregated amounts for joint ventures during the year : Revenue 14 Result for the year 6 Groups share of result for the year 3 Dividends received from joint ventures during the year 5 Interests in joint ventures are measured using the equity method.
All joint ventures are involved in broking activities and have a 31 December year end.
No individual joint venture is material to the Group.
Country of incorporation Percentage and operation Joint ventures held Colombia SET-ICAP FX SA 47.9% SET-ICAP Securities S. A.
47.4% England tpSynrex Ltd 50% Mexico SIF ICAP, S. A. fide C. V. 50% TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 129 18.
Available-for-sale investments 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 23 8 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP 13 Disposals 3 Revaluation in the year recognised in other comprehensive income 1 1 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 At 31 December 19 23 Available-for-sale investments carried at fair value: unlisted 17 17 listed 2 3 Loans and receivables 3 19 23 The fair values of unlisted available-for-sale investments and loans and receivables are based on derived valuations as disclosed in Note 26 i.
Listed available-for-sale investments comprise equity securities that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures.
Fair values are based on their quoted market price Level 1 valuation.
Financial assets 2017 2016 m m Government securities 86 18 Term deposits 41 1 Restricted funds 12 71 139 90 Financial assets are liquid funds held on deposit with banks and clearing organisations.
Restricted funds comprise cash held with a central counterparty clearing house CCP, or a financial institution providing the Group with access to a CCP, and funds set aside for regulatory purposes.
The funds represent cash for which the Group does not have immediate and direct access or for which regulatory requirements restrict the use of the cash.
com 130 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 20.
Deferred tax 2017 2016 m m Deferred tax assets 2 27 Deferred tax liabilities 116 197 114 170 The movement for the year in the Groups net deferred tax position was as follows: 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 170 31 Credit charge to income for the year 32 1 Credit charge to other comprehensive income for the year 16 2 Recognised with acquisitions ICAP 137 Recognised with acquisitions other 2 Effect of movements in exchange rates 6 1 At 31 December 114 170 Deferred tax balances and movements thereon are analysed as: Recognised Effect of Recognised in other Recognised movements At in profit comprehensive with in exchange At 1 January or loss income acquisitions rates 31 December m m m m m m 2017 Share-based payment awards 2 2 Defined benefit pension scheme 33 3 16 20 Tax losses 2 2 Bonuses 19 3 16 Intangible assets arising on consolidation 160 34 7 119 Other timing differences 2 2 2 1 5 170 32 16 2 6 114 2016 Share-based payment awards 2 2 Defined benefit pension scheme 31 2 2 2 33 Bonuses 1 18 19 Intangible assets arising on consolidation 160 160 Other timing differences 1 1 2 31 1 2 137 1 170 At the balance sheet date, the Group has gross unrecognised temporary differences of 133m with the unrecognised net tax amount being 29m 2016: gross 135m and net tax 33m respectively.
This includes gross tax losses of 119m with the net tax amount being 27m 2016: gross 101m and net tax 23m respectively, which are potentially available for offset against future profits.
Of the unrecognised gross losses 83m 2016: 57m are expected to expire within 20 years and 36m 2016: 44m have no expiry.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items since it is not probable that future taxable profits will arise against which the temporary differences may be utilised.
A deferred tax asset of 2m 2016: nil in respect of tax losses has been recognised in 2017 as it was considered probable that future tax profits should arise.
In 2016 a deferred tax liability of 160m was recognised in relation to the intangible assets of 636m that arose on the acquisition of ICAP Note 30 a.
The tax rate applied reflects the regional allocation of these assets.
This deferred tax liability has reduced by 24m duetothe reduction in the US federal rate of tax, with the rest of the reduction relating to amortisation of the intangible assets.
No deferred tax has been recognised on temporary differences associated with unremitted earnings of subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of distributions and overseas dividends are largely exempt from UK tax.
As at the balance sheet date, the Group had unrecognised deferred tax liabilities of 2m 2016: 2m in respect of unremitted profits of subsidiaries of 23m 2016: 23m.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 131 21.
Trade and other receivables 2016 2017 m m restated Non-current receivables Other debtors 19 18 Current receivables Trade receivables restated 258 248 Settlement balances 33,640 22,170 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 681 575 Financial assets at FVTPL 12 92 Financial assets restated 34,591 23,085 Other debtors 13 15 Prepayments 71 48 Accrued income 9 6 Corporation tax 2 Owed by associates and joint ventures 4 4 34,690 23,158 1 Restated to reflect the finalisation of the acquisition of ICAP Note 30 a.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables which are not held at fair value through profit or loss approximate to their fairvalues.
As at 31 December 2017 trade receivables that were past due but not impaired were as follows: 2016 2017 m m restated Less than 30 days restated 130 139 Between 30 and 90 days 71 68 Over 90 days 57 41 Trade receivables 258 248 1 Restated to reflect the finalisation of the acquisition of ICAP Note 30 a.
Trade receivables are shown net of a provision of 6m 2016: 3m against certain trade receivables due after 90 days.
As at 31 December 2017 settlement balances that were due and those that were past due but not impaired were as follows: 2017 2016 m m Amounts not yet due 33,348 21,580 Amounts past due 292 590 Settlement balances 33,640 22,170 Settlement balances arise on Matched Principal brokerage whereby securities are bought from one counterparty and simultaneously sold to another counterparty.
The above analysis reflects only the receivable side of such transactions.
Corresponding payable amounts are shown in Note 22 Trade and other payables.
Deposits paid for securities borrowed arise on collateralised stock lending transactions.
Such trades are complete only when both the collateral and stock for each side of the transaction are returned.
The above analysis reflects the receivable side of such transactions.
Corresponding deposits received for securities loaned are shown in Note 22 Trade and other payables.
Financial assets at FVTPL arise on simultaneous back-to-back derivative transactions with counterparties.
The above analysis reflects only the asset side ofsuch transactions.
Corresponding liability amounts are shown in Note 22 Trade and other payables.
com 132 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 22.
Trade and other payables 2016 2017 m m restated Trade payables 14 16 Settlement balances 33,622 22,149 Deposits received for securities loaned 687 586 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 12 93 Financial liabilities 34,335 22,844 Tax and social security 34 29 Other creditors restated 15 25 Accruals restated 281 318 Deferred income 2 11 Deferred consideration Note 30 d 12 12 Owed to associates and joint ventures restated 2 3 34,681 23,242 1 Restated to reflect the finalisation of the acquisition of ICAP Note 30 a.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables which are not held at fair value through profit or loss approximate to their fairvalues.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Less than Greater than one year one year Total m m m 2017 Sterling Notes June 2019 80 80 Sterling Notes January 2024 12 497 509 12 577 589 2016 Bank loan due December 2017 467 467 Sterling Notes June 2019 80 80 467 80 547 All amounts are denominated in Sterling and are stated after unamortised transaction costs.
An analysis of borrowings by maturity has been disclosed inNote 26 f. Sterling Notes: Due June 2019 In December 2012 80m Sterling Notes, due June 2019, were issued.
The Notes have a coupon of 5.25% paid semi-annually.
At 31 December 2017 their fair value Level 1 was 84m 2016: 84m.
Sterling Notes: Due January 2024 In January 2017 the Group issued 500m unsecured Sterling Notes due January 2024.
The Notes have a fixed coupon of 5.25% paid semi-annually, subject to compliance with the terms of the Notes.
Proceeds were used to repay the 470m bank loan.
At 31 December 2017 their fair value Level 1 was 533m.
Accrued interest at 31 December 2017 amounted to 12m.
Bank loan: Due December 2017 On the completion of the ICAP acquisition the Group drew on its 470m committed bridge financing facility.
The proceeds were used to repay 140m outstanding on the Groups bank credit facility and 330m to repay a loan acquired with the ICAP acquisition.
Facility fees of 3m were incurred in 2016.
The carrying amount of the bank loan approximated to its fairvalue.
Bank credit facility The Group has a 250m committed revolving credit facility, the maturity of which has been extended by a year to April 2019.
During 2016, 140m was drawn to repay the Groups Sterling Notes that matured in July 2016.
The amount drawn was repaid from the proceeds of the bank loan.
The facility was undrawn at the end of the year.
Facility fees of 1% are payable on the undrawn balance.
Arrangement fees are amortised over the maturity of the facility.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 133 24.
Provisions Legal Property Restructuring and other Total m m m m 2017 At 1 January 2017 restated 9 5 29 43 Released charge to income statement 2 32 1 31 Utilisation of provision 2 10 1 13 Effect of movements in exchange rates At 31 December 2017 5 27 29 61 2016 At 1 January 2016 6 21 2 29 Charge to income statement 1 3 2 6 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP restated 1 2 26 29 Utilisation of provision 22 1 23 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 1 2 At 31 December 2016 restated 9 5 29 43 2017 2016 m m restated Included in current liabilities 42 21 Included in non-current liabilities 19 22 61 43 1 Restated to reflect the finalisation of the acquisition of ICAP Note 30 a.
Property provisions outstanding as at 31 December 2017 relate to provisions in respect of onerous leases and building dilapidations.
Theonerous lease provision represents the net present value of the future rental cost net of expected sub-lease income.
These leases expireinone to nine years 2016: one to ten years.
The building dilapidations provision represents the estimated cost of making good dilapidations and disrepair on various leasehold buildings.
The leases expire in one to five years.
Restructuring provisions outstanding as at 31 December 2017 relate to termination and other employee related costs.
The increase during theyear reflects the actions taken under the Groups cost improvement programme and from the integration of ICAP.
It is expected that theseobligations will be discharged during 2018.
Legal and other provisions include provisions for legal claims brought against subsidiaries of the Group together with provisions against obligations for certain long-term employee benefits and non-property related onerous contracts.
At present the timing and amount of any payments are uncertain and provisions are subject toregular review.
It is expected that the obligations will be discharged over the next 25 years.
In February 2015 the European Commission imposed a fine of 13m 15m on ICAP Europe Limited IEL for alleged competition violations in relation to the involvement of certain of IELs brokers in the attempted manipulation of Yen LIBOR by bank traders between October 2006 and January 2011.
While this matter relates to alleged conduct violations prior to completion of the Companys acquisition ofICAP, the Company notes that the fine imposed by the European Commission has been appealed, seeking a full annulment of the Commissions decision.
This is recognised as a provision of 13m as at 31 December 2017.
In the event that the Commission imposes a fine inexcess of 15m such excess will be borne by NEX Group plc NEX.
In November 2017, the European General Court granted a partial annulment of the Commissions findings.
The Commission appealed this decision in February 2018 and IEL will serve its reply during April 2018. www.
com 134 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 25.
Other long term payables 2017 2016 m m Accruals and deferred income 24 12 Deferred consideration Note 30 d 19 9 43 21 Accruals and deferred income includes deferred leasehold rental accruals that build up during rent free periods which are subsequently utilised over the rental payment period of the lease.
Financial instruments a Financial and liquidity risk The Group does not take trading risk and does not hold proprietary trading positions.
Consequently, the Group is exposed to trading book market risk only in relation to incidental positions in financial instruments arising as a result of the Groups failure to match clients orders precisely.
The Group has limited exposure to non-trading book market risk, specifically to interest rate risk and currency risk.
Thus the overall approach to the planning and management of the Groups capital and liquidity is to ensure the Groups solvency, i. e. its continued ability to conduct business, deliver returns to shareholders, and support growth and strategic initiatives.
This risk profile meets the necessary conditions for an investment firm consolidation waiver and the Group benefits from a waiver under the CRD IV provisions, the details of which are set out in the Regulatory Capital section of the Strategic report on page 35.
The Group seeks to ensure that it has access to an appropriate level of cash, other forms of marketable securities and liquidity facilities to enable it to finance its ongoing operations on cost effective terms.
Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with the primary objective of capital security and availability, with a secondary objective of generating returns.
Funding requirements are monitored by the Groups Finance and Treasury functions.
As a normal part of its operations, the Group faces liquidity risk through the risk of being required to fund transactions that fail to settle on the due date.
From a risk perspective, the most problematic scenario concerns fail to deliver transactions, where the business has received a security from the selling counterparty and has paid cash in settlement of the same but is unable to effect onward delivery of the security to the buying counterparty.
Such settlement fails give rise to a funding requirement, reflecting the value of the security which the Group has failed to deliver until such time as the delivery leg is finally settled and the business has received the associated cash.
The Group has addressed this funding risk by arranging overdraft facilities to cover failed to deliver trades, either with the relevant settlement agent depository or with a clearing bank.
Under such arrangements, the facility provider will fund the value of any failed to deliver trades until delivery of the security is effected.
Certain facility providers require collateral such as a cash deposit or parent company guarantee to protect them from any adverse mark-to-market movement and some also charge a funding fee for providing the facility.
The Group is also exposed to potential margin calls from clearing houses and correspondent clearers, in both the UK and the United States.
In the event of a liquidity issue arising, the firm has recourse to existing global cash resources, after which it could draw down on its 250m committed revolving credit facility as additional contingency funding.
b Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a capital base and funding structure that maintains creditor, regulator and market confidence and provides flexibility for business development whilst also optimising returns to shareholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, as set out in Note 23, cash and cash equivalents, other current financial assets and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings asdisclosed in Notes 27 and 28.
The Group has an investment firm consolidation waiver under which it is required to monitor its compliance with a Financial Holding Company test which takes into account the Companys shareholders funds and the aggregated credit risk, market risk and fixed overhead requirements of the Companys subsidiaries.
A number of the Companys subsidiaries are individually regulated and are required to maintain capital that is appropriate to the risks entailed in their businesses according to definitions that vary according to each jurisdiction.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 135 26.
Financial instruments continued c Categorisation of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets AvailableFinancial forLoans and assets at sale assets receivables FVTPL Total m m m m 2017 Available-for-sale investments 19 19 Financial assets 86 53 139 Trade receivables 258 258 Settlement balances 33,640 33,640 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 681 681 Financial assets at FVTPL 12 12 Cash and cash equivalents 622 622 105 35,254 12 35,371 2016 Available-for-sale investments 20 3 23 Financial assets 18 72 90 Trade receivables restated 248 248 Settlement balances 22,170 22,170 Deposits paid for securities borrowed 575 575 Financial assets at FVTPL 92 92 Cash and cash equivalents 696 696 38 23,764 92 23,894 1 Restated to reflect the finalisation of the acquisition of ICAP Note 30 a.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are all held at amortised cost.
Financial Amortised liabilities cost at FVTPL Total m m m 2017 Sterling Notes June 2019 80 80 Sterling Notes January 2024 509 509 Trade payables 14 14 Settlement balances 33,622 33,622 Deposits received for securities loaned 687 687 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 12 12 34,912 12 34,924 2016 Bank loan due December 2017 467 467 Sterling Notes June 2019 80 80 Trade payables 16 16 Settlement balances 22,149 22,149 Deposits received for securities loaned 586 586 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 93 93 23,298 93 23,391 www.
com 136 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 26.
Financial instruments continued d Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include simultaneous back-to-back derivative transactions with counterparties which are reported as separate financial assets and financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
These transactions are subject to ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association Master Netting Agreements which provide a legally enforceable right of offset on the occurrence of a specified event of default, or other events not expected to happen in the normal course of business, but are not otherwise enforceable.
Financial Financial Financial instruments subject to enforceable Master Netting Agreements assets liabilities and similar arrangements m m 2017 Financial instruments at FVTPL 12 12 Related amounts not offset in the statement of financial position 12 12 Net position 2016 Financial instruments at FVTPL 92 92 Related amounts not offset in the statement of financial position 92 92 Net position As at 31 December 2016, 1m of financial liabilities held at FVTPL were not subject to offsetting arrangements.
e Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties in respect of its Name Passing, Matched Principal, Executing Broker and corporate treasury operations.
The Group does not bear any significant concentration risk to either counterparts ormarkets.
The credit risk in respect of the Name Passing business and the information sales and risk management services is limited to the collection ofoutstanding commission and transaction fees and this is managed proactively by the Groups accounts receivable functions.
As at the yearend, a substantial majority of the Groups counterparty exposure is to investment grade counterparts rated BBBBaa3 or above.
The Matched Principal business involves the Group acting as a counterparty on trades which are undertaken on a delivery versus payment basis.
The Group manages its credit risk in these transactions through appropriate policies and procedures in order to mitigate this risk including stringent on-boarding requirements, setting appropriate credit limits for all counterparts which are closely monitored by the regional credit risk teams to restrict any potential loss through counterparty default.
Settlement of these transactions takes place according to the relevant market rules and conventions and the credit risk isconsidered to be minimal.
As at the year end, a substantial majority of the Groups counterparty exposure is to investment grade counterparts.
The credit risk on cash, cash equivalents, financial assets and financial assets at FVTPL are subject to frequent monitoring.
All financial institutions that are transacted with are approved and internal limits are assigned to each one based on a combination of factors including external credit ratings.
As at the year end, a significant proportion of cash and cash equivalents is deposited with investment grade rated financial institutions.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 137 26.
Financial instruments continued f Maturity profile of financial liabilities The table below reflects the contractual maturities, including future interest obligations, of the Groups financial liabilities as at 31 December: Due between Due 3 months between Due Due within and 1 year and after 3 months 12 months 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m 2017 Settlement balances 33,622 33,622 Deposits received for securities loaned 687 687 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 6 6 12 Trade payables 14 14 Sterling Notes January 2024 13 13 105 539 670 Sterling Notes June 2019 4 82 86 33,655 710 187 539 35,091 2016 Settlement balances 22,149 22,149 Deposits received for securities loaned 45 541 586 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 56 37 93 Trade payables 14 2 16 Bank loan due December 2017 472 472 Sterling Notes June 2019 4 86 90 22,736 584 86 23,406 g Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the profit for the year with regard to currency movements on financial assets and liabilities denominated inforeign currencies as at the year end.
The sensitivity of the Groups equity with regard to its net foreign currency investments at the year end excluding ICAP for 2016 is also shown below.
Based on a 10% weakening in the US dollar and Euro exchange rates against Sterling, the effects would be as follows: 2017 2016 USD m EUR m USD m EUR m Change in foreign currency financial assets and liabilities profit or loss 5 3 3 1 Change in translation of foreign operations equity 79 3 31 1 The Group would experience equal and opposite foreign exchange movements should the US dollar and Euro exchange rates strengthen against Sterling.
h Interest rate sensitivity analysis Interest on floating rate financial instruments is reset at intervals of less than one year.
The Groups exposure to interest rates arises on cash and cash equivalents and money market instruments.
The Sterling Notes are fixed rate financial instruments.
A 100 basis point change in interest rates, applied to average floating rate financial instrument assets and liabilities during the year, would result in the following impact on profit or loss: 2017 2016 100pts -100pts 100pts -100pts m m m m Income expense arising on: floating rate assets 7 7 4 4 floating rate liabilities 1 Net income expense for the year 7 7 3 4 www.
com 138 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 26.
Financial instruments continued i Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset orliability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observablemarket data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m 2017 Available-for-sale investments: unlisted 8 9 17 listed 2 2 Financial assets: government securities 86 86 financial assets at FVTPL 12 12 Financial liabilities: financial liabilities at FVTPL 12 12 88 8 9 105 2016 Available-for-sale investments: unlisted 8 9 17 listed 3 3 Loans and receivables 3 3 Financial assets: government securities 18 18 financial assets at FVTPL 92 92 Financial liabilities: financial liabilities at FVTPL 93 93 21 7 12 40 In deriving the fair value of financial instruments at FVTPL valuation models were used which incorporated observable market data.
There were no significant inputs used in the models that were unobservable.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the year.
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets: 2017 2016 m m Balance as at 1 January 12 8 Acquired with acquisitions ICAP 8 Disposals 3 Transfers to level 2 4 Impairments 1 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 Balance as at 31 December 9 12 There were no financial liabilities subsequently remeasured at fair value on a Level 3 fair value measurement basis.
Transfers to level 2 reflect the availability of additional observable price information.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 139 27.
Reconciliation of shareholders funds a Share capital, Share premium account, Merger reserve Share Share premium Merger capital account reserve Total m m m m 2017 As at 1 January and 31 December 2017 139 17 1,378 1,534 2016 As at 1 January 2016 61 17 179 257 Issue of ordinary shares 78 1,206 1,284 Share issue costs 7 7 As at 31 December 2016 139 17 1,378 1,534 Share capital Merger reserve On 30 December 2016 the Group issued 310,314,296 ordinary shares with a fair value of 1,283m to acquire the issued share capital of ICAP Global Broking Holdings ICAP.
The 1,206m difference between the nominal value of the shares issued and their fair value has been credited to the merger reserve in 2016.
The costs associated with this share issue have been charged against the reserve.
As at 1 January 2016 the merger reserve related to prior share-based acquisitions andrepresented the difference between the value of those acquisitions and the amount required to be recorded in share capital.
b Other reserves Reverse Hedging acquisition Revaluation and Own Other reserve reserve translation shares reserves m m m m m 2017 As at 1 January 2017 1,182 2 75 6 1,111 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 1 1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 92 92 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income Total comprehensive loss income 1 92 93 Own shares acquired for employee trusts 4 4 As at 31 December 2017 1,182 1 17 10 1,208 2016 As at 1 January 2016 1,182 1 16 1,165 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 1 1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 59 59 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 1 59 60 Own shares acquired for employee trusts 6 6 As at 31 December 2016 1,182 2 75 6 1,111 www.
com 140 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 28.
Reconciliation of shareholders funds continued b Other reserves continued Reverse acquisition reserve The acquisition of Collins Stewart Tullett plc by Tullett Prebon plc in 2006 was accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
Under IFRS the consolidated accounts ofTullett Prebon plc are prepared as if they were a continuation of the consolidated accounts of Collins Stewart Tullettplc.
The reverse acquisition reserve represents the difference between the initial equity share capital of Tullett Prebon plc and the sharecapital and share premium of Collins Stewart Tullett plc atthe time of the acquisition.
This resulted in the consolidated net assets beforeand after the acquisition remaining unchanged.
Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve represents the remeasurement of assets in accordance with IFRS that have been recorded in other comprehensive income.
Hedging and translation The hedging and translation reserve records revaluation gains and losses arising on net investment hedges and the effect of changes in exchange rates ontranslation of foreign operations recorded in other comprehensive income.
As at 31 December 2017, 10m relates to amounts arising on previous net investment hedges 2016: 10m.
Own shares As at 31 December 2017, the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 held 2,668,144 ordinary shares 2016: 1,927,575 ordinary shares with a fair value of14m 2016: 8m.
During the year the Trust purchased 740,569 ordinary shares in the open market at a cost of 4m.
c Total equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent NonTotal from Total from Retained controlling Total Note 28 a Note 28 b earnings Total interests equity m m m m m m 2017 As at 1 January 2017 1,534 1,111 1,475 1,898 21 1,919 Profit for the year 87 87 87 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 1 1 1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 92 92 1 93 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 45 45 45 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income 16 16 16 Total comprehensive loss income 93 58 35 1 36 Dividends paid 58 58 1 59 Own shares acquired for employee trusts 4 4 4 Equity repayment to non-controlling interests 6 6 Credit arising on share-based payment awards Note 29 19 19 19 As at 31 December 2017 1,534 1,208 1,494 1,820 13 1,833 2016 As at 1 January 2016 257 1,165 1,448 540 2 542 Profit for the year 43 43 1 44 Revaluation of available-for-sale investments 1 1 1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 59 59 59 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes 6 6 6 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income 2 2 2 Total comprehensive income 60 47 107 1 108 Dividends paid 41 41 1 42 Own shares acquired for employee trusts 6 6 6 Issue of ordinary shares 1,284 1,284 1,284 Share issue costs 7 7 7 Non-controlling interests arising on acquisitions 19 19 Credit arising on share-based payment awards Note 29 21 21 21 As at 31 December 2016 1,534 1,111 1,475 1,898 21 1,919 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 141 29.
Share-based payments Share option awards During 2016, share options over 302,148 shares, awarded under the Groups equity-based long term incentive plan, the Tullett Prebon LongTerm Incentive Plan, were exercised.
No further awards remain outstanding.
Senior Manager Deferred Bonus Plan Annual awards are made under the Groups Senior Manager Deferred Bonus Plan that commenced in 2015.
Under this Plan, employees identified as Senior Managers have 20% of their annual discretionary bonus awarded in deferred shares.
Theseawards will be settled with TP ICAP plc shares and are subject to the completion of service conditions and the fulfilment of other conduct requirements.
The number of shares in respect of a bonus year is determined after the close period for that year at the then market price, and vest over three years from the grant.
The fair value of the shares equates to the monetary value of the awards at grant date and includes the value of expected dividends that will accrue to the beneficiaries.
As part of the introduction of the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2015, a Special Award was granted to eligible employees.
The Special Award will vest in May 2018.
Awards will be settled by the Tullett Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 from shares purchased by it in the open market.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,780,285 Granted during the year 740,570 1,783,888 Expired during the year 3,603 Settled during the year Outstanding at the end of the year 2,520,855 1,780,285 At the year end closing share price of 532p the estimated total number of deferred shares for the 2017 bonus year was 1,093,936.
Executive Director Deferred Bonus Plan Annual awards are made under the Groups Executive Director Deferred Bonus Plan that commenced in 2017.
The Groups Executive Directors have 50% of their annual discretionary bonus awarded in deferred shares.
These awards are subject to the completion of service conditions and the fulfilment of other conduct requirements and will be settled with TP ICAP plc shares.
The number ofshares in respect of a bonus year is determined after the close period for that year at the market price, and vest three years from the date of the grant.
The fair value of the shares equates to the monetary value of the awards at grant date and includes the value of expected dividends that willaccrue to the beneficiaries.
At the year end closing share price of 532p the estimated total number of deferred shares for the 2017 bonus year was 165,414.
Transformational Long Term Incentive Plan The Transformational Long Term Incentive Plan commenced in 2017 as a one-off long-term plan aligned to the three-year integration period for Tullett Prebon and ICAP January 2017 December 2019.
Awards are allocated between the Executive Directors and members of the Groups Global Executive Committee.
At the end of the performance period, the LTIP pool will be determined, based on absolute TSR and EPS performance, and converted into awards of shares.
Shares will be subject to a holding period and will be released one third in April 2021, one third in April 2022 and one third in April 2023.
During the holding period, the shares cannot be sold other than to cover the cost of any applicable taxes.
Awards will be settled by the issue of new shares.
Acquisition related share-based payments As part of the acquisition of PVM, certain former shareholders are eligible to receive additional payments after three years service provided they remain as employees and PVM achieves revenue performance targets over that period.
The Group has the sole right to issue equity orcash to satisfy these additional payments, which, although deferred consideration in substance, are conditional on future employment.
InNovember 2017 the service term and revenue performance targets were fulfilled.
The amount due is US$51m 38m which has been recognised as a share-based expense, through the income statement and equity, over the three year service term.
The obligation will be settled in early 2018. www.
com 142 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 29.
Share-based payments continued 2017 2016 m m Charge arising from the Senior Manager Deferred Bonus Plan 4 4 Charge arising from the Executive Director Deferred Bonus Plan 1 Charge arising from the Transformational Long Term Incentive Plan 5 Charge arising from acquisition related share-based payments 9 17 19 21 30.
Acquisitions a Acquisition of ICAP On 30 December 2016, the Group issued 310.3m ordinary shares to acquire 100% of the share capital of ICAP Global Broking Holdings Limited ICAP.
The fair value of the shares issued was 1,283m, representing their market value at the date of issue.
No further consideration is payable in respect of the acquisition.
The provisional fair values of ICAPs assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition were finalised as follows: Provisional Final Fair value Amendments Fair value m m m Net assets acquired Intangible assets relating to purchased and developed software 41 3 44 Property, plant and equipment 11 11 Investment in associates 45 2 43 Investment in joint ventures 8 20 28 Available-for-sale investments 13 13 Deferred tax assets 23 23 Trade and other receivables 13,670 2 13,668 Financial assets 67 67 Cash and cash equivalents 316 316 Total assets 14,194 19 14,213 Trade and other payables 13,686 4 13,690 Loans and borrowings 330 330 Current tax liabilities 25 1 24 Provisions 14 15 29 Retirement benefit obligations 3 3 Total liabilities 14,058 18 14,076 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 136 1 137 Non-controlling interests 19 Intangible assets arising on consolidation Other intangible assets 636 Deferred tax liabilities arising on other intangible assets 160 Goodwill 689 Fair value of total consideration 1,283 Satisfied by: Issue of ordinary shares 1,283 Note: Due the size and complexity of the acquisition and its proximity to the 2016 year end the initial accounting for the acquisition was provisional at 31 December 2016.
Theprincipal adjustments on finalising fair values were: a the identification of developed software and the finalisation the fair value resulted in a 3m increase.
b t he finalisation of the fair values attributable to investments in associates and joint ventures resulted in a 2m reduction in associates and an increase of 20m injointventures.
c the fair value of trade and other receivables reduced by 2m.
d the finalisation of the review of trade and other payables, and tax obligations resulted in the identification of 3m of additional liabilities.
e the review of long-term employee related obligations resulted in provisions of 13m, together with other provisions of 2m.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 143 30.
Acquisitions continued a Acquisition of ICAP continued Intangible assets arising on consolidation, have been allocated to: the ICAP brand, 27m: the value of customer relationships, 598m: andother intangibles having finite lives, 11m.
An associated deferred tax liability of 160m was recognised on acquisition, based on the regional allocation of these assets and applicable tax rates, none of which has been offset against the Groups deferred tax assets.
The balance of 689m has been recognised as goodwill, representing the value of the established workforce and the businesss reputation.
The fair value of the brand has been estimated using a relief-from-royalty approach, based on empirical, market derived rates for such assets, and is sensitive to changes in the royalty rate applied.
The fair value of customer relationships has been estimated using the multi-period excess earnings methodology which uses the net present value of forecast, post-tax profits generated by that asset.
The fair value of customer relationships is sensitive to changes in: forecast post-tax profits: the discount rate applied: the assumed useful life of the assets: the expected rate of customer attrition: and the level of contributory asset charges for the use of other assets, including a charge for the workforce.
Indemnification assets of 16m, receivable from NEX, have been recognised on acquisition and are included with trade and other receivables.
The fair value of these assets reflect the fair value of the provisions against which the indemnification has been received.
No contingent liabilities have been recognised at fair value as such liabilities cannot be reliably measured.
Should such contingent liabilities crystallise, afurther indemnification asset would be recognised to the extent covered by the relevant indemnity.
Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes and no associated deferred tax asset has been recorded.
ICAP was not reflected in the Groups results for 2016.
Had ICAP been acquired on 1 January 2016 revenue would have been 795m higher, underlying operating profit 108m higher and underlying earnings 85m higher.
If the 310.3m ordinary shares issued to acquire ICAP had been issued on 1 January 2016 the basic weighted average shares Note 11 would have been 552.6m, resulting in an underlying basic EPS 8.5p lower at 34.0p.
Acquisition costs, included in administrative expenses, amounted to 17m in 2016 and 12m in 2015.
7m of costs attributable to the issue of the ordinary shares have been expensed directly to equity.
b Acquisition of Coex Partners Limited In November 2017, the Group announced the acquisition of Coex Partners Limited and its subsidiaries COEX.
Initial cash consideration was 4m and deferred contingent consideration is payable through to the third anniversary of completion.
The amount of deferred contingent consideration is dependent upon the performance of the business over the three year period and has a fair value estimated to be 16m.
Determining the fair value of deferred consideration requires an estimation of future profitability over the three year period which has beenbased on historical and forecast outcomes.
A 10% increase in revenue would result in a 1m increase in deferred consideration.
The actual outcome may differ from this estimate.
The initial accounting for the acquisition is provisional due to the proximity to the year end.
Provisional fair values of the net liabilities acquired were 3m.
Intangible assets relating to customer relationships have been provisionally recognised at 3m together with 1m of associated deferred tax liabilities.
Goodwill, representing the value of the established workforce andthe businesss reputation, amounted to 21m.
Had Coex been acquired on 1 January 2017 underlying operating profit would have been 3m higher and underlying earnings 2m higher.
Acquisition costs, included in administrative expenses, amounted to less than 1m in 2017. c Acquisition of SCS Commodities Corp In January 2018, the Group announced the acquisition of SCS Commodities Corp SCS.
Initial cash consideration was US$8m 6m and deferred contingent consideration is payable through to the third anniversary of completion.
The amount of deferred contingent consideration isdependent upon the performance of the business over the three year period and has a fair value estimated to be $4m 3m.
The estimated fairvalue of the net assets acquired were US$ 1m 1m.
Intangible assets, relating to customer relationships, are estimated to be $1m 1m with provisional goodwill, representing the value of the established workforce and the businesss reputation, amounting to US$10m 7m.
Acquisition costs, included in administrative expenses, amounted to less than 1m in 2017. www.
com 144 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 30.
Acquisitions continued d Analysis of deferred and contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions Certain acquisitions made by the Group are satisfied in part by deferred or contingent deferred consideration.
The Group has re-estimated the amounts due where necessary, with any corresponding adjustments being made to profit or loss.
2017 2016 m m At 1 January 21 16 Acquisitions during the year 16 3 Remeasurement credit charge taken to operating profit 1 2 Cash paid 4 3 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 3 At 31 December 31 21 Amounts falling due within one year 12 12 Amounts falling due after one year 19 9 At 31 December 31 21 31.
Reconciliation of operating result to net cash from operating activities 2017 2016 m m Operating profit 102 73 Adjustments for: Share-based compensation expense 10 4 Pension schemes administration costs 1 1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 8 Amortisation of intangible assets 29 8 Pension scheme settlement gains 4 Acquisition related share-based payment charge 9 17 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation 40 2 Loss on derecognition of intangible assets 1 Remeasurement of deferred consideration 1 2 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investments 1 Non-cash movement in FVTPL balances 1 1 Increase decrease in provisions for liabilities 18 17 Increase decrease in non-current liabilities 11 1 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 230 94 Increase in trade and other receivables 48 18 Increase in net settlement and trading balances 6 2 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 40 23 Cash generated from operations 136 97 Income taxes paid 27 17 Interest paid 22 21 Net cash from operating activities 87 59 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 145 32.
Analysis of net funds Acquired Exchange At Non-cash with rate At 1 January Cash flow items acquisitions movements 31 December m m m m m m 2017 Cash 657 21 27 609 Cash equivalents 41 27 1 13 Overdrafts 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 696 46 28 622 Financial assets 90 54 5 139 Total funds 786 8 33 761 Bank loan due within one year 467 470 3 Notes due within one year 12 12 Notes due after one year 80 497 577 Total debt 547 27 15 589 Total net funds 239 19 15 33 172 2016 Cash 297 337 23 657 Cash equivalents 62 26 5 41 Overdrafts 2 2 Cash and cash equivalents 359 309 28 696 Financial assets 20 3 67 6 90 Total funds 379 306 67 34 786 Bank loan due within one year 466 1 467 Notes due within one year 141 141 Notes due after one year 79 1 80 Total debt 220 325 2 547 Total net funds 159 19 2 67 34 239 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months orless.
As at 31December 2017 cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts, amounted to 622m 2016: 696m.
Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and threemonths depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short term deposit rates.
Financial assets comprise short term government securities, term deposits and restricted funds held with banks and clearing organisations.
Non-cash items represent accrued interest and the amortisation of debt issue costs.
com 146 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 33.
Contingent liabilities FCA investigation Tullett Prebon Europe Limited TPEL is currently under investigation by the FCA in relation to certain trades undertaken between 2008 and 2011, including trades which are risk free, which are alleged to have no commercial rationale or economic purpose, on which brokerage is paid, and trades on which brokerage may have been improperly charged.
As part of its investigation, the FCA is considering the extent to which during the relevant period i TPELs systems and controls were adequate to manage the risks associated with such trades and ii whether certain of TPELs managers were aware of, and or managed appropriately the risks associated with, the trades.
The FCA is also reviewing the circumstances surrounding a failure in 2011 by TPEL to discover certain audio files and produce them to the FCA in a timely manner.
As the investigation is ongoing, it is not possible to predict its ultimate outcome and accordingly any potential liability and or financial impact cannot currently be reliably estimated.
In connection with the investigation, the Group has commenced its own review of theGroups previous systems and controls around gifts and hospitality.
Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate case On 16 August 2016, a litigation was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York naming the Company, ICAP plc, ICAP Australia Pty LTD and Tullett Prebon Australia Pty.
Limited as defendants together with various Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate BBSW setting banks.
The complaint alleges collusion by the defendants to fix BBSW-based derivatives prices through manipulative trading during the fixing window and false BBSW rate submissions.
Each of the defendants named above intend to defend the litigation vigorously.
It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the litigation or to provide an estimate of any potential financial impact.
Labour claims ICAP Brazil ICAP do Brasil Corretora fide Ttulos e Varoles Mobilirios Ltda ICAP Brazil is a defendant in 19 pending lawsuits filed in the Brazilian Labour Court by persons formerly associated with ICAP Brazil seeking damages under various statutory labour rights accorded to employees and in relation to various other claims including wrongful termination, breach of contract and harassment together the Labour claims.
TheGroup estimates the maximum potential aggregate exposure in relation to the Labour claims, including any potential social security tax liability, to be BRL 57m 13m.
The Group is covered by an indemnity from NEX in relation to any outflow in respect of materially all of these Labour claims in so far as they relate to periods prior to completion of the Groups acquisition of ICAP.
Flow case Tullett Prebon Brazil In December 2012, Flow Participaes Ltda.
and Brasil Plural Corretora fide Cmbio, Ttulos e Valores Flow initiated a lawsuit against Tullett Prebon Brasil S. A. Corretora fide Valores e Cmbio and Tullett Prebon Holdings do Brasil Ltda alleging that the defendants have committed a series of unfair competition misconducts, such as the recruitment of Flows former employees, the illegal obtainment and use of systems and software developed by the plaintiffs, as well as the transfer of technology and confidential information from Flow and the collusion to do so in order to increase profits from economic activities.
The amount currently claimed is BRL 196m 44m.
The Group intends to vigorously defend itself but there is no certainty as to the outcome of these claims.
The case is currently in an early evidentiary phase and it is stayed pending discussion before the Superior Court of Justice regarding the production of evidence.
Therefore, the case is not anticipated to be resolved in 2018.
ISDA Fix The CFTC and other government agencies have requested information from the NEX Group in relation to the setting of the US dollar segment of a benchmark known as ISDA Fix.
ICAP plcs successor firm, NEX, continues to co-operate with the agencies inquiries into the setting of thatrate.
ICAP Capital Markets LLC ICM was the collection agent for ISDA Fix panel bank submissions in US dollars, but was not a panel member itself.
It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the CFTC investigation or to provide an estimate of any potential financial impact.
In September and October 2014, five class actions were filed alleging injury due to purported manipulation of the USD ISDA Fix rate.
ICM is a defendant in those actions, which have now been consolidated into a single action, along with several ISDA Fix panel banks.
Pursuant to the terms of the sale and purchase agreement between the Company and NEX it was agreed that ICM would transfer its activities and business to the Company but that ICM would not be transferred to the Companys ownership at completion.
It was further agreed that in the event of any claims or losses arising in relation to ISDA Fix, these would be for the account of NEX.
It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the litigation or the CFTCs enquiries or to provide an estimate of any potential financial impact.
The Company and its Group may nevertheless suffer financial loss either directly or as a consequence of damage to its reputation as a result of these matters.
Swaps civil litigation In December 2016, ICAP SEF US LLC and ICAP Global Derivatives Limited were named in a class action alleging that they and certain dealer banks colluded to prevent buy-side customers from accessing all-to-all anonymous electronic trading platforms and therefore prevented buy-side customers from getting access to the best interest rate swap prices.
The actions generally asserted claims of violation ofantitrust laws and unjust enrichment.
Each of ICAP SEF US LLC and ICAP Global Derivatives Limited intend to defend these litigation claims vigorously.
The Company expects that it will benefit from the warranty provisions of the sale and purchase agreement with NEX such that anyoutflow in respect of the ICAP entities with regard to this litigation will be borne by NEX.
In July 2017, the Court dismissed the claims against ICAP SEF US LLC and ICAP Global Derivatives Limited.
No subsidiary of the Group is therefore currently named as a defendant inrelation to this class action.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 147 33.
Contingent liabilities continued LIBOR Class actions The Group is currently defending two LIBOR related actions.
i Stichting LIBOR Class Action On 15 December 2017, the Stichting Elco Foundation, a Netherlands-based claim foundation, filed a writ initiating litigation in the Dutch court in Amsterdam on behalf of institutional investors against ICAP Europe Limited IEL, ICAP plc, Cooperative Rabobank U.
A. UBS AG, UBS Securities Japan Co. Ltd, Lloyds Banking Group plc, and Lloyds Bank plc.
The litigation alleges manipulation by the defendants of theJPY LIBOR, GBP LIBOR, CHF LIBOR, USD LIBOR, EURIBOR, TIBOR, SOR, BBSW and HIBOR benchmark rates, and seeks a declaratory judgment that the defendants acted unlawfully and conspired to engage in improper manipulation of benchmarks.
If the plaintiffs succeed inthe action, the defendants would be responsible for paying costs of the litigation, but each allegedly impacted investor would need to prove its own actual damages.
It is not possible at this time to determine the final outcome of this litigation, but IEL has factual and legal defences to the claims and intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously.
The Group is covered by an indemnity from NEX in relation to any outflow in respect of the ICAP entities with regard to these matters.
ii Swiss LIBOR Class Action On 4 December 2017, a class of plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Class Action Complaint in the matter of Sonterra Capital Master Fund Ltd. et al.
v. Credit Suisse Group AG et al.
naming as defendants, among others, TP ICAP plc, Tullett Prebon Americas Corp. Tullett Prebon USA Inc. Tullett Prebon Financial Services LLC, Tullett Prebon Europe Limited, Cosmorex AG, ICAP Europe Limited, and ICAP Securities USA LLC together, the Companies.
The Second Amended Complaint generally alleges that the Companies conspired with certain bank customers tomanipulate Swiss Franc LIBOR and prices of Swiss Franc LIBOR based derivatives by disseminating false pricing information in false run-throughs and false prices published on screens viewed by customers in violation of the Sherman Act anti-trust and RICO.
The Companies intend to contest liability in the matter and to vigorously defend themselves.
A briefing schedule has been agreed in connection with a motion to dismiss that the Companies intend to make on both jurisdictional and substantive grounds.
It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of this action or to provide an estimate of any potential financial impact.
General note From time to time the Companys subsidiaries are engaged in litigation in relation to a variety of matters, and it is required to provide information to regulators and other government agencies as part of informal and formal enquiries or market reviews.
The Companys reputation may also be damaged by any involvement or the involvement of any of its employees or former employees in any regulatory investigation and by any allegations or findings, even where the associated fine or penalty is not material.
Save as outlined above in respect of legal matters or disputes for which a provision has not been made, notwithstanding the uncertainties that are inherent in the outcome of such matters, there are no individual matters which are considered to pose a significant risk of material adverse financial impact on the Groups results or net assets.
In the normal course of business, certain of the Companys subsidiaries enter into guarantees and indemnities to cover trading arrangements and or the use of third party services or software.
The Group operates in a wide variety of jurisdictions around the world and uncertainties therefore exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax laws and practices of those territories.
The Group establishes provisions for taxes other than current and deferred income taxes, based upon various factors which are continually evaluated, if there is a present obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Operating lease commitments 2017 2016 m m Minimum operating lease payments recognised in the income statement 32 18 At 31 December 2017 the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due asfollows: 2017 2016 Buildings Other Buildings Other m m m m Within one year 34 1 26 1 Within two to five years 90 1 79 1 Over five years 118 106 242 2 211 2 www.
com 148 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 35.
Retirement benefits a Defined benefit schemes The Group has a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK and a small number of schemes operated in other countries.
The overseas schemes are not significant in the context of the Group.
2017 2016 m m Defined benefit scheme surplus UK 57 100 Defined benefit schemes deficit Overseas 4 3 b UK defined benefit scheme The Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme is the defined benefit section of the Tullett Prebon Pension Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme is a final salary, funded pension scheme that is closed to new members and future accrual.
For members still in service there is a continuing link between benefits and pensionable pay.
The Principal Employer is Tullett Prebon Group Limited.
The assets of the Scheme are held separately from those of the Group, either in separate trustee administered funds or in contract-based policies of insurance.
The latest funding actuarial valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 30 April 2016 by independent qualified actuaries.
The actuarial funding surplus of the Scheme at that date was 61m and under the agreed schedule of contributions the Group will continue not to make any payments into the Scheme.
The Trustees of the Scheme are currently making arrangements for the transfer of the Schemes liabilities to a third party to take on responsibility for the provision of benefits, removing the Groups responsibility for supporting the Scheme financially.
During 2017, the Trustees of the Scheme purchased a bulk annuity policy with an insurance company that covered all of the Schemes liabilities.
The policy isinthe name of the Scheme and is a Scheme asset.
The purchase of the policy represents a bulk annuity buy-in and has been accounted for in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Under IAS 19, the accounting value of the purchased policy is set to be equal to the value of the liabilities covered, calculated using the current IAS 19 actuarial assumptions for the defined benefit obligation.
As the actual purchase price of the policy was higher than the accounting value of the policy, a reduction in the Schemes assets was recorded.
This reduction is included within the Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest and reported as part of the Groups Remeasurement of defined benefit pension schemes included within the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In 2016, as part of the preparation for the buy-in, the Trustees offered all deferred members an option, for a limited time, to benefit from atransfer of their benefits to another provider.
The offer resulted in approximately 63 members transferring a total of 29m in assets out ofthe Scheme.
A net gain of 4m arose as a result of this settlement, representing the difference between the 29m transferred out and the corresponding liabilities, measured on an IAS 19 basis, at the date that the settlement became binding.
The amounts included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of the Scheme are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Fair value of Scheme assets 260 317 Present value of Scheme liabilities 203 217 Defined benefit scheme surplus 57 100 Deferred tax liability Note 20 20 35 TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 149 35.
Retirement benefits continued b UK defined benefit scheme continued The main financial assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries of the Scheme to calculate the liabilities under IAS 19 were: 2017 2016 % % Key assumptions Discount rate 2.40 2.50 Expected rate of salary increases 4.75 4.75 1 Rate of increase in LPI pensions in payment 2.40 2.40 Inflation assumption 2.40 2.40 1 This applies to pensions accrued from 6 April 1997.
The majority of current and future pensions receive fixed increases in payment of either 0% or 2.5%.
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables and allow for future mortality improvements and are the same as those adopted for the 2016 funding valuation.
Assumptions for the Scheme are that a member who retires in 15 years time at age 60 will live onaverage for a further 31.3 years 2016: 31.5 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 32.7 years 2016: 32.9 years after retirement if they are female.
Current pensioners are assumed to have a generally shorter life expectancy based on their current age.
The valuation of the Scheme liabilities is sensitive to changes in the assumptions used.
The effect of changes in the discount rate, inflation and mortality assumptions, assuming an independent change in one assumption with all others held constant, on the liabilities is shown below: Scheme Scheme assets liabilities Surplus m m m As at 31 December 2017 260 203 57 Following a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate Change 3.5% 4.5% New value 269 212 57 Following a 0.25% increase in the inflation assumption Change 2.0% 2.6% New value 265 208 57 Life expectancy increases by 3 years Change 7.7% 9.9% New value 280 223 57 The above analysis does not reflect any inter-relationship between the assumptions.
Changes to the risks inherent in the Scheme would result in changes to the Schemes carrying value.
However, as a result of the bulk annuity purchase, the value of the Schemes insurance asset matches changes in the insured liabilities.
The value of Schemes surplus assets will change as the market value of those investments change.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the Scheme were as follows: 2017 2016 m m Deemed interest arising on the defined benefit pension scheme surplus 3 3 Schemes administrative expenses 1 1 Pension scheme settlement gain 4 Deemed interest arising on the defined benefit pension scheme surplus has been included within finance income Note 8. www.
com 150 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 35.
Retirement benefits continued b UK defined benefit scheme continued The amounts recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the Scheme were as follows: 2017 2016 m m Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income Trustee administered funds 19 50 Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income revaluation of insurance policies 73 1 Actuarial losses arising on the revaluation of insurance policies 1 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 4 40 Actuarial gains losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 2 8 Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 11 4 Remeasurement of the defined benefit pension scheme 45 6 Movements in the present value of the Scheme liabilities were as follows: 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 217 202 Deemed interest cost 5 7 Settlement gains 4 Actuarial losses on the revaluation of insurance policies 1 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 4 40 Actuarial gains losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 2 8 Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 11 4 Benefits paid transfers out 10 33 At 31 December 203 217 Movements in the fair value of the Scheme assets were as follows: 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 317 290 Deemed interest income 8 10 Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income Trustee administered funds 19 50 Return on Scheme assets excluding deemed interest income revaluation of insurance policies 73 1 Benefits paid transfers out 10 33 Administrative expense 1 1 At 31 December 260 317 The major categories and fair values of the Scheme assets as at 31 December were as follows: 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents 20 4 Equity instruments Consumer products 179 Industrials 19 Business services 31 229 Government bonds 36 78 Insurance policies 203 5 Other receivables 1 1 At 31 December 260 317 During 2017, as part of the arrangements for insuring the Schemes liabilities, the Trustees transferred all of the Schemes equity investments into fixed income securities and bonds.
The Scheme does not hedge against foreign currency exposures or interest rate risk.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 151 35.
Retirement benefits continued b UK defined benefit scheme continued The Scheme duration is an indicator of the weighted average time until benefit payments are made.
For the Scheme as a whole, the duration is around 20years reflecting the approximate split of the defined benefit liability between current employees duration of 25 years, deferred members duration of23years and current pensioners duration of 13 years.
The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid into the Scheme during 2018 is nil.
c Defined contribution pensions The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes for qualifying employees.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of theGroup.
The defined contribution pension cost for the Group charged to administrative expenses was 13m 2016: 7m, of which 7m 2016: 3m related tooverseas schemes.
As at 31 December 2017, there was 1m outstanding in respect of the current reporting period that had not been paid over to the schemes 2016: nil.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this Note.
The total amounts owed to and from associates and joint ventures at 31 December 2017, which also represent the value of transactions during the year, areset out below: Amounts owed by Amounts owed to related parties related parties 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Associates 3 3 Joint ventures 1 1 2 2 The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Directors Costs in respect of the Directors who were the key management personnel of the Group during the year are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Report onDirectors Remuneration on pages 69 to 89.
2017 2016 m m Short term benefits 4 5 Social security costs 1 1 5 6 www.
com 152 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 37.
Principal subsidiaries At 31 December 2017, the following companies were the Groups principal subsidiary undertakings.
A full list of the Groups undertakings, thecountry of incorporation and the Groups effective percentage of equity owned is set out in the listing on pages 159 to 167.
All subsidiaries are involved in broking or information sales activities and have either a 31 December or 31 March year end as identified below.
Country of incorporation Issued ordinary and operation Principal subsidiary undertakings shares, all voting Australia ICAP Brokers Pty Limited 100% Bermuda operating in England PVM Oil Associates Limited 100% Brazil ICAP do Brasil Corretora fide Ttulos e Valores Mobilirios Ltda 100% Tullett Prebon Brasil S. A.
100% England ICAP Energy Limited 100% ICAP Europe Limited 100% ICAP Global Derivatives Limited 100% ICAP Information Services Limited 100% ICAP Management Services Limited 100% ICAP Securities Limited 100% ICAP WCLK Limited 100% The Link Asset and Securities Company Limited 100% Tullett Prebon Europe Limited 100% Tullett Prebon Securities Limited 100% PVM Oil Futures Limited 100% Guernsey operating in England Tullett Prebon Information Limited 100% Hong Kong ICAP Hong Kong Limited 100% ICAP Equities Asia Limited 100% ICAP Securities Hong Kong Limited 100% Tullett Prebon Hong Kong Limited 100% Indonesia PT.
Inti Tullett Prebon Indonesia 57.52% Japan Tullett Prebon Japan Limited 100% Singapore ICAP AP Singapore Pte.
Limited 100% ICAP Management Services Private Limited 100% Tullett Prebon Energy Singapore Pte.
Ltd. 100% Tullett Prebon Singapore Limited 100% PVM Oil Associates Pte.
Ltd. 100% UAE Tullett Prebon Dubai Limited 100% United States ICAP Corporates LLC 100% ICAP Energy LLC 100% ICAP Information Services Inc. 100% ICAP Securities USA LLC 100% 1 ICAP SEF US LLC 100% Tullett Prebon Americas Corp. 100% Tullett Prebon Financial Services LLC 100% PVM Futures Inc 100% Tullett Prebon Information Inc 100% 1 31 March year end.
As at 31 December 2017, 13m 2016: 21m is due to non-controlling interests relating to those subsidiaries that are not wholly owned.
Movements in non-controlling interests are set out in Note 28 c. No individual non-controlling interest is material to the Group.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of the Group to access or use assets and settle liabilities relating to these subsidiaries.
Events after the balance sheet date In January 2018 the Group completed the acquisition of SCS Commodities Corp, the details of which are set out in Note 30 c. TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017
