Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our website Changes of address Our corporate website, www.
com, provides access to To avoid missing important correspondence relating to your share price information as well as sections on managing your shareholding, it is important that you inform our Registrar, shareholding online, corporate governance and other investor Equiniti, of your new address as soon as possible.
Sharegift Managing your shares online If you have a very small shareholding that is uneconomical to sell, Shareholders can manage their holding online by registering to use you may want to consider donating it to Sharegift Registered our shareholder portal at www.
This free service Charity no.
10526886, a charity that specialises in the donation is provided by our Registrar, Equiniti, giving quick and easy access of small, unwanted shareholdings to good causes.
You can find to your shareholding, allowing you to manage all aspects of your out more by visiting www.
org or by calling 44 0 207 shareholding online, with a useful FAQ section.
Electronic communications Shareholder queries We encourage shareholders to consider receiving their Our share register is maintained by our Registrar, Equiniti.
Choosing to receive your communications electronically means you receive information Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should quickly and securely and allows us to communicate in a more contact Equiniti directly using one of the methods listed opposite.
environmentally friendly and cost-effective way.
You can register for For more general queries, shareholders can look at our corporate this service online using our share portal at www.
com Duplicate documents American Depositary Receipts ADRs Some shareholders find that they receive duplicate documentation Serco has established a sponsored Level I ADR programme.
Serco due to having more than one account on the share register.
If ADRs are traded on the US over-the-counter market SCGPY.
you think you fall into this group and would like to combine your accounts, please contact our Registrar, Equiniti.
For queries relating to your ADR holding, please contact our ADR depositary bank, Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas.
