com including: notify the death of a shareholder.
regular updates about our business: you can also manage your shareholding online by registering for hotel and other property information: Shareview at www.
When contacting equiniti or the ability to book a room at one of our hotels around the world: registering online, you should have your shareholder reference share price information: number at hand.
This can be found on your share certificate or financial results and investor information: and latest dividend tax voucher.
our financial calendar which includes dividend payment dates and amounts.
contact details for our registrar: Electronic shareholder communications equiniti, aspect House, Spencer road, lancing, West Sussex registering for online communication gives shareholders more Bn996da, united Kingdom control of their shareholding.
The registration process is via our registrars secure website www.
Telephone: 0371 384 2343 and outside the uK 44 121 415 7047 once registered shareholders are able to: Textphone: 0371 384 2255 and outside the uK 44 121 415 7028 elect how we communicate with them: lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to friday, uK time.
amend their details: amend the way dividends are received: and buy or sell shares online.
ShareGift it may be that you have a small number of shares which would cost This does not mean shareholders can no longer receive paper you more to sell than they are worth.
it is possible to donate these to copies of documents.
We are able to offer a range of services and ShareGift, a registered charity, who provide a free service to enable tailor communication to meet their needs.
you to dispose charitably of such shares.
More information on this service can be obtained from www.
org or by calling 44 Managing your shares 0 207 930 3737. please contact our registrar, equiniti, to manage your shareholding if you wish to: register for electronic communications: transfer your shares: change your registered name or address: register a lost share certificate and obtain a replacement: consolidate your share holdings: HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2N D LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HE co AD n T0 inue 1ST L dINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 169 Be aware of share fraudsters Shareholders are cautioned to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, sell your shares at a premium or offers of free reports on the company.
if you do receive such an approach, you are encouraged to take the following steps: obtain the full name of the person and organisation and make a record of any other information they give you, for example telephone number, address or web address: if the caller persists, simply hang up: and report the matter to the financial conduct authority fca so that they can investigate.
if you suspect that you have been approached by fraudsters please tell the fca using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
you can also call the fca consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. you are advised to deal only with financial services firms that are authorised by the fca.
check the firm is properly authorised by the fca before getting involved by visiting www.
if you do deal with an unauthorised firm you will not be eligible to receive payment under the financial Services compensation Scheme if anything goes wrong.
if you have lost money to investment fraud, you should report it to action fraud on 0300 123 2040 or online at www.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 170 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 SHareHolder inforMaTion conTinued Contacts and advisers Solicitor Hogan lovells international llp Registered office Victoria House, Victoria road, Horley, Surrey rH6 7af, Principal bankers united Kingdom Bank of america Merrill lynch registered in england and Wales no: 3004377 dBS Bank ltd. Mizuho Bank, ltd. Corporate headquarters oversea-chinese Banking corporation limited Scarsdale place, Kensington, london W8 5Sy, royal Bank of Scotland plc united Kingdom Sumitomo Mitsui Banking corporation MufG Bank, ltd. formerly The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi ufj, ltd.
Stockbroker The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking corporation limited credit Suisse international Registrar Auditor equiniti limited KpMG llp
