St Str ra attee gg icic R Repo epro trt D Di ir re ec ctto o rrss R R epo epr o trt Fi Fin na an nc ciia al S l S tt aat tee m m en etn sts Useful Contacts Registrar Auditors Equiniti KPMG LLP Chartered Accountants Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing Sercos registered office West Sussex Serco House BN99 6DA 16 Bartley Wood Business Park United Kingdom Bartley Way Telephone 0371 384 2932 from within UK Hook 44 0 121 415 7047 from outside UK Hampshire Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm RG27 9UY Monday to Friday.
co. uk Telephone 44 0 1256 745 900 Email investors@serco.
com Shareholders can securely send queries via the website using the 'Help' section.
Registered in England and Wales No.
2048608 ADR depositary bank Group General Counsel and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas Company Secretary c o American Stock Transfer & Trust Company David Eveleigh 6201 15th Avenue Brooklyn NY 11219 USA Additional documents Telephone 1 866 249 2593 toll-free within USA The Annual Report is available for download in pdf format at 1 718 921 8124 from outside USA www.
com Unsolicited mail and shareholder fraud Shareholders are advised to be wary of unsolicited mail or Stockbrokers telephone calls offering free advice, to buy shares at a discount or JP Morgan Cazenove offering free company reports.
To find more detailed information Bank of America Merrill Lynch on how shareholders can be protected from investment scams visit www.
uk consumers scams investment-scams  Legal Disclaimer Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, Serco expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements which are, or may be deemed to be, 'forwardstatements contained in this publication to reflect any change looking statements'.
By their nature, these forward-looking in Serco's expectations or any change in events, conditions statements are subject to a number of known and unknown or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are Accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on any such beyond Sercos control or influence, and actual results and forward-looking statements.
events could differ materially from those currently being anticipated as reflected in such statements.
For a description Any references in this publication to other reports or of certain factors that may affect Sercos business, financial materials, including website addresses, are for the readers performance or results of operations, please refer to the interest only.
Neither the content of Sercos website nor any Principal Risks and Uncertainties set out in this Annual Report website accessible from hyperlinks from Sercos website, and Accounts on pages 20 to 23.
These forward-looking including any materials contained or accessible thereon, are statements speak only as of the date of this publication.
incorporated in or form part of this publication.
Past performance should not be taken as an indication or Serco is subject to the regulatory requirements of the guarantee of future results and no representation or warranty, Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom.
express or implied, is made regarding future performance.
com Serco Group plc Serco House 16 Bartley Wood Business Park Bartley Way, Hook Hampshire, RG27 9UY For general enquiries contact T: 44 0 1256 745900 E: generalenquiries@serco.
