Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information Serco Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.
These consolidated financial statements comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and are presented in pounds Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Serco operates.
All amounts have been rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds, foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting These consolidated financial statements on pages 152 to 239 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted for use in the European Union IFRS and therefore comply with the requirements set out in Article 4 of the EU IASregulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
The following principal accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently in the current and preceding financial year except as stated below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved when the Company: i has the power over the investee: ii is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and iii has the ability to use its power to affect the returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profits or losses and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separate from equity of shareholders of Serco Group plc.
Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to operate within the level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future and accordingly believe that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concernbasis.
In assessing the basis of preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, the Directors have considered the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, 2014: namely assessing the applicability of the going concern basis, the review period and disclosures.
The Directors have undertaken a rigorous assessment of going concern and liquidity, taking into account financial forecasts, which indicate sufficient capacity in our financing facilities and associated covenants to support the Group.
In order to satisfy themselves that they have adequate resources for the future, the Directors have reviewed the Groups existing debt levels, the committed funding and liquidity positions under our debt covenants, and our ability to generate cash from trading activities and working capital requirements.
The Groups current principal debt facilities at the year-end comprised a 480m revolving credit facility, and 261m of US private placement notes.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had 741m of committed credit facilities and committed headroom of 588m.
In undertaking this review the Directors have considered the business plans which provide financial projections for the foreseeable future.
For the purposes of this review, we consider that to be the period ending 30 June 2019.
The Directors have also reviewed the principal risks considered on pages 20 to 29 of the Strategic Report and taken account of the results of sensitivity testing.
163 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Prior year restatement The Group has undergone a programme of work on its financial data structures to appropriately allocate and charge costs to the relevant divisions and between cost of sales and administrative expenses.
As a result of the activities performed in this area, the Groups classification of cost items in the income statement has changed.
The prior periods results have been restated to reflect the cost items identified which should have been reallocated in 2016.
Cost of sales are considered to be the direct costs of operating ongoing contracts.
This includes the unavoidable costs of servicing contracts and all costs that a contract would incur purely on its own without a parent company, regardless of how those services are delivered within the wider Group, such as IT or Human Resource management services provided centrally.
The impact on the relevant line items in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2016 is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 as previously stated Adjustment as restated Impact on consolidated income statement m m m Cost of sales 2,767.6 43.0 2,724.6 Gross profit 243.4 43.0 286.4 General and administrative expenses 173.2 43.0 216.2 Adoption of new and revised standards None of the changes to IFRS that became effective in the current reporting period have had a significant impact on the Groups financialstatements.
New standards and interpretations not applied: IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 January 2018, provides a single, principles-based five step model to be applied to all sales contracts, based on the transfer of control of goods and services to customers.
It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance for goods, services and construction contracts currently included in IAS11 Construction Contracts and IAS18 Revenue.
Under the transition rules IFRS15 will be applied retrospectively to the prior period in accordance with IAS8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors, subject to the following expedients: contracts completed prior to 1 January 2018 and that begin and end within the same annual reporting period will not be restated: for contracts that have variable consideration and which have completed prior to 1 January 2018, the revenues recognised will reflect the actual outcome, rather than being estimated and trued up: and the disclosures required for comparative periods in respect of amount of revenue allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when that amount is expected to be recognised will not be made.
The cumulative effect of initially applying the standard will be shown as an adjustment to brought forward retained earnings as at 1January2017.
Below is set out the expected revenue recognition policy under IFRS15 together with the estimated impact of adopting the standard.
Revenue recognition: Repeat service based contracts The majority of the Groups contracts are repeat service based contracts where value is transferred to the customer over time as the core services are delivered and therefore in most cases revenue will be recognised on the output basis, with revenue linked to the deliverables provided to the customer.
Where any price step downs are required in a contract accounted for under the output basis and output is not decreasing, revenue will require deferral from initial years to subsequent years in order for revenue to be recognised on a consistent basis.
There are some contracts where a separate performance obligation has been identified for services where the pattern of delivery differs to the core services and are capable of being distinct.
In these instances, where the transfer of control is most closely aligned to our efforts in delivering the service, then the input method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognised in direct proportion to costs incurred.
Where deemed appropriate, the Group will utilise the practical expedient within IFRS15, allowing revenue to be recognised at the amount which the Group has the right to invoice, where that amount corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Groups performance completed to date.
Under IFRS15, unless upfront fees received from customers including transition payments can be clearly attributable to a distinct service the customer is obtaining, then such payments do not constitute a separate performance obligation and instead are deferred and spread over the life of the core services.
Any changes to the enforceable rights and obligations with customers and or an update to the transaction price will not be recognised as revenue until there is evidence of customer agreement in line with the Groups policies.
Any variable amounts will only be recognised where it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur.
164 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Where the Group is required to assess whether it is acting as principal or as an agent in respect of goods or services procured for customers, the Group is acting as principal if it is in control of a good or a service prior to transferring to the customer and an agent where it is arranging for those goods or services to be provided to the customer without obtaining control.
Revenue recognition: Long-term project based contracts The Group has a limited number of long-term contracts for the provision of complex, project-based services.
When control of such a deliverable is passed onto the customer at the final stage of a contract, the recognition of revenue is delayed until control has been passed.
However, where the customer has control over the life of the deliverable or where the Group has a legally enforceable right to remuneration for the work completed to date, or at milestone periods, revenue will be recognised in line with the associated transfer of control or milestone dates.
Revenue recognition: Other Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Interest income is accrued for on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the right to receive payment has been established.
Contract costs Bid costs are capitalised only when they relate directly to a contract and are incremental to securing the contract.
Any costs which would have been incurred whether or not the contract is actually won are not considered to be capitalised bid costs.
Contract costs are charged to the income statement as incurred, including the necessary accrual for costs which have not yet been invoiced, unless the expense relates to a specific time frame covering future periods.
Contract costs can only be capitalised when the expenditure meets all of the following three criteria and are not within the scope of another accounting standard, such as inventories, intangible assets, or property, plant and equipment: The costs relate directly to a contract.
These include: direct labour, being the salaries and wages of employees providing the promised services to the customer: direct materials such as supplies used in providing the promised services to a customer: and other costs that are incurred only because an entity entered into the contract, such as payments to subcontractors.
The costs generate or enhance the resources used in satisfying performance obligations in the future.
For initial contract costs capitalised, such costs only fall into one of the following two categories: the mobilisation of contract staff, being the costs of moving existing contract staff to other Group locations: or directly incremental costs incurred in meeting contractual obligations incurred prior to contract delivery, which are required to ensure a proper handover from the previous contractor.
Redundancy costs are never capitalised.
The costs are expected to be recovered, i. e. the contract is expected to be profitable after amortising the capitalised costs.
Estimated impact of the adoption of IFRS15 The estimated impact for the Group of adopting IFRS15 is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 as reported Adjustment as restated m m m Revenue 2,953.6 3.0 2,950.6 Underlying Trading Profit 69.8 0.3 69.5 Operating profit before exceptional items 49.6 8.7 40.9 Profit before tax 19.1 8.7 10.4 Tax 19.0 0.4 18.6 Profit after tax 0.1 8.3 8.2 As at 1 January 2017 m Retained earnings at 1 January 2017 as reported 83.1 Adjustment to retained earnings before the impact of onerous contract provisions 54.5 Impact of onerous contract provisions 21.7 Retained earnings at 1 January 2017 as restated 50.3 The Group will continue to work to design, implement and refine procedures to apply the new requirements of IFRS15 and to finalise accounting policy choices, including in its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
As a result of this ongoing work, it is possible that there may be some changes to the impact above prior to the 30 June 2018 results being issued.
However, at this time these are not expected to besignificant.
165 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied: IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers continued Estimated impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 continued The total adjustment to the opening balance of the Groups equity at 1 January 2017 is a decrease of 32.8m.
The principal components of the estimated adjustment are as follows: A decrease of 14.4m due to revenues being recognised at a constant amount over the life of the contract where the level of services provided is broadly consistent.
A decrease of 11.4m due to a change in the basis of measuring progress for asset maintenance and replacement services, including dry docking.
Where the resources used to fulfil the performance obligations best depicts how control is passed to the customer, the input method of accounting has been applied.
A decrease of 6.8m due to upfront fees and transition payments being deferred and spread in line with delivery of the core services.
The following table details the specific areas impacted as a result of the adoption of IFRS15 and cross-referenced below the table are Sercos policies in adopting the requirements of the standard: Operating profit before exceptional Impact on retained earnings as at 1 January 2017 and the consolidated Retained earnings Revenue items income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 m m m Under current accounting standards 83.1 2,953.6 49.6 IFRS15 adjustments: i Upfront fees 2.6 0.9 0.8 ii Transition, transformation and other mobilisation activities 4.2 2.1 3.0 iii Asset maintenance and replacement, including vessel dry docking 11.4 1.3 0.8 iv Percentage of completion accounting 0.2 0.5 0.1 v Pass through revenues and procurement arrangements 12.6 vi Consideration payable to a customer 0.5 0.4 vii Variable pricing 14.4 5.3 3.0 viii OCP charges and releases 8.4 Adjusted under IFRS15 50.3 2,950.6 40.9 i Upfront fees.
For some contracts, the Group receives non-refundable amounts at the start of the contract to cover initial costs.
Under IFRS15, unless upfront fees are attributable to a good or a service the customer is in control of, such fees do not constitute a separate performance obligation and instead are allocated to the performance obligations of the contract, therefore being spread over the life of the other services.
In some instances such upfront fees were recognised as revenue under IAS18 but are deferred under IFRS15.
Upfront payments are analysed to determine whether they constitute a material financing arrangement under IFRS15.
ii T ransition, transformation and other mobilisation activities.
Transition activities which are administrative in nature are not treated as separate performance obligations.
Transition and transformation activities which are more than administrative in nature are assessed to determine whether they form a separate performance obligation.
Where it can be demonstrated that the transition activities benefit the customer without future activities being provided then the transition phase is accounted for as a separate performance obligation under the contract and revenue recognised accordingly.
Where it is concluded that the transformation, transition or mobilisation activity does not form a separate performance obligation under the contract, any payments received from the customer are allocated to the performance obligations of the contract and recognised over the life of the other services.
In some instances revenue recognised under IAS18 is deferred under IFRS15.
iii Asset maintenance and replacement, including vessel dry docking.
In many of the contracts the Group enters into, the provision of maintenance and replacement services are capable of being distinct and therefore these have been accounted for as separate performance obligations.
The input method of accounting is used to reflect the pattern of delivery to the customer and the enhancement of customer owned assets.
In some instances the output method of accounting is used due to the ongoing repetitive nature and frequency of the services.
Adopting IFRS15 will result in the deferral of revenue recognised under IAS18 on certain contracts.
iv Percentage of completion accounting.
Changes to the Groups current accounting policy arise when the percentage of completion model under IAS11 is replaced by the output method of accounting.
The output method is used where the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits in direct proportion to the deliverable performed rather than the level of expense incurred to date.
v Pass through revenues and procurement arrangements.
A pass through arrangement is where goods or services are provided by a third party, but sourced by the Group on behalf of the customer.
In this instance, the Group does not recognise revenue for the amount received from the customer as compensation of the cost of the good or service but rather only the margin element if any is recorded as revenue.
Recognition of such revenues under IFRS15 is linked directly to whether the Group has control of the deliverable prior to transfer rather than an assessment of the risks and rewards associated with the services as was the case under IAS18.
For certain procurement arrangements the Group does not have control prior to transfer, but does have a level of risk associated with the activity, and therefore these arrangements are not recognised on a net basis instead of the gross basis under IAS18.
166 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements vi Consideration payable to a customer.
Under IFRS15 all amounts payable to a customer including all payments to the customer and all reductions to amounts paid by the customer are recorded as a reduction in revenue.
In 2017, an element of reductions have been recorded as costs.
It is not uncommon in outsourcing arrangements for the payment terms to be set to decline over the future periods i. e. a 5% reduction in fees is built into years five to six, 6% reduction in years seven to eight and so on.
However, where revenue recognition under IFSR15 is based on the output method and the service remains consistent over the contract life, the reduction in the amounts paid by the customer should not be reflected in declining revenues, even if this was appropriate under IAS18.
As a result, revenue recognised in prior years for certain contracts will be deferred under IFRS15.
viii OCP charges and releases.
Where an adjustment is required by IFRS15 and the relevant contract is loss making, the deferral of revenue from prior years can result in a decrease in the level of OCP needed under IFRS15, as future losses will reduce by the level of deferred revenue.
During the year one contract recorded a release against the OCP balance held under current accounting standards.
As a result of IFRS15, revenues on this contract have been deferred, reducing the opening OCP balance, increasing deferred revenue and therefore the release of the relevant OCP balance is lower under IFRS15.
In addition to the areas where a financial impact has been identified as a result of adoption of IFRS15 as identified above, there are certain accounting policies which are new or change existing policies applied by the Group and may have an impact on the future financial performance of the Group.
The policies in these areas to be adopted by the Group are set out below: ix Contract variations.
Contract modifications such as change orders, variations, change notices and amendments could be approved in writing, by oral agreement or implied by customary business practices.
Under IFRS15 contract modifications are changes in the scope or price or both of a contract that is approved by the parties to the contract.
If the parties to the contract have not approved a contract modification, revenue should be recognised in accordance with the existing contractual terms and associated cash payments are deferred until the contract modification is approved.
The judgements historically applied have been consistent with this policy.
IFRS15 provides clear guidance on variable income unlike IAS18 and two areas may be impacted as a result.
First, if the consideration paid by a customer includes a variable amount requiring judgement, it is only recognised where it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur.
Second, service penalties or any claims made by us against the customer which must be recognised in revenue unless it is highly probable that they will not result in future settlement.
However, judgements taken historically are consistent with the requirements of IFRS15 and there is no impact of these changes on the Group.
Under certain contracts there is an obligation to make redundancies and the Group is compensated for these costs.
Historically, the Group may have recognised revenues as and when the customer makes payments or the Group may have capitalised the expense to match with payments being made in the future.
Under IFRS15, all redundancy costs must be expensed in the period they are incurred and revenue is not recognised on these redundancy transactions, with any cash payments deferred over the contract in line with the other services being delivered.
No adjustment was required in respect of this difference.
Where the Group receives income for software licences and maintenance services provided through ongoing support and operational functionality, this licence revenue is recognised over the period when the maintenance obligation exists.
There are currently no significant licencing arrangements entered into by the Group with its customers which are impacted by IFRS15.
xiii Extension periods granted or other options.
Providing the option for a customer to obtain extension periods or other services may lead to a separate performance obligation where a material right exists.
If a separate performance obligation exists then there would be an allocation of the transaction price from the original contract in addition to any revenues earned through the option period.
A separate performance obligation exists for options under a contract if both of the following conditions are met.
First, if the customer is unable to obtain the right to acquire the additional goods or services on the same or similar terms without entering into the original contract for example they cannot get the option without first entering into the main contract, which would be the case for any extension period.
Second, the option does not simply give the customer the right to acquire additional goods or services at a price that reflects the stand alone selling price for those goods or services for example if the pricing of the option is consistent with what the pricing would have been in any case there is no separate PO, as the customer gains no incremental benefit from the existence of the option.
No differences were noted under IFRS15 in this area.
Revenue is only recognised when control is passed to a customer and therefore where revenue is recognised over time no work in progress is created unlike under current accounting standards.
None of the contracts with revenues recognised over time have work in progress balances.
Where the timing of payments agreed with the customer provides either party with a significant benefit of financing either explicitly or implicitly, the associated asset liability is adjusted for the time value of money and an interest charge or income is recognised and a corresponding offset in revenue.
The Groups policy under IFRS15 is to consider significant to be greater than 5% of the total transaction price of the contractual arrangement and no such arrangements are in place.
If a customer contributes goods or services for example, materials, equipment or labour to facilitate the fulfilment of the contract, the Group assesses whether control is obtained for those contributed goods or services.
If the Group obtains control of the contributed goods or services, then the estimated fair value of these would be recognised as revenue.
No such transactions have been noted.
167 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Other new standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following changes to IFRS have not been applied but could potentially have a significant impact: i IFRS9 Financial Instruments has been endorsed by the EU and will be effective from 1 January 2018.
This standard replaces IAS39 and introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial instruments and puts in place a new hedge accounting model that is designed to be more closely aligned with how entities undertake risk management activities when hedging financial and non-financial risk exposures.
The impact of IFRS9 on the regular trading activities of the Group is expected to be immaterial.
The key areas of focus for the Group under IFRS9 are: External loan receivables, including those from equity accounted entities.
Debt refinancing not accounted for as a significant modification under IAS39.
Expected credit losses being recognised on trade debtors and contract assets recognised under IFRS15.
IFRS9 replaces the incurred loss model in IAS39 with an expected credit loss model.
The new model applies to financial assets that are not measured at FVTPL fair value through profit and loss, including loans, lease and trade receivables, debt securities, contract assets under IFRS15 and specified financial guarantees and loan commitments issued.
It does not apply to equity investments.
Under the expected credit loss model, the Group is required to calculate the allowance for credit losses by considering on a discounted basis the cash shortfalls it would incur in various default scenarios for prescribed future periods and multiplying the shortfalls by the probability of each scenario occurring.
The allowance is the sum of these probability weighted outcomes.
Because every loan and receivable carries with it some risk of default, it is expected that every such asset has a loss attached to it from the moment of its origination.
The financial assets held on the balance sheet have been reviewed in order to determine whether any loss is required to be recorded based on these expected credit losses.
However, given the fact that the Groups customers are governments it is unlikely that there will be a default as a result of credit risk and any provision for bad debts is more likely to be related to a contractual dispute.
In most cases, each amount receivable has specific risk attached to recoverability which is most likely based on the services provided under the terms of the contract and, given the majority of receivables are backed by organisations with a sovereign credit rating, a general view on recoverability based on the counterparty credit risk could be misleading.
ii IFRS16 Leases is pending EU endorsement, which is expected prior to the effective date of 1 January 2019.
The standard replaces IAS17 Leases and has been introduced in order to improve the comparability of financial statements through developing an approach that is more consistent with the conceptual framework definitions of assets and liabilities.
The key change will be in respect of leases currently classified as operating leases.
Under the new standard leases will be recognised on the balance sheet as liabilities with corresponding assets being created, grossing up the balance sheet but with no net effect on net assets at the start of the lease.
The income statement impact will be a new interest charge arising from the rate implicit in the liability and as currently the full impact is a charge to operating profit, the change will result in an improvement to operating results.
We have not quantified the likely impact of the new standard, the transition approach to be taken or concluded whether it will be adopted early, which is allowed from the date IFRS15 is adopted.
The quantitative impact of the adoption of IFRS16 will be disclosed prior to the adoption of this new standard.
Fair value Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or is estimated using another valuation technique.
There are certain transactions in these financial statements which are similar to fair value, but are determined by the treatment set out in their respective standards.
These are share based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS2 Share based Payment, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS17 Leases, or the calculation of net realisable value under IAS2 Inventories or value in use under IAS36 Impairment of Assets.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts due for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Calculating the fair value of revenue typically does not require a high level of judgement, the exceptions to this are the following areas: Uncontracted variations or claims.
Where work has been performed outside of the normal contracting framework at the request of the customer or a claim has been made for work performed but is in dispute, judgement is required in order to determine whether there is sufficient certainty that the Group will be financially compensated.
Revenue is only recognised to the extent that they have been orally agreed by the customer or are virtually certain of being received and revenue recognised in this manner is not considered to be significant to the Groups results.
When returns are directly linked to performance, through cost savings or other customer driven key performance indicators over a period of time an estimate is made of the likelihood of achieving the necessary level of performance when the period covers a financial year end.
Revenue is only recognised when we can be reasonably certain of achieving the required level of performance and such payment mechanisms do not represent a significant proportion of annual revenue.
Revenue and profit is recognised for certain long term project based contracts based on the stage of completion of the contract activity.
The assessment of the stage of completion requires the exercise of judgement and is measured by the proportion of costs incurred compared to the estimated whole life contract costs, except where whole life contract costs exceed the contract value, in which case the excess is expensed immediately.
168 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements While each of these areas requires a high level of judgement, only long term contract accounting could have a significant impact on the Groups financial results or position.
However, the only revenues associated with these contracts are earned on loss making contracts with onerous loss provisions and as a result we do not identify this as a separate item for disclosure in Note 3.
Revenue recognition: Repeat service based contracts Revenue on repeat service based contracts is recognised as services are provided in line with the transfer of control to the customer.
Where initial contract costs phase in costs are paid for by the customer, revenue is recognised when the related costs are incurred.
Revenue recognition: Long term project based contracts The Group has a limited number of long term contracts for the provision of complex, project-based services.
Where the outcome of such long term project based contracts can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS18 Revenue and IAS11 Construction Contracts.
This is normally measured by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract costs, but where a more accurate basis is available that alternative methodology is used.
Contract costs include a rational allocation of overheads.
Where the outcome of a long term project based contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs will be recovered.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Such amounts are not discounted.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Bid costs and phase in costs All bid costs are expensed through the income statement up to the point where contract award or full recovery of costs is virtually certain, being the point at which the Group has at least reached preferred bidder status.
Bid costs incurred after this point are then capitalised within trade and other receivables.
On contract award these bid costs are amortised through the income statement over the contract period by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Bid costs are only capitalised to the extent that it is expected that the related contract will generate sufficient future economic benefits to at least offset the amortisation charge.
Phase in costs that are incremental and directly related to the initial set up of contracts are capitalised within trade and other receivables and are recognised on a straight line basis over the life of the contract, except where they are specifically reimbursed as part of the terms of the contract when they are recognised in line with the associated revenue.
Determining whether bid and phase in costs are recoverable involves a high level of judgement as it requires a forecast to be prepared for the expected future profitability of the contract, taking into account the likely future costs and revenues associated with the services not yet performed.
The level of bid and phase in costs can be seen in Note 23.
Operating profit Operating profit is not a measure defined by IFRS and the Group considers this to include the profits and losses from continuing operations prior to corporation tax, interest revenue and finance costs.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income SOCI.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised directly within equity in the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
169 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments which is subject to a maximum of one year.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS3 2008 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except where a different treatment is mandated by another standard.
Investments in joint ventures and associates A joint venture is an arrangement whereby the owning parties have joint control and rights over the net assets of the arrangement.
The Groups investments in joint ventures are incorporated using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, an investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associate or joint venture.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint venture recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is included within the carrying value amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where the Group entity transacts with a joint venture, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the arrangement.
Determining whether joint control exists requires a level of judgement, based upon specific facts and circumstances which exist at the year end.
Details of the unconsolidated joint ventures are provided in notes 6 and 7.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are also incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Goodwill Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is recognised as an intangible asset when control is achieved.
Negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value measurements are based on provisional estimates and may be subject to amendment within one year of the acquisition, resulting in an adjustment to goodwill.
Goodwill itself does not generate independent cash flows and therefore, in order to perform required tests for impairment, it is allocated at inception to the specific cash generating units CGUs or groups of CGUs which are expected to benefit from the acquisition.
On the disposal of a business which includes all or part of a CGU, any attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Where part of a CGU with goodwill is sold, the attributable amount is calculated based on the future discounted cash flows leaving the Group as a proportion of the total CGU future discounted cash flows.
The fair values associated with material business combinations are valued by external advisers and any amount of consideration which is contingent in nature is evaluated at the end of each reporting period, based on internal forecasts.
Other intangible assets Material intangible assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date of completion.
Customer relationships can arise on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represent the incremental value expected to be gained as a result of existing contracts in the purchased business.
These assets are amortised over the average length of the related contracts.
Licences comprise premiums paid for the acquisition of licences, while franchises represent costs incurred in obtaining franchise rights arising on the acquisition of franchises.
These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the respective licence or franchise.
Software and IT represent computer systems and processes used by the Group in order to generate future economic value through normal business operations.
The underlying assets are amortised over the period from which the Group expects to benefit, which is typically between three to eight years.
170 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of certain conditions are met, with all research costs and other development expenditure being expensed when incurred.
The period of expected benefit, and therefore period of amortisation, is typically between three and eight years.
The capitalisation criteria are as follows: an asset is created that can be separately identified, and which the Group intends to use or sell: the finalisation of the asset is technically feasible and the Group has adequate resources to complete its development for use or sale: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Property, plant and equipment Assets held for use in the rendering of services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed except where this is not material.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis at rates designed to reduce the assets to their residual value over their estimated usefullives.
The principal annual rates used are: Freehold buildings 2.5% Short leasehold assets The higher of 10% or the rate produced by the lease term Machinery 15% 20% Motor vehicles 10% 50% Furniture 10% Office equipment 20% 33% Leased equipment The higher of the rate produced by the lease term or useful life The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Given that there is limited history of material gains or losses on disposal of fixed assets, the level of judgement involved in determining the depreciation rates is not considered to be significant.
Asset impairment The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets including goodwill at each reporting period, together with any other assets under the scope of IAS36 Impairment of Assets, in order to assess whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
As the impairment of assets has been identified as both a key source of estimation uncertainty and a critical accounting judgement, further details around the specific judgements and estimates can be seen in Note 3.
If any indication of impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine if there is any impairment loss.
Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, irrespective of whether there are any indicators of impairment.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value with reference to pre-tax discount rates that reflect the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount is estimated to be less than the carrying amount of the asset, the carrying amount is impaired to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the CGU on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
Impairment losses and reversals are recognised immediately within administrative expenses within the income statement unless it is considered to be an exceptional item.
171 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in the SOCI.
Both current and past service costs are the amounts recognised in the income statement, reflecting the expense associated with the individuals.
Current service cost represents the increase in the present value of the scheme liabilities expected to arise from employee service in the current period.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested.
Gains and losses on curtailments or settlements are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the curtailment or settlement occurs.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds which is only recognised to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to receive it and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
To the extent that an economic benefit is available as a reduction in future contributions and there is a minimum funding requirement required of the Group, the economic benefit available as a reduction in contributions is calculated as the present value of the estimated future service cost in each year, less the estimated minimum funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual and benefits in that year.
Calculation of the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements in respect of defined benefit pension schemes requires a high level of judgement, as further explained in Note 3.
Defined benefit obligations arising from contractual obligations Where the Group takes on a contract and assumes the obligation to contribute variable amounts to the defined benefit pension scheme throughout the period of the contract, the Groups share of the defined benefit obligation less its share of the pension scheme assets that it will fund over the period of the contract is recognised as a liability at the start of the contract with a corresponding amount being recognised as an intangible asset.
The intangible asset, which reflects the Groups right to manage and operate the contract, is amortised over the contract period.
The Groups share of the scheme assets and liabilities is calculated by reducing the scheme assets and liabilities by a franchise adjustment.
The franchise adjustment represents the estimated amount of scheme deficit that will be funded outside the contract period.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of pension obligations are recognised within Other Comprehensive Income.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange risk and price risk, including currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity future contracts.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are given in Note 32.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of firm commitments cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Both at the inception of the hedge and on a periodic basis, the Group assesses whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Derivatives, which mature within 12 months, are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and movements in the hedging and translation reserve in equity are detailed in the SOCI and described in Note 32.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group fide-designates the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
172 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of current tax expense and deferred tax expense.
Current tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which these items can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction other than a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority where the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Share based payment Where the fair value of share options requires the use of a valuation model, fair value is measured by use of Binomial Lattice, BlackScholes or Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of scheme, as set out in Note 37.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take account of market conditions applicable to theoption.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise service spares, parts awaiting installation and work in progress for projects undertaken for customers where payment is received on completion.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
173 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at cost being the same as fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less any provision for impairment, to ensure that amounts recognised represent the recoverable amount.
A provision for impairment arises where there is evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due, which is achieved by creating an allowance for doubtful debts recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses.
Determining whether a trade receivable is impaired requires judgement to be applied based on the information available at each reporting date.
Key indicators of impairment include disputes with customers over commercial positions, or where debtors have significant financial difficulties such as historic default of payments or information that suggests bankruptcy or financial reorganisation are a reasonable possibility.
The majority of contracts entered into by the Group are with government organisations and therefore historic levels of default are relatively low and as a result the risks associated with this judgement are not considered to be significant.
When a trade receivable is expected to be uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance for doubtful debts.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or written off are credited against administrative expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
This definition is also used for the consolidated cash flow statement.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at fair value or, if lower, at the present value of minimum lease payments determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Total rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Loans Loans are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest-rate method.
Accrued interest is recorded separately from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
Loans are described as non-recourse loans and classified as such only if no Group company other than the relevant borrower has an obligation, under a guarantee or other arrangement, to repay the debt.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation to make a cash outflow as a result of a past event.
Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date when settlement is considered to be likely.
Onerous contract provisions OCPs arise when the unavoidable costs of meeting contractual obligations exceed the remuneration expected to be received.
Unavoidable costs include total contract costs together with a rational allocation of shared costs that can be directly linked to fulfilling contractual obligations which have been systematically allocated to OCPs on the basis of key cost drivers except where this is impracticable, where contract revenue is used as a proxy to activity.
The provision is calculated as the lower of the termination costs payable for an early exit and the expected net cost to fulfil the Group's unavoidable contract obligations.
Where a customer has an option to extend a contract and it is likely that such an extension will be made, the expected net cost arising during the extension period, is included within the calculation.
However, where a profit can be reasonably expected in the extension period, no credit is taken on the basis that such profits are uncertain given the potential for the customer to either not extend or offer an extension under lower pricing terms.
Further details of the judgements can be seen in Note 3.
174 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Net investments in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Groups net investment in foreign operations are initially recognised in equity and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve and reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
Dividends payable Dividends are recorded in the Groups consolidated financial statements in the period in which they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Segmental information Segmental information is based on internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The CODM is considered to be the Board of Directors as a body.
Segmental revenue is analysed on an external basis.
Inter-segment revenue is not presented as it is not significant in the context of revenue as a whole.
Net finance costs are not presented for each operating segment as they are reviewed on a consolidated basis by the CODM.
Specific corporate expenses are allocated to the corresponding segments.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables excluding corporation tax recoverable and any retirement benefit asset.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables and retirement benefit obligations.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 2 above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
As described below, many of these areas of judgement also involve a high level of estimation uncertainty.
Prior year restatement: Change in accounting policy The accounting policy regarding the classification of cost items within cost of sales and administrative expenses was changed in the year.
Judgement was applied in reaching the conclusion that it provides more relevant financial results to exclude these amounts from the underlying transactions of trading operations.
Further details are provided in Note 2.
Use of Alternative Performance Measures: Operating profit before exceptional items IAS1 requires material items to be disclosed separately in a way that enables users to assess the quality of a companys profitability.
In practice, these are commonly referred to as exceptional items, but this is not a concept defined by IFRS and therefore there is a level of judgement involved in arriving at an Alternative Performance Measure which excludes such exceptional items.
We consider items which are material and outside of the normal operating practice of the company to be suitable for separate presentation.
Further details can be seen in Note 11.
The segmental analysis of continuing operations in Note 5 includes the additional performance measure of Trading Profit on continuing operations which is reconciled to reported operating profit in that note.
The Group uses Trading Profit as an alternative measure to reported operating profit by making several adjustments.
Firstly, Trading Profit excludes exceptional items, being those we consider material and outside of the normal operating practice of the company to be suitable of separate presentation and detailed explanation.
Secondly, amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisitions are excluded, because these charges are based on judgments about the value and economic life of assets that, in the case of items such as customer relationships, would not be capitalised in normal operating practice.
The CODM reviews the segmental analysis for continuing operations together with discontinued operations.
175 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Provisions for onerous contracts Determining the carrying value of onerous contract provisions requires assumptions and complex judgements to be made about the future performance of the Groups contracts.
The level of uncertainty in the estimates made, either in determining whether a provision is required, or in the calculation of a provision booked, is linked to the complexity of the underlying contract and the form of service delivery.
Due to the level of uncertainty and combination of variables associated with those estimates there is a significant risk that there could be material adjustment to the carrying amounts of onerous contract provisions within the next financial year.
Major sources of uncertainty which could result in a material adjustment within the next financial year are: The ability of the company to maintain or improve operational performance to ensure costs or performance related penalties are in line with expected levels.
Volume driven revenue and costs being within the expected ranges.
The outcome of matters dependent on the behaviour of the customer, such as a decision to extend a contract where it has the unilateral right to do so.
The outcome of open claims made by or against a customer regarding contractual performance.
The ability of suppliers to deliver their contractual obligations on time and on budget.
In the current year material revisions have been made to historic provisions, which have led to a charge to contract provisions of 62.0m, including 0.5m in relation to new provisions, and releases of 43.4m.
Further details are provided in the Finance Review within the Strategic Report.
All of these revisions have resulted from triggering events in the current year, either through changes in contractual positions or changes in circumstances which could not have been reasonably foreseen at the previous balance sheet date.
To mitigate the level of uncertainty in making these estimates Management regularly compares actual performance of the contracts against previous forecasts and considers whether there have been any changes to significant judgements.
A detailed bottom up review of the provisions is performed as part of the Groups formal annual budgeting process.
The future range of possible outcomes in respect of those assumptions and significant judgements made to determine the carrying value of onerous contracts could result in either a material increase or decrease in the value of onerous contract provisions in the next financial year.
The extent to which actual results differ from estimates made at the reporting date depends on the combined outcome and timing of a large number of variables associated with performance across multiple contracts.
The individual provisions are discounted where the impact is assessed to be significant.
Discount rates used are calculated based on the estimated risk free rate of interest for the region in which the provision is located and matched against the ageing profile of the provision.
Rates applied are in the range of 0.72% and 1.95%.
Investigation by the Serious Fraud Office In November 2013, the UKs Serious Fraud Office announced that it had opened an investigation, which remains ongoing, into the Groups Electronic Monitoring Contract.
We are cooperating fully with the Serious Fraud Offices investigation but it is not possible to predict the outcome.
However, disclosed in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties in this Report is a description of the range of possible outcomes in the event that the Serious Fraud Office decides to prosecute the individuals and or the Serco entities involved.
This was a critical matter in our assessment of the groups going concern and viability statements and in considering the necessary disclosure of contingent liabilities in Note 31.
Impairment of assets Identifying whether there are indicators of impairment for assets involves a high level of judgement and a good understanding of the drivers of value behind the asset.
At each reporting period an assessment is performed in order to determine whether there are any such indicators, which involves considering the performance of our business and any significant changes to the markets in which we operate.
We seek to mitigate the risk associated with this judgement by putting in place processes and guidance for the finance community and internal review procedures.
Determining whether assets with impairment indicators require an actual impairment involves an estimation of the expected value in use of the asset or CGU to which the asset relates.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of future cash flows and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, both of which involve considerable judgement.
The future cash flows are derived from approved forecasts, with the key assumptions being revenue growth, margins and cash conversion rates.
Discount rates are calculated with reference to the specific risks associated with the assets and are based on advice provided by external experts.
Our calculation of discount rates are performed based on a risk free rate of interest appropriate to the geographic location of the cash flows related to the asset being tested, which is subsequently adjusted to factor in local market risks and risks specific to Serco and the asset itself.
Discount rates used for internal purposes are post tax rates, however for the purpose of impairment testing in accordance with IAS36 Impairment of assets we calculate a pre-tax rate based on post tax targets.
A key area of focus in recent years has been in the impairment testing of goodwill as a result of the pressure on the results of the Group.
However, no impairment of goodwill was noted in the year ended 31 December 2017.
176 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Deferred tax Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised.
Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits.
Recognition has been based on forecast future taxable profits.
Further details on taxes are disclosed in Note 17.
Current tax Liabilities for tax contingencies require management judgement and estimates in respect of tax audits and also tax exposures in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Management is also required to make an estimate of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences that arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
Key judgement areas include the correct allocation of profits and losses between the countries in which we operate and the pricing of intercompany services.
Where management conclude that a tax position is uncertain, a current tax liability is held for anticipated taxes that are considered probable based on the current information available.
These liabilities can be built up over a long period of time but the ultimate resolution of tax exposures usually occurs at a point in time, and given the inherent uncertainties in assessing the outcomes of these exposures, these estimates are prone to change in future periods.
It is not currently possible to estimate the timing of potential cash outflow, but on resolution, to the extent this differs from the liability held, this will be reflected through the tax charge credit for that period.
Each potential liability and contingency is revisited on an annual basis and adjusted to reflect any changes in positions taken by the company, local tax audits, the expiry of the statute of limitations following the passage of time and any change in the broader tax environment.
On the basis of the currently available information, the Group does not anticipate a material change to the estimated liability in the short term.
Retirement benefit obligations Identifying whether the Group has a retirement benefit obligation as a result of contractual arrangements entered into requires a level of judgement, largely driven by the legal position held between the Group, the customer and the relevant pension scheme.
The Groups retirement benefit obligations and other pension scheme arrangements are covered in Note 33.
The calculation of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on material key assumptions including discount rates, mortality rates, inflation rates and future contribution rates.
In accounting for the defined benefit schemes, the Group has applied the following principles: The asset recognised for the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme is based on the assumption that the full surplus will ultimately be available to the Group as a future refund of surplus.
No foreign exchange item is shown in the disclosures as the non-UK liabilities are not material.
No pension assets are invested in the Groups own financial instruments or property.
Pension annuity assets are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date based on the share of the defined benefit obligation covered by the insurance contract.
177 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Discontinued operations The Global Services division, representing private sector BPO operations, was classified as a discontinued operation in 2015 and 2016.
The most significant part of this business was disposed in 2015, and the disposal of one of the two remaining elements of the offshore business was completed in March 2016 and the final element completed in December 2016.
The residual UK onshore private sector BPO operations were sold or exited in 2016 with the exception of one business consisting of a single contract, where disposal was completed in July 2017.
Total revenues for the remaining operations were 5.4m and the loss before exceptional items was 0.6m up to the point of disposal, therefore the results have been included in continuing operations in 2017 on the grounds of materiality.
The final contract was sold with no profit or loss on disposal, with a net cash outflow of 0.5m.
The results of the discontinued operations were as follows: 2016 For the year ended 31 December m Revenue 36.8 Expenses 40.1 Operating loss before exceptional items 3.3 Exceptional loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 2.8 Other exceptional operating items 11.4 Operating loss 17.5 Exceptional finance costs 0.4 Loss before tax 17.9 Tax charge on loss before exceptional items 0.1 Net loss attributable to discontinued operations presented in the income statement 18.0 Attributable to: Equity owners of the Company 18.1 Non-controlling interests 0.1 Included above are items classified as exceptional as they are considered to be material and outside of the normal course of business.
These are summarised as follows: 2016 For the year ended 31 December m Exceptional items arising on discontinued operations Exceptional loss on disposal 2.8 Other exceptional operating items Restructuring costs 1.1 Impairment of goodwill Movements in indemnities provided on business disposals 13.7 Movement in the fair value of assets transferred to held for sale 3.4 Other exceptional operating items 11.4 Exceptional operating items arising on discontinued operations 14.2 In 2016 a charge of 1.1m arose in discontinued operations in relation to the restructuring programme resulting from the Strategy Review.
This included redundancy payments, provisions and other charges relating to the exit of the UK private sector BPO business, external advisory fees and other incremental costs.
A charge of 13.7m arose in 2016 in relation to the movement in the value of indemnities provided on business disposals made in previous years.
These relate to changes in exchange rates where indemnities were provided in foreign currencies and increases to provisions for interest and penalties on any indemnities.
There were no changes in the value of these indemnities in 2017.
A charge of 0.4m was incurred in 2016 as a result of early payments to the US Private Placement USPP Noteholders following the disposal of the offshore private sector BPO business.
These charges were treated as exceptional finance costs as they were directly linked to the restructuring resulting from the Strategy Review.
178 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The net cash flows resulting from the discontinued operations were as follows: 2016 For the year ended 31 December m Net cash inflow from operating activities before exceptional items 5.5 Exceptional items Net cash inflow from operating activities 5.5 Net cash inflow from investing activities 12.5 Net cash outflow from financing activities 11.4 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents attributable to discontinued operations 6.6 5.
Segmental information The Groups operating segments reflecting the information reported to the Board in 2017 under IFRS8 Operating Segments are as set out below.
Reportable segments Operating segments UK & Europe Services for sectors including Citizen Services, Defence, Health, Justice & Immigration and Transport delivered to UK Government, UK devolved authorities and other public sector customers in the UK and Europe: Americas Services for sectors including Defence, Transport and Citizen Services delivered to US federal and civilian agencies, selected state and municipal governments and the Canadian Government: AsPac Services for sectors including Defence, Justice & Immigration, Transport, Health and Citizen Services in the Asia Pacific region including Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong: Middle East Services for sectors including Defence, Transport and Health in the Middle East region: and Corporate Central and head office costs.
Each operating segment is focused on a narrow group of customers in a specific geographic region and is run by a local management team which report directly to the CODM on a regular basis.
As a result of this focus, the sectors in each region have similar economic characteristics and are aggregated at the operating segment level in these financial statements.
During the year two existing divisions, UK Central Government and UK & Europe Local & Regional Government, were merged to form the new UK & Europe division UK&E with the management team structure and responsibilities altered to match the segment.
This note has been adjusted to reflect the impact of this, which has been to add together the results of the two former divisions in the comparative period.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 2.
Geographic information Non-current Non-current Revenue assets Revenue assets 2017 2017 2016 2016 Year ended 31 December m m m m United Kingdom 1,185.2 340.3 1,244.9 444.7 United States 623.6 273.3 632.9 309.1 Australia 559.3 143.2 593.1 146.0 Middle East 351.9 18.0 324.8 19.7 Other countries 235.3 21.7 215.3 20.4 Total 2,953.6 796.5 3,011.0 939.9 Non-current assets exclude financial instruments, deferred tax assets and loans to joint ventures and associates Revenues from external customers are attributed to individual countries on the basis of the location of the customer.
179 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued Information about major customers The Group has four major governmental customers which each represent more than 10% of Group revenues.
The customers revenues were 1,102.9m for the UK Government within the UK & Europe segment, 569.7m for the US Government within the Americas segment, 522.1m for the Australian Government within the AsPac segment and 238.4m for the Government of the United Arab Emirates within the Middle East segment.
In 2016 the Group had three major governmental customers which each represented more than 10% of Group revenues.
The customers revenues were 1,233.7m for the UK Government within the UK & Europe segment, 623.1m for the US Government within the Americas segment and 581.4m for the Australian Government within the AsPac segment.
The following is an analysis of the Groups revenue, results, assets and liabilities by reportable segment: Middle UK&E Americas AsPac East Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Revenue 1,334.7 688.0 579.0 351.9 2,953.6 Result Trading profit loss from continuing operations 4.5 39.8 35.1 16.2 41.6 54.0 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 3.0 1.4 4.4 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 4.5 36.8 33.7 16.2 41.6 49.6 Exceptional profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 0.3 0.3 Other exceptional operating items 11.9 0.3 7.4 0.1 24.2 19.9 Operating profit loss 16.7 36.5 26.3 16.3 65.8 30.0 Investment revenue 7.6 Finance costs 19.2 Other gains 0.7 Profit before tax 19.1 Tax charge 14.0 Tax on exceptional items 5.0 Profit for the year from continuing operations 0.1 Trading profit loss is defined as operating profit loss before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Exceptional items incurred by the Corporate segment are not allocated to other segments.
Such items may represent costs that will benefit the wider business.
180 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Middle UK&E Americas AsPac East Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m m Supplementary information Share of profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and tax 26.6 0.8 0.1 27.3 Depreciation of plant, property and equipment 14.0 3.2 4.9 0.8 1.4 24.3 Impairment of plant, property and equipment 0.1 0.1 Total depreciation and impairment of plant, property and equipment 13.9 3.2 4.9 0.8 1.4 24.2 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 3.0 1.4 4.4 Exceptional impairment and write down of intangible assets arising on acquisition 6.1 6.1 Amortisation of other intangible assets 1.1 1.5 4.8 0.2 13.8 21.4 Exceptional impairment of other intangible assets 2.8 2.8 Total amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 1.1 4.5 12.3 0.2 16.6 34.7 Segment assets Interests in joint ventures and associates 13.5 0.4 0.4 14.3 Other segment assets 445.9 391.3 223.4 112.0 133.2 1,305.8 Total segment assets 459.4 391.3 223.8 112.4 133.2 1,320.1 Unallocated assets 192.7 Consolidated total assets 1,512.8 Segment liabilities Segment liabilities 368.5 128.6 148.5 80.7 142.0 868.3 Unallocated liabilities 337.3 Consolidated total liabilities 1,205.6 The Corporate segment assets and liabilities include balance sheet items which provide benefit to the wider Group, including defined benefit pension schemes and corporate intangible assets.
181 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued Middle UK&E Americas AsPac East Corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2016 restated m m m m m m Revenue 1,375.1 691.4 619.7 324.8 3,011.0 Result Trading profit loss from continuing operations 84.5 6.4 34.2 18.8 40.3 103.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on acquisition 0.3 2.8 2.0 5.1 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 84.2 3.6 32.2 18.8 40.3 98.5 Exceptional profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 4.4 0.4 1.9 2.9 Other exceptional operating items 25.9 0.9 32.4 59.2 Operating profit loss 62.7 3.6 31.7 18.8 74.6 42.2 Investment revenue 9.3 Finance costs 21.9 Profit before tax 29.6 Tax charge 15.8 Tax on exceptional items 3.1 Profit for the year from continuing operations 16.9 Trading profit loss is defined as operating loss profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
During the year two existing divisions, UK Central Government and UK & Europe Local & Regional Government, were merged to form the new UK & Europe division.
This note has been adjusted to reflect the impact of this, which has been to add together the results of the two former divisions.
Supplementary information Share of profits in joint ventures and associates, net of interest and tax 31.3 2.0 0.1 33.4 Depreciation of plant, property and equipment 15.0 3.1 4.5 0.9 1.3 24.8 Impairment of plant, property and equipment 0.3 0.4 0.7 Total depreciation and impairment of plant, property and equipment 15.3 3.1 4.9 0.9 1.3 25.5 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 0.3 2.8 1.3 4.4 Impairment and write down of intangible assets arising on acquisition 0.7 0.7 Amortisation of other intangible assets 0.6 1.5 3.3 0.7 15.7 21.8 Total amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 0.9 4.3 5.3 0.7 15.7 26.9 Segment assets Interests in joint ventures and associates 12.3 1.7 0.4 14.4 Other segment assets 467.0 428.8 252.1 108.7 228.6 1,485.2 Total segment assets 479.3 428.8 253.8 109.1 228.6 1,499.6 Unallocated assets, including assets held for sale 265.0 Consolidated total assets 1,764.6 Segment liabilities Segment liabilities 442.9 140.7 182.8 79.3 139.7 985.4 Unallocated liabilities, including liabilities held for sale 380.4 Consolidated total liabilities 1,365.8 The Corporate segment assets and liabilities include balance sheet items which provide benefit to the wider Group, including defined benefit pension schemes and corporate intangible assets.
182 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 6.
List of principal undertakings The following are considered to be the principal undertakings of the Group as at the year end: Principal subsidiaries 2017 2016 United Kingdom Serco Limited 100% 100% Australia Serco Australia Pty Limited 100% 100% USA Serco Inc. 100% 100% Principal joint ventures and associates 2017 2016 United Kingdom AWE Management Limited 24.5% 24.5% United Kingdom Merseyrail Services Holding Company Limited 50% 50% United Kingdom Northern Rail Holdings Limited 50% 50% A full list of subsidiaries and related undertakings is included in the Appendix on pages 234 to 236 which form part of the financial statements.
Joint ventures and associates AWE Management Limited AWEML, Merseyrail Services Holding Company Limited MSHCL and Northern Rail Holdings Limited NRHL were the only equity accounted entities which were material to the Group during the year or prior year.
Dividends of 17.1m 2016: 19.6m, 7.3m 2016: 7.3m and 1.8m 2016: 10.0m respectively were received from these companies in the year.
The Northern Rail franchise ended on 31 March 2016.
Summarised financial information of AWEML, MSHCL, NRHL and an aggregation of the other equity accounted entities in which the Group has an interest is as follows: 31 December 2017 Group Group portion portion of of other AWEML MSHCL NRHL material joint joint venture 100% of 100% of 100% of ventures and arrangements results results results associates and associates Total Summarised financial information m m m m m m Revenue 951.8 155.7 0.3 311.2 45.5 356.7 Operating profit 90.8 17.8 3.8 33.0 1.4 34.4 Net investment revenue finance costs 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Income tax charge 19.2 3.9 0.5 6.9 0.1 7.0 Profit from continuing operations 72.2 13.7 3.3 26.0 1.3 27.3 Other comprehensive income 2.0 1.0 0.1 0.9 Total comprehensive income 72.2 15.7 3.3 27.0 1.2 28.2 Non-current assets 665.6 8.7 167.5 2.2 169.7 Current assets 197.3 43.5 5.2 72.7 14.5 87.2 Current liabilities 179.0 37.0 2.0 63.4 13.0 76.4 Non-current liabilities 664.3 1.6 163.5 2.7 166.2 Net assets 19.6 13.6 3.2 13.3 1.0 14.3 Proportion of group ownership 24.5% 50.0% 50.0% Carrying amount of investment 4.8 6.8 1.6 13.3 1.0 14.3 Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
183 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Joint ventures and associates continued 31 December 2017 continued Group Group portion portion of of other AWEML MSHCL NRHL material joint joint venture 100% of 100% of 100% of ventures and arrangements results results results associates and associates Total m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 77.2 33.6 6.0 38.7 2.5 41.2 Current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 8.3 1.9 0.1 2.9 0.6 3.5 Non-current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 2.7 2.7 Depreciation and amortisation 2.2 1.1 1.4 2.5 Interest income 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 Interest expense 0.3 0.2 0.2 Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
The financial statements of MSHCL are for a period which is different from that of the Group, being for the 52 week period ended 6 January 2018 2016: 52 week period ended 7 January 2017.
The 52 week period reflects the joint ventures internal reporting structure and is sufficiently close so as to not require adjustment to match that of the Group.
The NRHL franchise ended on 31 March 2016, with the results reflected in year ended 31 December 2017 reflecting the ongoing post contract negotiations.
Certain employees of the groups headed by AWEML and MSHCL are members of sponsored defined benefit pension schemes.
Given the significance of the schemes to understanding the position of the entities the following key disclosures are made: Main assumptions: 2017 AWEML MSHCL Rate of salary increases % 2.2% 3.1% Inflation assumption CPI % 2.2% 2.2% Discount rate % 2.6% 2.5% Post-retirement mortality: Current male industrial pensioners at 65 years 22.9 N A Future male industrial pensioners at 65 years 25.2 N A Retirement benefit funding position 100% of results m m Present value of scheme liabilities 2,233.3 304.4 Fair value of scheme assets 1,569.1 193.9 Net amount recognised 664.2 110.5 Members share of deficit 44.2 Franchise adjustment 66.3 Related asset, right to reimbursement 664.2 Net retirement benefit obligation The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
AWEML is not liable for any deficiency in the defined benefit pension scheme under current contractual arrangements.
The deficit reflected in the financial statements of MSHCL covers only that portion of the deficit that is expected to be funded over the term of the franchise arrangement the entity operates under.
In addition, the defined benefit position reflects an adjustment in respect of funding required to be provided by employees.
184 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 31 December 2016 Group Group portion portion of of other AWEML MSHCL NRHL material joint joint venture 100% of 100% of 100% of ventures and arrangements results results results associates and associates Total Summarised financial information m m m m m m Revenue 968.1 150.3 132.7 437.5 43.3 480.8 Operating profit 72.9 18.9 13.2 37.4 3.3 40.7 Net investment revenue finance costs 0.2 1.3 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.6 Income tax charge credit 11.3 3.7 3.4 6.8 0.1 6.7 Profit from continuing operations 61.8 13.9 9.9 30.1 3.3 33.4 Other comprehensive income 34.0 0.8 17.4 1.6 15.8 Total comprehensive income 61.8 47.9 10.7 47.5 1.7 49.2 Non-current assets 1,097.0 12.5 275.1 3.2 278.3 Current assets 149.3 32.8 14.2 60.1 16.0 76.1 Current liabilities 133.9 31.9 10.7 54.2 14.0 68.2 Non-current liabilities 1,095.2 0.9 268.7 3.1 271.8 Net assets 17.2 12.5 3.5 12.3 2.1 14.4 Proportion of group ownership 33% 24.5% 50% 50% Carrying amount of investment 4.2 6.3 1.8 12.3 2.1 14.4 Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
Group Group portion portion of of other AWEML MSHCL NRHL material joint joint venture 100% of 100% of 100% of ventures and arrangements results results results associates and associates Total m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 72.4 21.1 14.5 35.4 4.7 40.1 Current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 7.0 2.3 0.5 3.1 0.9 4.0 Non-current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 0.6 0.3 3.0 3.3 Depreciation and amortisation 2.3 1.7 2.1 1.0 3.1 Interest income 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.2 Interest expense 1.3 0.6 0.1 0.7 Total results of the entity multiplied by the respective proportion of Group ownership.
Key disclosures with respect of the defined benefit pension schemes of material joint ventures and associates: Main assumptions: 2016 AWEML MSHCL Rate of salary increases % 2.3% 2.3% Inflation assumption CPI % 2.3% 2.3% Discount rate % 2.7% 2.7% Post-retirement mortality: Current male industrial pensioners at 65 years 22.8 N A Future male industrial pensioners at 65 years 24.9 N A AWEML MSHCL Retirement benefit funding position 100% of results m m Present value of scheme liabilities 2,556.0 275.7 Fair value of scheme assets 1,460.9 171.1 Net amount recognised 1,095.1 104.6 Members share of deficit 62.8 Franchise adjustment 41.8 Related asset, right to reimbursement 1,095.1 Net retirement benefit obligation The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
185 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 8.
Acquisitions On 26 January 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of BTP Systems, LLC, for consideration of US Dollar $20.5m in cash.
Further details on this post year-end transaction are provided in Note 40.
The Group signed a revised Business Purchase Agreement BPA on 13 February 2018 with the Special Managers and Provisional Liquidators acting on behalf of the relevant Carillion plc subsidiaries to acquire a portfolio of selected UK health facilities management contracts.
The portfolio has annual revenues of approximately 90m and a weighted average remaining term of 14 years.
Upon the receipt by the Special Managers and Provisional Liquidators of the requisite third party consents, each individual contract will be transferred to Serco on a cash-free, debt-free basis, with the consideration to be paid in instalments and to be satisfied using Sercos existing financing facilities.
If all the contracts are transferred to Serco under the revised BPA process, the total consideration payable would be 29.7m.
The consideration payable is lower than the amount of 47.7m announced on 13 December 2017 in respect of substantially the same contracts that were subject to the initial BPA signed with Carillion plc at that date.
The change in consideration reflects the Groups re-evaluation of potential liabilities, indemnities, warranties and the additional working capital investment required as a result of Carillions liquidation.
The financial effects of this transaction have not been recognised at 31 December 2017.
As consents are required for each individual contract to be transferred and therefore acquired, at the time the financial statements were authorised for issue no legal transfer or control of assets had taken place and so no disclosures have been made in respect of the assets and liabilities being acquired.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities will be determined at the date when contracts are acquired.
It is also not yet possible to provide detailed information about each class of acquired receivables and any contingent liabilities in respect of the acquired contracts.
On 24 August 2017 the Group acquired 50% of the issued share capital of Serco Sodexo Defence Services Pty Ltd SSDS for 1.6m, obtaining full control.
SSDS was previously a 50% owned joint venture accounted for on an equity accounting basis.
The business has a contract with the Australian Defence Forces Joint Logistics Command relating to the operation of the Defence Forces national clothing stores and strengthens the financial performance of the AsPac division.
As a result of the increase in ownership from 50% to 100% the Group fair valued the existing 50% shareholding held at 0.2m, with the resulting uplift in value of 0.7m being recorded in Other gains, outside of operating results.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below: Provisional fair value m Intangible assets, excluding goodwill 0.9 Trade and other receivables 1.6 Deferred tax assets 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents 3.1 Trade and other payables 3.3 Provisions 1.7 Acquisition date fair value of consideration transferred 1.6 Satisfied by: Cash 0.4 Deferred consideration 1.2 Total consideration 1.6 The net cash inflow as a result of the acquisition was 2.7m, being 3.1m cash acquired less 0.4m consideration paid.
No acquisition related costs were incurred.
The additional stake in SSDS contributed 3.8m and 0.7m to operating profit before exceptional items in the period from acquisition to 31 December 2017.
Had the acquisition taken place on 1 January 2017 Group revenue and operating profit before exceptional items for the year would have increased by 4.2m and 0.6m respectively, taking total Group revenue to 2,957.8m and total Group operating profit before exceptional items to 50.2m.
Cash payments were made in the year relating to historic acquisitions.
The total impact of acquisitions in the year to the Groups cash flow position was as follows: m Cash and cash equivalents in SSDS 3.1 Cash payments in respect of SSDS consideration 0.4 Deferred consideration paid in respect of Anglia Support Partnership 1.2 Net cash inflow arising on acquisitions in the year 1.5 186 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 9.
Disposals A summary of the disposals taking place in the year ended 31 December 2017 were as follows: Profit loss on disposal m Cash flow m Disposal of Service Glasgow LLP 6.7 Disposal of final remaining UK onshore private sector BPO contract 0.5 Impact of historic transactions 0.3 0.1 0.3 7.1 There were no disposals of continuing operations in 2016, the profit on disposal of 2.9m related to transactions completing in prior years.
In December 2017 the Groups interest in Service Glasgow LLP was disposed of, resulting in a net cash outflow of 6.7m with no profit or loss on disposal.
Further details are provided below.
Service Glasgow LLP m Inventories 0.9 Trade and other receivables 4.7 Cash and cash equivalents 6.7 Trade and other payables 9.9 Provisions 0.5 Net assets disposed 1.9 No profit or loss was made on the disposal: Service Glasgow LLP m Consideration 1.6 Less: Net assets disposed 1.9 Non-controlling interests disposed of 0.3 Income statement impact of disposal The net cash inflow arising on disposal of discontinued operations and the impact on Net Debt is as follows: Service Glasgow LLP m Consideration 1.6 Less: Deferred consideration 1.6 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 6.7 Net cash flow on disposal and movement in Net Debt 6.7 10.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December m m Revenue from service contracts, being revenue as disclosed in the consolidated income statement 2,953.6 3,011.0 Investment revenue Note 14 7.6 9.3 Operating lease income 2.4 0.8 Total revenue as defined in IAS18 2,963.6 3,021.1 187 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are items of financial performance that are outside normal operations and are material to the results of the Group either by virtue of size or nature.
As such, the items set out below require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Exceptional items arising on discontinued operations are disclosed on the face of the income statement within the loss attributable to discontinued operations, of which there are none in 2017 2016: charge of 3.4m, whereas those arising on continuing operations are disclosed on the face of the income statement within exceptional operating items.
Further information regarding the exceptional items arising on discontinued operations in 2016 can be seen in Note 4.
Exceptional gain on disposal of subsidiaries and operations The exceptional net gain on disposals is included in Note 9.
Other exceptional operating items arising on continuing operations 2017 2016 For the year ended 31 December m m Impairment of goodwill 17.8 Restructuring costs 28.6 17.2 Aborted transaction costs 0.1 Costs associated with UK Government review 0.4 0.1 Release of UK frontline clinical health contract provisions 0.4 0.6 Settlement of defined benefit pension obligations 10.3 10.7 Impairment of interest in joint venture and related loan balances 4.5 13.9 Impairment of AsPac customer lists 6.1 Other exceptional operating items 19.9 59.2 Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that there is a risk that it could be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each cash generating unit CGU is based on value in use calculations derived from forecast cash flows based on past experience, adjusted to reflect market trends, economic conditions, the Groups strategy and key risks.
These forecasts include an estimated level of new business wins and contract attrition and an assumption that the final year forecast continues into perpetuity at a CGU specific terminal growth rate.
The terminal growth rates are provided by external sources and are based on the long-term inflation rates of the geographic market in which the CGUs operate and therefore do not exceed the average long-term growth rates forecast for the individual markets.
In 2016, goodwill of 17.8m arose following the acquisition of Orchard & Shipman Glasgow Limited, the Groups subcontractor on the COMPASS contract, providing accommodation to asylum seekers in Scotland and Northern Ireland on behalf of the Home Office.
This goodwill was then immediately impaired as the CGU is forecast to be loss making and therefore the asset cannot be supported.
The annual impairment testing of CGUs in 2017 has identified no other impairment of goodwill.
The Group is incurring costs in relation to restructuring programmes resulting from the Strategy Review.
These costs include redundancy payments, provisions, external advisory fees and other incremental costs, including in 2017 2.8m of intangible asset impairment 2016: nil.
Due to the nature and scale of the impact of the transformation phase of the Strategy Review the incremental costs associated with this programme are considered to be exceptional.
Costs associated with the restructuring programme resulting from the Strategy Review must meet the following criteria: that they are directly linked to the implementation of the Strategy Review: they are incremental costs as a result of the activity: and they are non-business as usual costs.
In 2017, a charge of 28.6m 2016: 17.2m arose in relation to the restructuring programme resulting from the Strategy Review.
The Strategy Review is discussed in more detail in the Strategic Report on page 16.
Non-exceptional restructuring charges are incurred by the business as part of normal operational activity, which in the year totalled 11.1m 2016: 6.7m.
We expect restructuring costs of approximately 35m to be incurred in 2018 which will be treated as exceptional.
The disposal of the Environmental and Leisure businesses was aborted in 2015 and during 2016 costs related to the aborted transaction were finalised, resulting in a charge of nil 2016: 0.1m.
In 2017, there were exceptional costs totalling 0.4m 2016: 0.1m associated with the UK Government reviews and the programme of Corporate Renewal.
These costs were treated as exceptional when the matter first arose and consistent treatment is applied in 2017.
In 2017 there were releases of provisions of 0.4m 2016: 0.6m which were previously charged through exceptional items in relation to the exit of the UK Frontline Clinical Health contracts.
188 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements An exceptional charge of 10.7m arose in 2016 in respect of the bulk transfer of a number of employees that are being transferred from the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS to the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme.
This transfer was legally agreed in December 2016 at which point all obligations of SPLAS to pay retirement benefits for these individuals were eliminated and as a result a settlement charge of 10.7m arose.
In 2017 a new agreement was reached with the UK Government to transfer out the scheme members on an individual basis and the 2016 legal and commercial arrangements were cancelled by consent of all parties.
As a result of the changes, the impact of the transfer was treated as an experience gain adjustment through other comprehensive income and the majority of the provision made in 2016 was reversed, resulting in a 10.3m credit to exceptional items.
In 2016 a review of a joint ventures cash flow projections led to the impairment of certain equity interests and associated receivables balances, totalling 13.9m.
The impairment was outside of the normal course of business and of a significant value, and was therefore considered to be an exceptional item.
In the year ended 31 December 2017 payments of 4.5m were received against the impaired loan.
The likelihood of further receivables remains uncertain.
As a result of contracts coming to the end of their natural lives and no significant new contracts being awarded by the customer, the remaining customer relationship intangible assets of the DMS Maritime Pty Limited business acquired in 2012 were impaired, totalling 6.1m.
Tax impact of above items Exceptional tax for the year was a tax charge of 5.0m 2016: 3.1m credit comprising a 2.3m credit on exceptional items within operating profit and a 7.3m charge in respect of other exceptional tax items.
Exceptional costs of 19.6m only gave rise to a credit of 2.3m, as the majority of these costs were incurred in the UK where they only impact our unrecognised deferred tax in relation to losses.
The other exceptional tax items relate to two matters, the first is the impact on tax of the pension buy-in disclosed in Note 33 which led to a 95.0m reduction in the IFRS valuation of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and consequently a deferred tax charge to the income statement of 16.1m.
Movements in the valuation of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and the associated deferred tax impact are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income SOCI and do not flow through the income statement, therefore do not impact profit before tax or the tax charge.
However, the net amount of deferred tax recognised in the balance sheet relates to both the pension accounting and other timing differences, such as recoverable losses.
As the net deferred tax balance sheet position is at the level supported by future profit forecasts, the decrease in the deferred tax liability associated with the pension scheme with the benefit reported in the SOCI leads to a corresponding decrease in the deferred tax asset to match the future profit forecasts.
Such a reduction in the deferred tax asset therefore leads to a charge to tax in the income statement.
Where deferred tax charges or releases are the result of movements in the pension scheme valuations rather than trading activity, these are excluded from the calculation of tax on underlying profit and the underlying effective tax rate, with the prior periods being restated to reflect this.
These amounted to 1.9m for 2017 2016: nil.
The second element is a credit of 8.8m related to legislative changes in the UK and the US which have impacted the value of deferred tax held on the balance sheet.
There is a reduction in the deferred tax liability that is held in connection with our US operations of 12.5m, as future US tax liabilities are expected to crystallise at lower US tax rates.
The fall in future expected US rates is primarily due to the enactment of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act in December 2017 which reduces the corporate income tax rate in the US from 35% to 21% effective from 1 January 2018.
In addition, there was a change in UK tax law in 2017.
This UK change will reduce the quantum of loss brought forward that can be used to offset taxable profits arising in a year, and will also enable losses carried forward in one company to be used to offset profits in another.
The combined impact of these UK law changes results in a tax charge of 3.7m.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December m m Research and development costs 1.7 3.6 Exceptional goodwill impairment Note 11 17.8 Exceptional impairment of intangible assets 8.9 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.4 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 0.3 0.8 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 24.2 25.5 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on acquisition 4.4 5.1 Amortisation, write down and impairment of intangible assets other 21.4 21.8 Exceptional net gain on disposal of subsidiaries and operations Note 9 0.3 2.9 Staff costs Note 13 1,525.0 1,526.8 Allowance for doubtful debts charged credited to income statement 0.7 0.1 Net foreign exchange charge 1.2 0.7 Movement on non-designated hedges and reclassified cash flow hedges 0.2 0.6 Lease payments recognised through operating profit 99.6 99.5 Operating lease income from sub-leases Note 10 2.4 0.8 189 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Operating profit continued Amounts payable to by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of audit and non-audit services to the Companys Auditor are shown below.
2017 2016 Year ended 31 December m m Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1.0 0.8 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.5 Total audit fees 1.2 1.3 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.2 Tax compliance services 0.1 Tax advisory services 0.2 Other services 0.1 0.3 Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.8 The 2016 non-audit fees represent those paid to the current Auditor subsequent to appointment in May 2016.
During 2016, prior to appointment, non-audit fees of 0.5m tax advisory services 0.2m, internal audit services 0.1m and other services 0.2m, were paid to KPMG LLP, bringing the total non-audit fees paid to KPMG LLP during the year to 1.3m.
Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed separately because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Details of the Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 101.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Staff costs The average number of persons employed by the Company including Executive Directors was: 2016 2017 number Year ended 31 December number restated UK & Europe 21,222 20,931 Americas 7,421 8,459 AsPac 8,739 9,514 Middle East 4,428 4,347 Unallocated 954 946 42,764 44,197 Headcount reported in the prior year has been restated from providing full time equivalent data to the monthly average number of persons employed at each month end.
The average number of persons employed includes all permanent employees and those with fixed term contracts.
It excludes self employed contractors and other casual workers.
190 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Aggregate remuneration of all employees based on the average number of employees reported above was: 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December m m Wages and salaries 1,326.5 1,332.3 Social security costs 102.9 100.3 Other pension costs Note 33 84.2 84.6 1,513.6 1,517.2 Share based payment expense Note 37 11.4 9.7 1,525.0 1,526.9 14.
Investment revenue 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December m m Interest receivable on other loans and deposits 2.6 3.6 Net interest receivable on retirement benefit obligations Note 33 3.8 4.7 Movement in discount on other debtors 1.2 1.0 7.6 9.3 15.
Finance costs 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December m m Interest payable on obligations under finance leases 1.3 1.6 Interest payable on other loans 14.0 15.6 Facility fees and other charges 3.0 3.5 Movement in discount on provisions 1.3 2.4 19.6 23.1 Foreign exchange on financing activities 0.4 1.2 19.2 21.9 191 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16.
Tax 16 a Income tax recognised in the income statement Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items 2017 items 2017 Total 2017 items 2016 items 2016 Total 2016 Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Current income tax Current income tax charge credit 14.6 2.3 12.3 12.1 1.3 10.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 0.8 3.6 3.6 Deferred tax Current year charge credit 2.1 7.3 9.4 1.2 1.8 0.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.9 1.9 1.1 1.1 14.0 5.0 19.0 15.8 3.1 12.7 The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit in the consolidated income statement as follows: Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items 2017 items 2017 Total 2017 items 2016 items 2016 Total 2016 Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Profit before tax 38.7 19.6 19.1 85.9 56.3 29.6 Tax calculated at a rate of 19.25% 2016: 20.00% 7.5 3.8 3.7 17.1 11.2 5.9 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 5.9 0.3 6.2 5.7 9.2 14.9 UK unprovided deferred tax 4.6 2.9 1.7 3.9 3.9 Other unprovided deferred tax 2.3 0.1 2.4 0.3 1.0 1.3 Effect of the use of unrecognised tax losses 1.2 0.5 1.7 3.1 3.1 Impact of changes in statutory tax rates on current income tax 1.3 2.2 0.9 Change in deferred tax as a result of legislative changes 8.8 8.8 Overseas rate differences 9.6 0.8 8.8 4.6 4.6 Other non-taxable income 0.9 0.5 1.4 0.7 0.4 1.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.9 - 2.9 2.5 2.5 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax on pensions 2.2 18.3 20.5 1.7 1.7 Adjustments in respect of equity accounted investments 5.2 - 5.2 6.7 6.7 Tax charge 14.0 5.0 19.0 15.8 3.1 12.7 Relates to costs that are not allowable for tax deduction under local tax law.
Non-deductible expenses in relation to exceptional items relate mainly to capital expenses, such as the impairments that are not deductible for tax.
Arises due to timing differences between when an amount is recognised in the income statement and when the amount is subject to UK tax.
In the current year, the Group has received tax deductions for amounts which have been charged to the income statement in previous periods in connection with items such as fixed assets.
The income tax charge for the year is based on the blended UK statutory rate of corporation tax for the period of 19.25% 2016: 20.00%.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
16 b Income tax recognised in the SOCI 2017 2016 Year ended 31 December m m Current tax Taken to retirement benefit obligations reserve Deferred tax Taken to retirement benefit obligations reserve 18.1 1.7 18.1 1.7 192 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 17.
Deferred tax Deferred income taxes are calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using local substantively enacted tax rates.
The movement in net deferred tax assets during the year was as follows: 2017 2016 m m At 1 January asset 20.3 19.9 Income statement charge credit 7.6 2.0 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income 18.1 1.7 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary 1.0 Exchange differences 2.8 0.1 At 31 December asset 34.6 20.3 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year was as follows: Temporary Share based differences payment and Retirement Other on assets employee benefit Tax temporary intangibles benefits schemes OCPs losses differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 36.5 12.0 17.6 17.8 10.3 34.3 20.3 Credited charged to income statement Note 16a 6.7 0.3 2.8 9.2 8.4 10.4 7.6 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income Note 16b 18.1 18.1 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary 0.1 0.9 1.0 Exchange differences 3.9 0.4 0.2 0.7 0.2 2.8 At 31 December 2017 25.8 12.2 2.5 7.9 18.7 24.1 34.6 Of the amount charged to the income statement, 0.1m 2016: credit of 0.3m has been taken to cost of sales in respect of the R&D Expenditure credit.
Other temporary differences include a deferred tax asset of nil in respect of derivative financial instruments 2016: 0.1m.
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the previous year was as follows: Temporary differences Share based Retirement Other on assets payment and benefit Tax temporary intangibles employee schemes OCPs losses differences Total m benefits m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 26.8 9.7 17.8 28.3 10.8 15.7 19.9 Credited charged to income statement Note 16a 0.9 0.5 1.5 14.7 0.6 16.2 2.0 Items recognised in equity and in other comprehensive income Note 16b 1.7 1.7 Exchange differences 8.8 1.8 0.4 4.2 0.1 2.4 0.1 At 31 December 2016 36.5 12.0 17.6 17.8 10.3 34.3 20.3 193 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Deferred tax continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2017 2016 m m Deferred tax liabilities 20.4 30.5 Deferred tax assets 55.0 50.8 34.6 20.3 As at the balance sheet date, the UK has a potential deferred tax asset of 177m 2016: 147m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has currently been recognised of 17.4m.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining asset net 160m based on current forecasts: additional asset recognition is contingent on further improvement in the UK profit forecast.
In the summer of 2016, UK Government announced a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% effective from April 2017.
Further measures enacted during 2016 cut the rate further from April 2020 to 17%.
These measures have reduced the UK 2017 current tax credit and will reduce the Group's future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax balance at 31 December 2017 has been calculated reflecting these rates.
In addition, the fall in the future expected US tax rates due to the enactment of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act in December 2017 has generated a 12.5m deferred tax credit in 2017 due to the calculation of the US deferred tax liability at 31 December 2017 using these reduced rates.
Losses of 0.1m 2016: 0.1m expire within 5 years, losses of 0.1m 2016 0.2m expire within 610 years, losses of 4.1m 2016 8.6m expire within 20 years and losses of 998.4m 2016 884.6m may be carried forward indefinitely.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share EPS have been calculated in accordance with IAS33 Earnings per Share.
The calculation of the basic and diluted EPS is based on the following data: 2017 2016 Number of shares millions millions Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,089.7 1,088.3 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Share options 44.9 37.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 1,134.6 1,125.6 At 31 December 2017 options over 236,616 2016: 246,818 shares were excluded from the weighted average number of shares used for calculating diluted earnings per share because their exercise price was above the average share price for the year and they were, therefore, anti-dilutive.
Due to the loss making position of the combined continuing and discontinued operations in 2016 and for continuing in 2017, the dilutive impact has not been separately disclosed for those measures of profitability.
194 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Earnings per share for continuing and discontinued operations Earnings Per share Earnings Per share 2017 amount 2017 2016 amount 2016 Basic EPS m pence m pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 0.2 0.02 1.2 0.11 Basic EPS excluding exceptional items Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 0.2 0.02 1.2 0.11 Add back exceptional items 19.6 1.80 70.9 6.51 Add back tax on exceptional items 5.0 0.46 3.1 0.28 Earnings excluding exceptional operating items for the purpose of basic EPS 24.4 2.24 66.6 6.12 Earnings per share for continuing operations Earnings Per share Earnings Per share 2017 amount 2017 2016 amount 2016 Basic EPS m pence m pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 0.2 0.02 16.9 1.55 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 0.05 Diluted EPS 0.2 0.02 16.9 1.50 Basic EPS excluding exceptional items Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 0.2 0.02 16.9 1.55 Add back exceptional items 19.6 1.80 56.3 5.17 Add back tax on exceptional items 5.0 0.46 3.1 0.28 Earnings excluding exceptional operating items for the purpose of basic EPS 24.4 2.24 70.1 6.44 Earnings per share discontinued Earnings Per share Earnings Per share 2017 amount 2017 2016 amount 2016 Basic EPS m pence m pence Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 18.1 1.66 Basic EPS excluding exceptional items Earnings for the purpose of basic EPS 18.1 1.66 Add back exceptional items 14.6 1.34 Earnings excluding exceptional operating items for the purpose of basic EPS 3.5 0.32 195 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Goodwill Accumulated Cost impairment losses Carrying amount m m m At 1 January 2016 799.1 289.2 509.9 Exchange differences 109.6 41.6 68.0 Acquisitions 17.8 17.8 Impairment exceptional 17.8 17.8 At 1 January 2017 926.5 348.6 577.9 Exchange differences 48.5 21.9 26.6 At 31 December 2017 878.0 326.7 551.3 Movements in the balance since the prior year-end can be seen as follows: Goodwill Goodwill balance Exchange balance Headroom on Headroom on 1 January Additions differences Impairment 31 December impairment impairment 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 analysis 2017 analysis 2016 m m m m m m m UK & Europe Justice & Immigration 49.6 49.6 127.4 126.3 Health 60.6 60.6 19.4 3.2 Direct Services & Europe 66.5 0.8 67.3 71.5 99.0 Americas 277.9 24.9 253.0 151.8 66.5 AsPac 112.4 1.6 110.8 231.6 203.2 Middle East 10.9 0.9 10.0 145.6 114.7 577.9 26.6 551.3 747.3 612.9 Included above is the detail of the headroom on the CGUs existing at the year-end which reflects where future discounted cash flows are greater than the underlying assets and includes all relevant cash flows, including where provisions have been made for future costs and losses.
The key assumptions applied in the impairment review are set out below: Discount rate Discount rate Terminal growth Terminal growth 2017 2016 rates 2017 rates 2016 % % % % UK & Europe Justice & Immigration 10.4 11.2 2.0 2.0 Health 10.4 11.2 2.0 2.0 Direct Services & Europe 11.7 12.5 2.0 2.0 Americas 10.5 12.3 2.4 2.4 AsPac 9.7 11.2 2.4 2.4 Middle East 10.8 10.7 2.5 2.2 Restated based on rates applied in impairment testing in the prior year.
196 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Discount rate Pre-tax discount rates, derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital have been used in discounting the projected cash flows.
These rates are reviewed annually with external advisers and are adjusted for risks specific to the market in which the CGU operates.
Short-term growth rates The annual impairment test is performed immediately prior to the year end, based initially on five year cash flow forecasts approved by senior management.
Short-term revenue growth rates used in each CGU five year plan are based on internal data regarding our current contracted position, the pipeline of opportunities and forecast growth for the relevant market.
Short-term profitability and cash conversion is based on our historic experiences and a level of judgement is applied to expected changes in both.
Where businesses have been poor performers in recent history, turnaround has only been assumed where a detailed and achievable plan is in place and all forecasts include cash flows relating to contracts where onerous contract provisions have been made.
Terminal growth rates The calculations include a terminal value based on the projections for the fifth year of the short-term plan, with a growth rate assumption applied which extrapolates the business into perpetuity.
The terminal growth rates are based on long-term inflation rates of the geographic market in which the CGUs operate and therefore do not exceed the average long-term growth rates forecast for the individual markets.
These are provided by external sources.
Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis has been performed for each key assumption, a 1% movement in discount rates and a 1% movement in terminal growth rates are considered to be reasonably possible.
The only CGU impacted by a reasonably possible change in a key assumption is Health where a 1% increase in discount rates and a 1% decrease in terminal growth rates would result in an impairment of 4.2m.
The breakeven point of Health goodwill impairment is a 0.8% increase in discount rate combined with a 0.8% decrease in terminal growth rate.
A reduction of 2.0m in the terminal year cash flows for the Health CGU would lead to the recoverable amount no longer exceeding the carrying value.
Any additional reduction in terminal year cash flows would result in an impairment of the goodwill of this CGU.
197 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Other intangible assets Acquisition related Other Internally generated Customer Licences and Software development relationships franchises and IT expenditure Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 67.6 0.3 120.6 55.7 244.2 Arising on acquisition 0.9 0.9 1.8 Eliminated on disposal 1.2 1.2 Additions from internal development 9.9 0.9 10.8 Additions from external acquisition 7.6 7.6 Disposals 0.1 13.4 0.1 13.6 Reclassification from to other intangible asset categories 0.2 0.2 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 Research and development expenditure credit 0.7 0.7 Exchange differences 3.4 2.2 0.4 6.0 At 31 December 2017 65.1 0.2 122.8 56.6 244.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2017 50.4 0.3 71.6 38.3 160.6 Arising on acquisition 0.9 0.9 Eliminated on disposal 1.1 1.1 Impairment charge 6.1 2.8 8.9 Amortisation charge internal development 11.8 5.7 17.5 Amortisation charge external 4.4 3.9 8.3 Disposals 0.1 13.0 0.1 13.2 Reclassification to property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 Exchange differences 2.4 0.1 1.5 0.3 4.3 At 31 December 2017 58.5 0.1 75.8 43.6 178.0 Net book value At 31 December 2017 6.6 0.1 47.0 13.0 66.7 198 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Acquisition related Other Internally generated Customer Licences and Software development relationships franchises and IT expenditure Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 51.9 1.0 110.2 59.1 222.2 Additions from internal development 14.0 1.1 15.1 Disposals 0.7 12.9 2.6 16.2 Reclassification from held for sale assets 6.2 0.1 6.3 Reclassification from to other intangible asset categories 0.3 0.1 3.3 3.5 Research and Development expenditure credit 0.2 0.2 Exchange differences 9.2 6.0 1.8 17.0 At 31 December 2016 67.6 0.3 120.6 55.7 244.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2016 33.1 0.9 62.9 35.5 132.4 Impairment charge 0.7 0.7 Amortisation charge internal development 17.0 4.8 21.8 Amortisation charge external 4.4 4.4 Disposals 0.7 12.0 2.6 15.3 Reclassification from held for sale assets 6.2 0.1 6.3 Exchange differences 6.0 3.7 0.6 10.3 At 31 December 2016 50.4 0.3 71.6 38.3 160.6 Net book value At 31 December 2016 17.2 49.0 17.4 83.6 Included in Software and IT and other internally generated development expenditure is an amount of 6.1m 2016: 8.7m in respect of leased intangibles.
Customer relationships are amortised over the average length of contracts acquired.
The Group is carrying 6.6m 2016: 17.2m in relation to Customer relationships.
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition consists of amortisation in relation to Customer relationships and Licences and franchises and totals 4.4m 2016: 4.4m.
The net book value of internally generated intangible assets as at 31 December 2017 was approximately 13.0m 2016: 17.4m in development expenditure and 34.3m 2016: 36.9m in software and IT.
199 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold ShortMachinery, motor land and leasehold vehicles, furniture Total buildings assets and equipment m m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 4.0 32.4 209.2 245.6 Arising on acquisition 0.4 0.4 Additions 0.5 2.0 20.8 23.3 Reclassification to other intangible assets 0.4 0.4 Disposals 2.5 30.6 33.1 Exchange differences 0.1 1.2 2.2 3.3 At 31 December 2017 4.6 30.3 197.6 232.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 2.5 22.8 151.0 176.3 Arising on acquisition 0.4 0.4 Charge for the year impairment 0.1 0.1 Charge for the year depreciation 0.2 3.2 20.9 24.3 Reclassification to other intangible assets 0.4 0.4 Disposals 1.0 29.7 30.7 Exchange differences 0.8 1.7 2.5 At 31 December 2017 2.7 23.8 140.8 167.3 Net book value At 31 December 2017 1.9 6.5 56.8 65.2 Freehold ShortMachinery, motor land and leasehold vehicles, furniture Total buildings assets and equipment m m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 4.0 29.8 209.7 243.5 Additions 1.8 15.6 17.4 Reclassification from held for sale assets 0.9 0.2 1.1 Disposals 3.2 31.8 35.0 Exchange differences 3.1 15.5 18.6 At 31 December 2016 4.0 32.4 209.2 245.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2016 2.3 20.7 147.3 170.3 Charge for the year - impairment 0.7 0.7 Charge for the year - depreciation 0.2 3.0 21.6 24.8 Reclassification to held for sale assets 0.2 0.2 0.4 Disposals 2.9 30.9 33.8 Exchange differences 2.2 12.5 14.7 At 31 December 2016 2.5 22.8 151.0 176.3 Net book value At 31 December 2016 1.5 9.6 58.2 69.3 The carrying amount of the Groups Machinery, motor vehicles, furniture and equipment includes an amount of 23.4m 2016: 27.9m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The carrying amount of the Groups Short-leasehold assets includes an amount of 0.1m 2016: 0.2m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
200 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 22.
Inventories 2017 2016 m m Service spares 13.0 17.0 Parts awaiting installation 1.9 1.0 Work in progress 2.5 4.4 17.4 22.4 23.
Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 Trade and other receivables: Non-current m m Loans receivable Note 28 25.7 22.4 Other investments 10.0 0.6 Other receivables 21.6 21.4 57.3 44.4 2017 2016 Trade and other receivables: Current m m Trade receivables 188.8 192.8 Accrued income and other unbilled receivables 213.3 228.4 Prepayments 49.8 56.3 Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts Note 24 2.7 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.6 Loans receivable Note 28 0.5 Security deposits 0.3 0.1 Other receivables 53.7 62.1 506.5 543.5 Total trade and other receivables held by the Group at 31 December 2017 amount to 563.8m 2016: 587.9m.
The Group has a receivables financing facility of 30.0m 2016: 30.0m, which was un-utilised at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: 7.7m utilised.
The unwinding of the facility by 7.7m in 2017 is reflected through a negative working capital movement in the year.
The management of trade receivables is the responsibility of the operating segments, although they report to Group on a monthly basis on debtor days, debtor ageing and significant outstanding debts.
The average credit period taken by customers is 23 days 2016: 23 days and no interest is charged on overdue amounts.
Each customer has an external credit score which determines the level of credit provided.
However, the majority of our customers have a sovereign credit rating as a result of being government organisations.
Of the trade receivables balance at the end of the year, 54.1m is due from agencies of the UK Government, the Groups largest customer, 33.1m from the Australian Government, 47.9m from the Government of the United Arab Emirates, and 13.8m from the US Government.
There are no other customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
Of the trade receivables balance at the end of 2016, 71.4m was due from agencies of the UK Government.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to trade receivables at the reporting date is the fair value of trade receivables.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
As at 31 December 2017, a total of 1.6m 2016: 2.8m of trade receivables held by the Group were considered to be impaired.
Impairments to trade receivables are based on specific estimated irrecoverable amounts and provisions on outstanding balances greater than a year old unless there is firm evidence that the balance is recoverable.
The total amount of the provision for the Group was 3.6m as of 31 December 2017 2016: 3.6m.
201 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Trade and other receivables continued 2017 2016 Ageing of trade receivables m m Neither impaired nor past due 144.3 143.0 Not impaired but overdue by less than 30 days 29.6 34.2 Not impaired but overdue by between 30 and 60 days 8.2 4.0 Not impaired but overdue by more than 60 days 8.7 12.4 Impaired 1.6 2.8 Allowance for doubtful debts 3.6 3.6 188.8 192.8 Of the total overdue trade receivable balance, 38% 2016: 53.2% relates to the UK, US or Australian governments, and a further 38% 2016: 15.7% relates to the government of the United Arab Emirates.
The total allowance for doubtful debts is greater than the assets identified as impaired due to provision being made for partial impairment of balances held within one of the ageing categories.
2017 2016 Movements on the Group allowance for doubtful debts m m At 1 January 3.6 11.3 Net charges and releases to income statement 0.7 0.1 Utilised 0.5 8.2 Exchange differences 0.2 0.6 At 31 December 3.6 3.6 Included in the current other receivables balance is a further 10.2m 2016: 19.2m due from agencies of the UK Government.
Contingent assets of 5.5m 2016: 5.6m are held within current other receivables in relation to insurance claims where it is probable that the Group will receive future payments.
Also included within current other receivables are capitalised bid costs of 6.2m 2016: 7.8m and phase in costs of 13.8m 2016: 13.8m that are realised as a part of the normal operating cycle of the Group.
These assets represent up-front investment in contracts which are expected to provide benefits over the life of those contracts.
Movements in the period were as follows: 2017 2016 Capitalised bid and phase in costs m m At 1 January 21.6 28.6 Additions 5.0 4.7 Amortisation 6.5 13.8 Exchange differences 0.1 2.1 At 31 December 20.0 21.6 24.
Long-term contracts 2017 2016 Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date m m Amounts due from long-term project-based contract customers included in trade and other receivables 2.7 Amounts due to long-term project-based contract customers included in provisions 13.6 10.0 13.6 7.3 Long-term project-based contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 153.5 226.3 Less: progress payments 167.1 233.6 13.6 7.3 As at 31 December 2017, the Group had nil 2016: nil of contract retentions held by customers.
202 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 25.
Cash and cash equivalents Other Other Sterling currencies Total Sterling currencies Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 m m m m m m Customer advance payments 0.2 0.2 1.0 1.0 Other cash and short-term deposits 79.6 32.3 111.9 149.4 27.4 176.8 Total cash and cash equivalents 79.6 32.5 112.1 149.4 28.4 177.8 Customer advance payments totalling 0.2m 2016: 1.0m are encumbered cash balances.
Cash and cash equivalents which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.
Trade and other payables 2017 2016 Trade and other payables: Current m m Trade payables 78.4 84.7 Other payables 71.1 92.9 Accruals 259.1 292.2 Deferred income 54.3 54.7 462.9 524.5 The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 33 days 2016: 32 days.
2017 2016 Trade and other payables: Non-current m m Other payables 28.7 16.8 Total trade and other payables held by the Group at 31 December 2017 amount to 491.6m 2016: 541.3m.
Obligations under finance leases Present value of Present value of Minimum lease minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments 2017 2017 2016 2016 Amounts payable under finance leases m m m m Within one year 9.1 8.5 13.1 12.3 Between one and five years 11.0 10.4 16.8 15.9 After five years 1.4 1.3 21.5 20.2 29.9 28.2 Less: future finance charges 1.3 1.7 Present value of lease obligations 20.2 20.2 28.2 28.2 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 8.5 8.5 12.3 12.3 Amount due for settlement after one year 11.7 11.7 15.9 15.9 Finance lease obligations are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
The Directors estimate that the fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
203 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Loans Total Total 2017 2016 m m Loans are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 31.8 9.2 Between one and two years 19.7 34.2 Between two and five years 105.0 137.5 After five years 89.3 96.1 245.8 277.0 Less: amount due for settlement within one year shown within current liabilities 31.8 9.7 Less: amounts shown in receivables Note 23 25.7 22.9 Amount due for settlement after one year 239.7 290.2 Included in loans repayable on demand or within one year are loan receivable amounts of nil 2016: 0.5m.
Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value 2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m Other loans 271.5 263.1 299.9 289.7 Loan receivables 25.7 25.7 22.9 22.9 245.8 237.4 277.0 266.8 The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using a market rate appropriate to the loan.
All loans are held at amortised cost.
Analysis of Net Debt The analysis below provides a reconciliation between the opening and closing positions in the balance sheet for liabilities arising from financing activities together with movements in cash loan receivables and derivatives relating to the items included in Net Debt.
There were no changes in fair value noted in either the current or prior year.
At 1 Reclassified At 31 January Cash as held Exchange Non-cash December 2017 flow for sale Acquisitions Disposals differences movements 2017 m m m m m m m m Loans payable 299.9 3.8 25.4 0.8 271.5 Obligations under finance leases 28.2 12.6 0.1 4.7 20.2 Liabilities arising from financing activities 328.1 16.4 25.5 5.5 291.7 Cash and cash equivalents 177.8 57.3 1.5 7.1 2.8 112.1 Loan receivables 22.9 0.6 3.4 25.7 Derivatives relating to Net Debt 18.1 5.3 12.8 Net Debt 109.3 41.5 1.5 7.1 17.4 2.1 141.1 At 1 Reclassified At 31 January Cash as held Exchange Non-cash December 2016 flow for sale Acquisitions Disposals differences movements 2016 m m m m m m m m Loans payable 381.9 135.8 52.8 1.0 299.9 Obligations under finance leases 43.8 16.7 0.2 0.4 0.5 28.2 Liabilities arising from financing activities 425.7 152.5 0.2 53.2 1.5 328.1 Cash and cash equivalents 323.6 153.7 0.1 7.8 177.8 Loan receivables 19.9 0.1 2.9 22.9 Derivatives relating to Net Debt 14.6 3.5 18.1 Net Debt 67.6 1.2 0.2 0.1 41.8 1.4 109.3 Acquisitions represent the net cash debt acquired on acquisition.
204 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 29.
Provisions Employee related Property Contract Other Total m m m m m At 1 January 2017 45.1 15.2 220.2 141.2 421.7 Arising on acquisition 1.7 1.7 Eliminated on disposal of subsidiary 0.5 0.5 Charged to income statement exceptional 4.5 2.7 0.1 7.3 Charged to income statement other 17.5 2.4 62.0 8.6 90.5 Released to income statement exceptional 0.9 1.3 0.4 10.5 13.1 Released to income statement other 4.9 1.4 43.0 9.0 58.3 Utilised during the year 4.9 3.1 69.3 5.0 82.3 Unwinding of discount 1.3 1.3 Exchange differences 2.4 0.2 2.6 3.1 8.3 At 31 December 2017 55.7 14.3 168.2 121.8 360.0 Analysed as: Current 17.1 4.4 68.0 59.0 148.5 Non-current 38.6 9.9 100.2 62.8 211.5 55.7 14.3 168.2 121.8 360.0 Contract provisions relate to onerous contracts which will be utilised over the life of each individual contract, up to a maximum of 7 years from the balance sheet date.
The present value of the estimated future cash outflow required to settle the contract obligations as they fall due over the respective contracts has been used in determining the provision.
In 2017, additional charges have been made in respect of future losses on a number of onerous contracts totalling 62.0m.
This increase related to revisions to existing OCPs of 61.5m and a new provision raised on one contract totalling 0.5m.
A full analysis is performed at least annually of the future profitability of all contracts with marginal performances and of the balance sheet items directly linked to these contracts.
Due to the significant size of the balance and the inherent level of uncertainty over the amount and timing of the related cash flows upon which onerous contract provisions are based, if the expected operational performance varies from the best estimates made at the year end, a material change in estimate may be required.
The key drivers behind operational performance is the level of activity required to be serviced, which is often directed by the actions of the UK Government, and the efficiency of Group employees and resources.
Employee related provisions are for long-term service awards and terminal gratuity liabilities which have been accrued and are based on contractual entitlement, together with an estimate of the probabilities that employees will stay until retirement and receive all relevant amounts.
There are also amounts included in relation to restructuring.
The provisions will be utilised over various periods driven by local legal or regulatory requirements, the timing of which is not certain.
Property provisions relate to leased properties which are either underutilised or vacant and where the unavoidable costs associated with the lease exceed the economic benefits expected to be generated in the future.
The provision has been calculated based on the discounted cash outflow required to settle the lease obligations as they fall due, with the longest running lease ending in April 2039.
Other provisions are held for indemnities given on disposed businesses, legal and other costs that the Group expects to incur over an extended period, in respect of past events.
These costs are based on past experience of similar items and other known factors and represent managements best estimate of the likely outcome and will be utilised with reference to the specific facts and circumstances, with the majority expecting to be settled by 31 December 2021.
205 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Capital and other commitments 2017 2016 Capital expenditure contracted but not provided m m Property, plant and equipment 0.9 10.4 Intangible assets 0.2 5.6 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2017 2016 m m Within one year 69.6 66.9 Between one and five years 148.0 127.6 After five years 130.7 126.1 348.3 320.6 31.
Contingent liabilities The Company has guaranteed overdrafts, finance leases, and bonding facilities of its joint ventures and associates up to a maximum value of 4.3m 2016: 20.4m.
The actual commitment outstanding at 31 December 2017 was 4.3m 2016: 17.9m.
The Company and its subsidiaries have provided certain guarantees and indemnities in respect of performance and other bonds, issued by its banks on its behalf in the ordinary course of business.
The total commitment outstanding as at 31 December 2017 was 227.1m 2016: 252.1m.
As we have disclosed before, we are under investigation by the Serious Fraud Office.
In November 2013, the UKs Serious Fraud Office announced that it had opened an investigation, which remains ongoing, into the Groups Electronic Monitoring Contract.
The Group is aware of other claims and potential claims which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to legal advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements, that it is unlikely that these matters will, in aggregate, have a material effect on the Groups financial position.
206 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 32.
Financial risk management 32 a Fair value of financial instruments i Hierarchy of fair value The classification of the fair value measurement falls into three levels, based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
The levels are as follows: Level 1: Inputs derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: I nputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Based on the above, the derivative financial instruments held by the Group at 31 December 2017 and the comparison fair values for loans and finance leases, are all considered to fall into Level 2.
Market prices are sourced from Bloomberg and third party valuations.
The valuation models incorporate various inputs including foreign exchange spot and forward rates and interest rate curves.
There have been no transfers between levels in the year.
The Group held the following financial instruments which fall within the scope of IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement at 31 December: Carrying amount Comparison Carrying amount Comparison measurement basis fair value measurement basis fair value Amortised Fair value Level 2 Amortised Fair value cost 2017 Level 2 2017 2017 cost 2016 Level 2 2016 Level 2 2016 m m m m m m Financial assets Financial assets current Cash and bank balances 112.1 112.1 177.8 177.8 Derivatives designated as FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts 4.5 4.5 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Cross currency swaps 5.7 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 0.4 Loans and receivables Trade receivables Note 23 188.8 188.8 192.8 192.8 Loan receivables Note 23 0.5 0.5 Security deposits Note 23 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates Note 23 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Financial assets non-current Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Cross currency swaps 3.6 14.2 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 Loans and receivables Loan receivables Note 23 25.7 25.7 22.4 22.4 Other investments Note 23 10.0 10.0 0.6 0.6 207 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued 32 a Fair value of financial instruments continued i Hierarchy of fair value continued Carrying amount Comparison Carrying amount Comparison measurement basis fair value measurement basis fair value Amortised Fair value - Level 2 Amortised Fair value cost 2017 Level 2 2017 2017 cost 2016 Level 2 2016 Level 2 2016 m m m m m m Financial liabilities current Derivatives designated as FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.1 0.6 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade payables Note 26 78.4 78.4 84.7 84.7 Loans Note 28 31.8 31.8 9.7 9.7 Obligations under finance leases Note 27 8.5 8.5 12.3 12.3 Financial liabilities non-current Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Loans Note 28 239.7 231.3 290.2 280.1 Obligations under finance leases Note 27 11.7 11.7 15.9 15.9 The Directors estimate that the carrying amounts of cash, trade receivables and trade payables approximate to their fair value due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
The fair values of loans and finance lease obligations are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the borrowing rate associated with the liability.
The fair value of derivatives is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach applying discount factors derived from observable market data to actual and estimated future cash flows.
Credit risk is considered in the calculation of these fair values.
ii Fair value of derivative financial instruments The fair valuation of derivative financial instruments results in a net asset of 12.8m 2016: net assets of 18.5m comprising non-current assets of 3.7m 2016: 14.2m, current assets of 10.3m 2016: 4.9m, current liabilities of 1.1m 2016: 0.6m and non-current liabilities of 0.1m 2016: nil.
Movement in fair Movement in fair value of derivatives value of derivatives designated in not designated in hedge accounting hedge accounting 1 January 2017 relationships relationships 31 December 2017 m m m m Currency swaps 14.2 4.9 9.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts 4.3 0.3 0.5 3.5 18.5 5.2 0.5 12.8 Movement in fair Movement in fair value of derivatives value of derivatives designated in not designated in hedge accounting hedge accounting 1 January 2016 relationships relationships 31 December 2016 m m m m Currency swaps 10.4 3.8 14.2 4.4 0.2 0.3 4.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts 14.8 4.0 0.3 18.5 The fair value of financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss is 1.1m 2016: 0.6m and relates to derivatives that are not designated in hedge accounting relationships.
The fair value of the derivatives and their credit risk adjusted fair value are not materially different, and are approximately equal to the amount contractually payable at maturity due to the short tenor of the instruments.
208 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 32 b Financial risk The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that financial and non-financial risks are monitored and managed within acceptable and known parameters.
The Board delegates authority to the executive team to manage financial risks.
The Groups treasury function acts as a service centre and operates within clearly defined guidelines and policies that are approved by the Board.
The guidelines and policies define the financial risks to be managed, specify the objectives in managing these risks, delegate responsibilities to those managing the risks and establish a control framework to regulate treasury activities to minimise operational risk.
32 c Liquidity risk i Credit facilities The Group maintains committed credit facilities to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity to maintain its ongoing operations.
As at 31 December, the Groups committed bank credit facilities and corresponding borrowings were as follows: Utilised for Total facility Amount Drawn bonding facility available 2017 2017 2017 2017 Currency m m m m Syndicated revolving credit facility Sterling 480.0 480.0 Utilised for Total facility Amount Drawn bonding facility available 2016 2016 2016 2016 Currency m m m m Sterling 480.0 480.0 Syndicated revolving credit facility On 31 March 2016, 368m of the Groups 480m revolving credit facility was extended to April 2020.
The remaining 112m matures in April 2019.
In addition to the banking facility the Group has outstanding US private placements of 260.7m 2016: 290.2m which will be repaid as bullet repayments between 2018 and 2024.
In addition to the bank and private placement facilities the Group has a 30.0m receivables financing facility 2016: 30.0m of which nil 2016: 7.7m was drawn at year end.
ii Maturity of financial liabilities The Groups financial liabilities will be settled on both a net and a gross basis over the remaining period between the balance sheet date and the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
On demand or Between one Between two After within one year and two years and five years five years Total At 31 December 2017 m m m m m Trade payables Note 26 78.4 78.4 Obligations under finance leases Note 27 8.5 5.6 4.8 1.3 20.2 Loans Note 28 31.8 20.7 131.0 89.4 272.9 Future loan interest 12.3 22.4 20.6 1.2 56.5 Derivatives settled on gross basis: Outflow 897.8 22.1 919.9 Inflow 907.1 26.0 933.1 121.7 44.8 156.4 91.9 414.8 Loans are stated gross of capitalised finance costs.
209 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued 32 c Liquidity risk continued ii Maturity of financial liabilities continued On demand or Between one Between two After within one year and two years and five years five years Total At 31 December 2016 m m m m m Trade payables Note 26 84.7 84.7 Obligations under finance leases Note 27 13.1 8.9 7.9 29.9 Loans Note 28 9.7 34.2 139.5 118.7 302.1 Future loan interest 15.0 14.2 35.9 12.4 77.5 Derivatives settled on gross basis: Outflow 392.0 25.8 17.8 435.6 Inflow 396.9 34.3 23.1 454.3 117.6 48.8 178.0 131.1 475.5 Loans are stated gross of capitalised finance costs.
Gross cash flows in the table above relating to forward foreign exchange contracts total 875.5m inflow and 871.9m outflow on demand or within one year and 4.7m inflow and 4.4m outflow between one and two years 2016: 394.6m inflow and 390.1m outflow on demand or within one year and nil inflow and nil outflow between one and two years.
32 d Foreign exchange risk i Transactional It is the Groups policy to hedge material transactional exposures using forward foreign exchange contracts to fix the functional currency value of non-functional currency cash flows.
At 31 December 2017, there were no material unhedged non-functional currency monetary assets or liabilities, firm commitments or highly probable forecast transactions.
ii Translational Where possible the Group will raise external funding to match the currency profile of its foreign operations, in order to mitigate translation exposure.
If matched funding is not possible, currency derivatives may be used to protect against movements in foreign exchange.
iii Hedge accounting For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either of fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Detail the Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting under IAS39 can be seen in Note 2.
At 31 December 2017, the Group held cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges against $69.5m of the US Dollar private placements.
Fixed interest cash flows denominated in US Dollars are exchanged for fixed interest cash flows denominated in Sterling.
The profile of these cross currency swaps held by the Group in the current and prior year is as follows: 2017 Receivable 2016 Receivable Notional US Dollar Payable Sterling Notional US Dollar Payable Sterling amount interest rate interest rate amount interest rate interest rate Maturity US Dollar m % % US Dollar m % % May 2018 41.0 4.4 4.9 41.0 4.4 4.9 October 2019 28.5 3.8 4.1 28.5 3.8 4.1 The Group also held a number of forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
These derivatives are hedging highly probable forecast foreign currency trade payments in the UK business.
The net notional amounts are summarised by currency below: 2017 2016 m m Sterling 9.4 7.0 US Dollar 0.6 3.2 Euro 4.2 Indian Rupee 9.2 210 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements All derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are highly effective and as at 31 December 2017 a net fair value loss of 0.7m 2016: 0.5m has been deferred in the hedging reserve.
During the course of the year to 31 December 2017, 0.1m 2016: 3.4m of fair value gains were transferred to the hedging reserve and 0.2m 2016: 1.1m reclassified to the consolidated income statement.
The Group has entered into a net investment hedge.
This uses a portion of the USD denominated loans payable as a hedging instrument against movements in the value of the assets and liabilities of Serco North America Holdings, Inc. All loans payable are recorded at amortised cost, and movements in value due to foreign exchange in the portion designated as hedging instruments are taken to reserves.
The value of loans used in the hedging relationship at 31 December 2017 was 151.8m 2016: nil.
iv Currency sensitivity The Groups currency exposures in respect of monetary items at 31 December 2017 that result in net currency gains and losses in the income statement and equity arise principally from movement in US Dollar and Euro exchange rates.
The impact of a 10% movement is summarised below: Pre-tax profits Equity Pre-tax profits Equity gain loss gain loss gain loss gain loss 2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m US Dollar 0.1 0.1 Euro 0.5 Indian Rupee 1.0 1.1 0.1 0.5 32 e Interest rate risk The Groups policy is to minimise the impact of interest rate volatility on earnings to provide an appropriate level of certainty to cost of funds.
Exposure to interest rate risk arises principally on changes to US Dollar and Sterling interest rates.
i Interest rate management An analysis of financial assets and liabilities exposed to interest rate risk is set out below: Weighted Weighted Floating Fixed average Floating Fixed average rate rate interest rate rate rate interest rate 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Financial assets m m % m m % Cash and cash equivalents 112.1 177.8 Other loan receivables 25.7 7.0 0.5 22.4 7.0 112.1 25.7 178.3 22.4 Weighted Weighted Fixed average Floating Fixed average Floating rate interest rate rate rate interest rate rate 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2017 m m % m m % Financial liabilities US Dollar loans 260.7 5.2 290.2 5.2 Other loans 12.2 11.8 12.2 260.7 11.8 290.2 Exposure to interest rate fluctuations is mitigated through the issuance of fixed rate debt and the use of interest rate derivatives.
Excluded from the above analysis is 20.2m 2016: 28.2m of amounts payable under finance leases, which are subject to fixed rates of interest.
ii Interest rate sensitivity The effect of a 100 basis point increase in LIBOR rates on the net financial liability position at the balance sheet date, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in an increase in pre-tax profit for the year to 31 December 2017 of 1.0m 2016: 1.7m.
211 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued 32 f Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty could default on its contractual obligations.
In this regard, the Groups principal exposure is to cash and cash equivalents, derivative transactions and trade receivables.
The Groups trade receivables credit risk is relatively low given that a high proportion of our customer base are Government bodies with strong sovereign, or sovereign like, credit ratings.
However, where the assessed credit worthiness of a customer, Government or non-government, falls below that considered acceptable, appropriate measures are taken to mitigate against the risk of contractual default using instruments such as credit guarantees.
The Groups credit risk on loans receivable is relatively low.
The balance is comprised of a single loan, which was subject to a fair value assessment by an independent specialist in 2016.
This assessment included the determination of a synthetic credit rating of the issuer, using industry-standard methodology.
We monitor the results and financial position of the issuer on an annual basis to determine whether the risk of default has changed, and therefore whether the assumptions used in the valuation remain appropriate.
The Groups treasury function only transacts with counterparties that comply with Board policy.
The credit risk is measured by way of a counterparty credit rating from any two recognised rating agencies.
Pre-approved limits are set based on a rating matrix and exposures monitored accordingly.
The Group also employs the use of set-off rights in some agreements.
The Groups policy is to provide guarantees for joint ventures and associates only to the relevant proportion of support provided by the partners.
At 31 December 2017, the Company has issued guarantees in respect of certain joint ventures and associates as per Note 31.
32 g Capital risk The Boards objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports the Groups strategic objectives, including but not limited to reshaping the portfolio through mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
In doing so the Board seeks to manage funding and liquidity risk, optimise shareholder return and maintain an implied investment grade credit position.
This strategy is unchanged from the prior year.
The Board reviews and approves at least annually a treasury policy document which covers, inter alia, funding and liquidity risk, capital structure and risk management.
This policy details targets for committed funding headroom, diversification of committed funding and debt maturity profile.
The Group plans to maintain sufficient funds and distributable reserves to allow payments of projected dividends to shareholders.
The following table summarises the capital of the Group: 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents 112.1 177.8 Loans 245.8 277.0 Obligations under finance leases 20.2 28.2 Equity 310.9 398.8 Capital 464.8 526.2 33.
Retirement benefit schemes 33 a Defined benefit schemes i Characteristics and risks The Group contributes to defined benefit schemes for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries in the UK and Europe.
The normal contributions expected to be paid during the financial year ending 31 December 2018 are 7.1m 2017: 9.7m.
Among our non-contract specific schemes, the largest is the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of this scheme was undertaken as at 5 April 2015 and resulted in an actuarially assessed deficit of 4.0m for funding purposes.
Pension obligations are valued separately for accounting and funding purposes and there is often a material difference between these valuations.
As at 31 December 2017 the estimated actuarial deficit of SPLAS was 33.7m 2016: 42.6m based on the actuarial assessment on the funding basis whereas the accounting valuation resulted in an asset of 41.8m.
The primary reason a difference arises is that pension scheme accounting requires the valuation to be performed on the basis of a best estimate whereas the funding valuation used by the trustees makes more prudent assumptions.
A revised schedule of contributions for SPLAS was agreed during the year, with 29% of pensionable salaries due to be paid from 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2018 and 28% from 1 November 2018 to 18 December 2022.
An additional shortfall contribution of 1.0m is due by 30 April 2018 and four further payments of 0.5m payable at the end of each April through to 2022.
212 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The assets of funded schemes are held independently of the Groups assets in separate trustee administered schemes.
The trustees of each pension scheme are required by law to act in the interest of the scheme and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme.
The trustees of the pension fund are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the scheme.
The Groups major schemes are valued by independent actuaries annually using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method for accounting purposes.
This reflects service rendered by employees to the dates of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions including: discount rates to determine the present value of benefits: projected rates of salary growth: and life expectancy of pension plan members.
Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds in the country concerned.
Pension assets and liabilities in the different defined benefit schemes are not offset.
The schemes typically expose the Group to risks that impact the financial performance and position of the Group and may affect the amount and timing of future cash flows.
The key risks are set out below: Investment risk.
The schemes hold assets with which to discharge the future liabilities of these schemes.
Any decline in the value of these investments directly impacts on the ability of the scheme to meet its commitments and could require the Group to fund this shortfall in future years.
As a result of the SPLASs investment strategy, which aims to reduce volatility risk by better matching assets to liabilities, 45% of the schemes assets are annuity policies and 55% are Liability Driven Investments LDIs.
The annuity policies result in an insurer funding the future benefit payments to the relevant members and therefore eliminate the risk of changes in the future value of the benefits to the scheme.
The main asset classes that make up the LDI investments are gilts and corporate bonds with inflation and interest swap overlays and are therefore linked to the key drivers of the schemes liabilities.
The value of these investments vary in line with gilt yields, which has decreased from 2.65% p. a. to 2.53% p. a. during 2017 resulting in a decrease in these assets.
SPLAS previously identified an investment strategy consisting of Multi-Asset Absolute Return MAAR, Buy and Maintain credit B&M and LDI.
SPLAS began to wind down its previous investment strategy in late 2016, with assets transferred to a passive LDI portfolio managed by BlackRock, over the course of late 2016 and early 2017.
This ensures that the scheme remains protected against changes to interest rates and long term inflation expectations, with the funding level therefore being relatively stable.
As explained in section a ii, in the first half of 2017 the Trustee secured a buy-in of the majority of the pensioner members, resulting in a significant fide-risking of the schemes position, which has provided a secure match of that significant proportion of the schemes liabilities.
Since the buy-in was completed the scheme has been developing a revised investment strategy which will aim to invest in private debt instead of MAAR to enable the scheme to reach full funding on the self sufficiency basis within an acceptable time period.
The present value of the defined benefit schemes liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference to high quality corporate bond yields and therefore a decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the scheme liability.
This will be partially offset by an increase in the return of the plans debt investments.
The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment.
An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plans liability.
The present value of the defined benefit scheme liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan participants, as such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plans liability.
The defined benefit schemes are grouped together as follows: Contract specific.
These are pre-funded defined benefit schemes.
The Group has obligations to contribute variable amounts to the pension schemes over the terms of the related contracts as defined by the contract and scheme rules.
At rebid, any deficit or surplus would be expected to transfer to the next contractor.
At the start of these relevant contracts the Group recognised the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of scheme assets with a corresponding amount recognised as an intangible asset.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of the pension obligations have been recognised in the SOCI.
The intangible assets are amortised over the initial term of the contracts with none remaining at the current or prior year end.
Where the relevant scheme has a deficit which is not required to be fully funded by Group an adjustment is made to limit the amount recognised in the Groups balance sheet by way of a franchise adjustment.
Under contractual arrangements the Group sponsors a section of an industry wide defined benefit scheme, the Railways Pension Scheme RPS, paying contributions in accordance with a Schedule of Contributions.
There is no residual liability to fund a deficit at the end of the franchise period and any costs are shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the members.
The Group also makes contributions under Admitted Body status to a number of sections of the Local Government Pension Scheme for the period to the end of the relevant customer contracts.
The Group will only participate in the Local Government Pension Schemes for a finite period up to the end of the contracts.
The Group is required to pay regular contributions as decided by the respective Scheme Actuary and as detailed in each schemes Schedule of Contributions.
In addition, the Group may be required to pay some or all of any deficit as determined by the respective Scheme Actuary that is remaining at the end of the contract.
In respect of this, the Group recognises a sufficient level of provision in these financial statements based on the IAS19 valuation at the reporting date and contractual obligations.
These do not relate to any specific contract and consist of two pre-funded defined benefit schemes and an unfunded defined benefit scheme.
Any liabilities arising are recognised in full and the liabilities in relation to unfunded scheme amount to 0.4m 2016: 0.2m.
The unfunded scheme is the only non-UK scheme in which the Group participates.
The funding policy for the pre-funded schemes is to contribute such variable amounts, on the advice of the actuary, as will achieve 100% funding on a projected salary basis.
One of these schemes is SPLAS and the other is a non-contract specific section of the RPS.
213 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 33 a Defined benefit schemes continued ii Events in the year In June 2017 the Trustees of SPLAS entered into a bulk annuity purchase whereby an insurer will fund future benefit payments to the relevant members, commonly referred to as a buy-in.
The liability to pay the members remains with SPLAS and therefore the pension scheme will continue to include the relevant pension liabilities.
However, an insurance asset is held at fair value, which, in line with IAS19 for qualifying insurance policies, is deemed to be equal to the present value of the related obligations.
This removes the risk of longevity and investment movements for this portion of the scheme on a funding basis, and also removes the accounting risk of movements in underlying assumptions on the liabilities.
Of the total remeasurements recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income in the year ended 31 December 2017 of 106.5m, 95.0m related to the revaluation of the assets and liabilities as a result of this transaction.
Whilst the impact substantially reduced the asset on an IAS19 valuation basis, on an actuarial basis the transaction decreased the deficit of the scheme by approximately 12m.
As a result of the transaction, the scheme also exited a longevity swap arrangement early, at a cost borne by the scheme of 7.5m.
In 2016, certain active former members of SPLAS on a specific contract were transferred back to a Government backed pension scheme they had previously been members of.
This resulted in contribution savings due to lower rates required under the Government Serco scheme and a curtailment gain of 1.9m was recognised in 2016.
In 2017 certain of these deferred members transferred their accrued benefits from SPLAS to the Government scheme.
The arrangements for this process had been made by a planned transfer on a bulk basis, which resulted in settlement accounting being applied in 2016 and an exceptional charge booked at the time.
However, it was subsequently agreed that the Government would allow the transfer of members on an individual basis and as the members are taking an existing option to take an individual transfer out of the scheme, settlement accounting was no longer applicable following the change of arrangements in 2017.
The impact of the individuals transferring out is now treated as a change in actuarial assumptions and impacts on reserves, not through the income statement.
The remaining provision of 10.3m was therefore reversed through exceptional items in 2017.
The impact of the transfer resulted in a charge to other comprehensive income of 5.1m, included within the effect of experience assumptions.
In November 2017 certain members of SPLAS agreed to transfer their active membership to defined contribution schemes and a curtailment gain of 2.0m is recognised in the year in the Groups income statement.
iii Values recognised in total comprehensive income in the year The amounts recognised in the financial statements for the year are analysed as follows: Contract Non-contract specific specific Total 2017 2017 2017 Recognised in the income statement m m m Current service cost employer 1.0 7.6 8.6 Past service cost 0.3 0.3 Curtailment loss recognised 2.0 2.0 Administrative expenses and taxes 5.3 5.3 Recognised in arriving at operating profit 1.0 11.2 12.2 Interest income on scheme assets employer 0.4 41.4 41.8 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.1 0.1 Interest cost on scheme liabilities employer 0.5 37.6 38.1 Finance income 3.8 3.8 214 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Contract Non-contract specific specific Total 2017 2017 2017 Included within the SOCI m m m Actual return on scheme assets 11.0 50.7 39.7 Less: interest income on scheme assets 0.4 41.4 41.8 10.6 92.1 81.5 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 1.0 1.0 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 10.3 21.3 31.6 Effect of experience adjustments 0.8 4.8 5.6 Remeasurements 1.1 107.6 106.5 Change in franchise adjustment 0.2 0.2 Change in members share 0.4 0.4 Actuarial losses on reimbursable rights 0.6 0.6 Total pension gain recognised in the SOCI 0.5 107.6 107.1 Contract Non-contract specific specific Total 2016 2016 2016 Recognised in the income statement m m m Current service cost employer 0.4 7.4 7.8 Past service cost 0.4 0.4 Curtailment loss recognised 1.9 1.9 Administrative expenses and taxes 5.4 5.4 Recognised in arriving at operating profit 0.4 11.3 11.7 Interest income on scheme assets employer 0.1 49.0 49.1 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.1 0.1 Interest cost on scheme liabilities employer 0.2 44.3 44.5 Finance income 4.7 4.7 Contract Non-contract specific specific Total 2016 2016 2016 Included within the SOCI m m m Actual return on scheme assets 0.9 285.2 286.1 Less: interest income on scheme assets 0.2 49.0 49.2 0.7 236.2 236.9 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 26.2 26.2 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 3.5 279.3 282.8 Effect of experience adjustments 28.7 28.7 Remeasurements 2.8 11.8 9.0 Change in franchise adjustment 1.7 1.7 Change in members share 1.2 1.2 Actuarial losses on reimbursable rights 2.9 2.9 Total pension gain recognised in the SOCI 0.1 11.8 11.9 215 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 33 a Defined benefit schemes continued iv Balance sheet values The assets and liabilities of the schemes at 31 December are: Contract Non-contract Total specific 2017 specific 2017 2017 Scheme assets at fair value m m m Equities 9.9 46.3 56.2 Bonds except LDIs 2.9 20.8 23.7 LDIs 709.8 709.8 Gilts 0.2 0.2 Property 1.6 1.6 Cash and other 2.8 3.2 6.0 Annuity policies 587.5 587.5 Fair value of scheme assets 17.4 1,367.6 1,385.0 Present value of scheme liabilities 23.4 1,341.3 1,364.7 Net amount recognised 6.0 26.3 20.3 Franchise adjustment 3.6 3.6 Members' share of deficit 2.4 2.4 Net retirement benefit asset 26.3 26.3 Net pension liability 15.5 15.5 Net pension asset 41.8 41.8 Net retirement benefit asset 26.3 26.3 Deferred tax liabilities 2.5 2.5 Net retirement benefit asset after tax 23.8 23.8 The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
Contract Non-contract Total specific 2016 specific 2016 2016 Scheme assets at fair value m m m Equities 3.3 43.3 46.6 Bonds except LDIs 0.7 20.2 20.9 LDIs 1,390.6 1,390.6 Gilts 72.4 72.4 Property 0.6 0.6 Cash and other 1.2 4.2 5.4 Annuity policies 20.0 20.0 Fair value of scheme assets 5.8 1,550.7 1,556.5 Present value of scheme liabilities 12.0 1,418.0 1,430.0 Net amount recognised 6.2 132.7 126.5 Franchise adjustment 3.7 3.7 Members' share of deficit 2.5 2.5 Net retirement benefit asset 132.7 132.7 Net pension liability 17.7 17.7 Net pension asset 150.4 150.4 Net retirement benefit asset 132.7 132.7 Deferred tax liabilities 17.6 17.6 Net retirement benefit asset after tax 115.1 115.1 The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
The SPLAS Trust Deed gives the Group an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets, assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up.
As such, the Group recognises the surplus of scheme assets over liabilities on the balance sheet.
As required by IAS19, the Group has considered the extent to which the pension plan assets should be classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy of IFRS13.
Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in active markets.
Annuity policies and property assets can be classified as Level 3 instruments, and LDIs are classified as Level 2.
216 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Contract Non-contract specific specific Total Changes in the fair value of scheme liabilities m m m At 1 January 2016 7.7 1,188.7 1,196.4 Current service cost employer 0.4 7.4 7.8 Current service cost employee 0.3 0.3 Past service costs 0.4 0.4 Scheme participants contributions 0.5 0.5 Interest cost employer 0.2 44.3 44.5 Interest cost employee 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 0.1 45.9 46.0 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 26.2 26.2 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 3.4 279.4 282.8 Effect of experience adjustments 28.7 28.7 Plan curtailments 1.9 1.9 At 1 January 2017 12.0 1,418.0 1,430.0 Current service cost employer 1.0 7.6 8.6 Current service cost employee 0.4 0.4 Past service costs 0.3 0.3 Scheme participants contributions 0.1 0.5 0.6 Interest cost employer 0.5 37.6 38.1 Interest cost employee 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid 0.2 77.6 77.8 Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 1.0 1.0 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 10.3 21.3 31.6 Effect of experience adjustments 0.8 4.8 5.6 Plan curtailments 2.0 2.0 Settlement payments from plan assets 58.6 58.6 At 31 December 2017 23.4 1,341.3 1,364.7 217 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 33 a Defined benefit schemes continued iv Balance sheet values continued Contract Non-contract specific specific Total Changes in the fair value of scheme assets m m m At 1 January 2016 4.6 1,304.3 1,308.9 Interest income on scheme assets employer 0.1 49.0 49.1 Interest income on scheme assets employee 0.1 0.1 Administrative expenses and taxes 5.4 5.4 Employer contributions 0.3 11.9 12.2 Contributions by employees 0.2 0.5 0.7 Benefits paid 0.1 45.9 46.0 Return on scheme assets less interest income 0.6 236.3 236.9 At 1 January 2017 5.8 1,550.7 1,556.5 Interest income on scheme assets employer 0.4 41.4 41.8 Interest income on scheme assets employee 0.1 0.1 Administrative expenses and taxes 5.3 5.3 Employer contributions 0.5 8.7 9.2 Contributions by employees 0.2 0.4 0.6 Benefits paid 0.2 77.6 77.8 Return on scheme assets less interest income 10.6 92.1 81.5 Settlement payments from plan assets 58.6 58.6 At 31 December 2017 17.4 1,367.6 1,385.0 Total Changes in the franchise adjustment m At 1 January 2016 1.9 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.1 Taken to SOCI 1.7 At 1 January 2017 3.7 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.1 Taken to SOCI 0.2 At 31 December 2017 3.6 218 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements v Actuarial assumptions: SPLAS The assumptions set out below are for SPLAS, which reflects 92% of total liabilities and 94% of total assets of the defined benefit pension scheme in which the Group participates.
The significant actuarial assumptions with regards to the determination of the defined benefit obligation are set out below.
The average duration of the benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 17.9 years 2016: 17.7 years.
2017 2016 Main assumptions % % Rate of salary increases 2.70 2.80 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.30 CPI and 3.00 RPI 2.30 CPI and 3.30 RPI Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.30 CPI and 3.00 RPI 2.30 CPI and 3.30 RPI Inflation assumption 2.20 CPI and 3.20 RPI 2.30 CPI and 3.30 RPI Discount rate 2.50 2.70 2017 2016 Post retirement mortality years years Current pensioners at 65 male 22.5 22.5 Current pensioners at 65 female 25.1 25.0 Future pensioners at 65 male 24.3 24.2 Future pensioners at 65 female 26.9 26.9 Sensitivity analysis is provided below, based on reasonably possible changes of the assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, assuming all other assumptions are held constant.
The sensitivities have been derived in the same manner as the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2017 where the defined benefit obligation is estimated using the Projected Unit Credit method.
Under this method each participants benefits are attributed to years of service, taking into consideration future salary increases and the schemes benefit allocation formula.
Thus, the estimated total pension to which each participant is expected to become entitled at retirement is broken down into units, each associated with a year of past or future credited service.
The defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2017 is calculated on the actuarial assumptions agreed as at that date.
The sensitivities are calculated by changing each assumption in turn following the methodology above with all other things held constant.
The change in the defined benefit obligation from updating the single assumption represents the impact of that assumption on the calculation of the defined benefit obligation.
2017 2016 m m Discount rate 0.5% increase 107.9 116.5 Discount rate 0.5% decrease 122.0 132.5 Inflation 0.5% increase 83.4 106.1 Inflation 0.5% decrease 78.0 87.6 Rate of salary increase 0.5% increase 3.6 7.8 Rate of salary increase 0.5% decrease 3.5 7.4 Mortality one year age rating 41.6 44.2 Management acknowledges that the method used of presuming that all other assumptions remaining constant has inherent limitation given that it is more likely for a combination of changes, but highlights the value of each individual risk and is therefore a suitable basis for providing this analysis.
Assumptions in respect of the expected return on scheme assets are required when calculating the franchise adjustment for the contractspecific plans.
These assumptions are based on market expectations of returns over the life of the related obligation.
Due consideration has been given to current market conditions as at 31 December 2017 in respect to inflation, interest, bond yields and equity performance when selecting the expected return on assets assumptions.
The expected yield on bond investments with fixed interest rates is derived from their market value.
The yield on equity investments contains an additional premium an equity risk premium to compensate investors for the additional anticipated risks of holding this type of investment, when compared to bond yields.
The Group applies an equity risk premium of 4.6% 2016: 4.6%.
The overall expected return on assets is calculated as the weighted average of the expected returns for the principal asset categories held by the scheme.
219 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 33 b Defined contribution schemes The Group paid employer contributions of 75.0m 2016: 73.9m into UK and other defined contribution schemes and foreign state pension schemes.
Serco accounts for certain pre-funded defined benefit schemes relating to contracts as defined contribution schemes because the contributions are fixed until the end of the current concession and at rebid any surplus or deficit would transfer to the next contractor.
Cash contributions are recognised as pension costs and no asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet.
Share capital Number Number 2017 2017 2016 2016 Issued and fully paid m millions m millions 1,098,564,237 2016: 1,098,559,781 ordinary shares of 2p each at 1 January 22.0 1,098.6 22.0 1,098.6 Issued on the exercise of share options 1,098,564,237 2016: 1,098,564,237 ordinary shares of 2p each at 31 December 22.0 1,098.6 22.0 1,098.6 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Share premium account 2017 2016 m m At 1 January and 31 December 327.9 327.9 36.
Reserves 36 a Retirement benefit obligations reserve The retirement benefit obligations reserve represents the actuarial gains and losses recognised in respect of annual actuarial valuations for defined benefit retirement schemes, the fair value adjustments on reimbursable rights and the related movements in deferred tax balances.
36 b Share based payment reserve The share based payment reserve represents credits relating to equity-settled share based payment transactions and any gain or loss on the exercise of share options satisfied by own shares.
36 c Own shares reserve The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Serco Group plc purchased in the market and held by the Serco Group plc Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT to satisfy options under the Groups share options schemes.
The market value of shares held by the ESOT as at 31 December 2017 was 8.6m 2016: 14.1m.
36 d Hedging and translation reserve The hedging and translation reserve represents foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the Groups overseas operations and movements relating to cash flow hedges.
Hedging Translation reserve reserve Total m m m At 1 January 2016 2.8 54.9 57.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 2.3 80.0 82.3 At 1 January 2017 0.5 25.1 24.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.2 14.3 14.5 At 31 December 2017 0.7 10.8 10.1 220 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 37.
Share based payment expense The Group recognised the following expenses related to equity-settled share based payment transactions: 2017 2016 m m Performance Share Plan 9.9 8.9 Deferred Bonus Plan 1.5 0.8 11.4 9.7 Executive Option Plan EOP Options granted under the EOP may be exercised after the third anniversary of grant, dependent upon the achievement of a financial performance target over three years.
The options are granted at market value and awards made to eligible employees are based on between 50% and 100% of salary as at 31 December prior to grant.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Furthermore, options may be forfeited if the eligible employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Details of the movement in all EOP options are as follows: Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2017 2017 2016 2016 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 93 4.16 187 3.77 Lapsed during the year 94 3.39 Outstanding at 31 December 93 4.16 93 4.16 Of these options, 92,540 2016: 92,540 were exercisable at the end of the year, with a weighted average exercise price of 4.16 2016: 4.16.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had a weighted average contractual life of 0.87 years 2016: 1.87 years.
The exercise prices for options outstanding at 31 December 2017 ranged from 3.88 to 4.55 2016: 3.88 to 4.55.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise approximates to the weighted average share price during the year, which was 1.17 2016: 1.13.
The fair value of options granted under the EOP is measured by use of the Binomial Lattice model.
The Binomial Lattice model is considered to be most appropriate for valuing options granted under this scheme as it allows exercise over a longer period of time between the vesting date and the expiry date.
There were no new options granted under Executive Option Plan during the year and all shares are now vested.
Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Awards made to eligible employees under the above schemes are structured as options with a zero exercise price.
The extent to which an award vests and therefore becomes exercisable is measured by reference to the growth in the Groups earnings per share EPS or total shareholder return TSR over the performance period or service period conditions.
Details of the movement in all LTIS and LTIP options are as follows: Weighted Weighted average Number of average Number of exercise price options exercise price options 2017 2016 2016 2017 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 116 nil 240 nil Exercised during the year 24 nil 54 nil Lapsed during the year 92 nil 70 nil Outstanding at 31 December nil 116 nil Of these options, nil 2016: 115,818 were exercisable at the end of the year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had a weighted average contractual life of nil years 2016: 0.65 years.
There were no new options granted under either LTIS or LTIP during the year.
221 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 37.
Share based payment expense continued Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, eligible employees have been granted options with an exercise price of two pence.
Awards vest after the performance period of three to five years and are subject to the achievement of four performance measures with the exception of new non-performance awards granted in 2014.
These non-performance options are only subject to continued employment on vesting dates which vary from six months to three years after the grant dates.
On the performance related awards, the primary performance measure is TSR and the second performance measure is based on EPS growth.
Two additional measures on new grants in 2014 were Absolute Share Price and Strategic Objectives.
Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2017 2017 2016 2016 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 34,485 0.02 23,771 0.02 Granted during the year 15,936 0.02 18,419 0.02 Exercised during the year 1,123 0.02 666 0.02 Lapsed during the year 8,297 0.02 7,039 0.02 Outstanding at 31 December 41,001 0.02 34,485 0.02 Of these options, 1,040,066 2016: 133,470 were exercisable at the end of the year.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had a weighted average contractual life of 7.7 years 2016: 7.5 years.
In the year, ten grants were made, of which five were non-performance conditional share awards and two non-performance nominal share awards.
The remaining three performance based awards are with Earnings per Share EPS, Total Shareholder Return TSR and Return on Invested Capital ROIC performance conditions each attached to 33.3% of options.
The options subject to market-based performance conditions such as the TSR condition for these awards, were valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation model.
The options subject only to non-market based performance conditions such as the EPS and ROIC conditions a Black-Scholes model has been used.
This approach has also been used for the Awards made with no performance conditions attached to them.
The Monte Carlo Simulation model is considered to be the most appropriate for valuing options granted under schemes where there are changes in performance conditions by which the options are measured, such as for the Absolute Share Price or TSR based awards.
The Monte Carlo and Black-Scholes Models used the following inputs:: 2017 Weighted average share price 1.161 Weighted average exercise price 0.02 Expected volatility 44.8% Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 0.184% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The weighted average fair value of options granted under this scheme in the year is 0.99 2016: 0.89.
222 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, eligible employees are entitled to use up to 50% of their earned annual bonus to purchase shares in the Group at market price.
Provided they remain in employment for this period, the shares are retained for that period and the performance measures have been met, the Group will make a matching share award, up to a maximum of two times the gross bonus deferred.
Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2017 2017 2016 2016 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 2,945 Nil 906 Nil Granted during the year 2,549 Nil 2,186 Nil Lapsed during the year 600 Nil 147 Nil Outstanding at 31 December 4,894 Nil 2,945 Nil None of these options were exercisable at the end of the year 2016: none.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had a weighted average contractual life of 1.6 years 2016: 2.1 years.
There were 2,549,262 new options granted under the Deferred Bonus Plan in the year, with 100% of the deferred bonus subject to the same EPS performance conditions as the PSP.
The portion subject to EPS performance conditions was deemed to have a fair value equal to their face value less the present value of any dividend payments not received over the vesting period.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The assumptions for options granted during the year with EPS performance conditions are: 2017 Weighted average share price 1.20 Weighted average exercise price Nil Expected volatility 43.9% Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 0.20% The weighted average fair value of options granted under this scheme in the year is 1.20 2016: 0.95.
223 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 37.
Share based payment expense continued Sharesave 2012 The Sharesave 2012 scheme provides for a purchase price equal to the daily average market price on the date of grant less 10%.
The options can be exercised for a period of six months following their vesting.
Details of the movement in Sharesave 2012 options are as follows: Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2017 2017 2016 2016 thousands thousands Outstanding at 1 January 2,051 5.14 Lapsed during the year 2,051 5.14 Outstanding at 31 December Of these options, none 2016: none were exercisable at the end of the year.
There were no outstanding options at 31 December 2017 2016: none.
Given that options granted under the Sharesave plan can be exercised at any time after vesting, management consider the Binomial Lattice model to be appropriate to value the options granted under this scheme.
The Binomial Lattice model allows exercise over a window in time, from vesting date to expiry date and assumes option holders make economically rational exercise decisions.
There were no new options granted under Sharesave Plan in the year.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint venture undertakings and associates are disclosed below.
Transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with joint ventures and associates: Current Non-current outstanding at outstanding at Transactions 31 December 31 December 2017 2017 2017 m m m Sale of goods and services Joint ventures 0.5 0.1 Associates 7.1 0.5 Other Dividends received joint ventures 11.1 Dividends received associates 17.1 Receivable from consortium for tax joint ventures 2.4 5.3 Total 38.2 5.9 Joint venture receivable and loan amounts outstanding have arisen from transactions undertaken during the general course of trading, are unsecured, and will be settled in cash.
Interest arising on loans is based on LIBOR, or its equivalent, with an appropriate margin.
No guarantee has been given or received.
The only loan amounts owed by joint ventures or associates related to a single entity which have been provided for in full see Note 11.
224 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Current Non-current outstanding at outstanding at Transactions 31 December 31 December 2016 2016 2016 m m m Sale of goods and services Joint ventures 0.5 0.1 Associates 6.2 0.5 Other Dividends received joint ventures 20.4 Dividends received associates 19.6 Receivable from consortium for tax joint ventures 3.2 7.7 Total 49.9 8.3 Remuneration of key management personnel The Directors of Serco Group plc had no material transactions with the Group during the year other than service contracts and Directors liability insurance.
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS24 Related Party Disclosures: 2017 2016 m m Short-term employee benefits 12.5 11.9 Share based payment expense 6.2 4.7 18.7 16.6 The key management personnel comprise the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee 2017: 23 individuals, 2016: 20 individuals.
Aggregate directors remuneration The total amounts for directors remuneration in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations were as follows: 2017 2016 m m Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 5.5 5.6 Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes 6.3 5.6 Gains on exercise of share options 0.1 11.9 11.2 None of the directors are members of the companys defined benefit pension scheme.
One director is a member of the money purchase scheme.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 110 to 112.
225 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 39.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 2017 2016 Before 2017 Before 2016 exceptional Exceptional 2017 exceptional Exceptional 2016 items items Total items items Total Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Operating profit for the year continuing operations 49.6 19.6 30.0 98.5 56.3 42.2 Operating loss for the year discontinued operations 3.3 14.2 17.5 Operating profit for the year 49.6 19.6 30.0 95.2 70.5 24.7 Adjustments for: Share of profits in joint ventures and associates 27.3 27.3 33.4 33.4 Share based payment expense 11.4 11.4 9.7 9.7 Exceptional impairment of goodwill 17.8 17.8 Exceptional impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.8 0.8 Exceptional impairment of intangible assets 8.9 8.9 0.3 0.3 Impairment and write down of intangible assets 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.7 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 24.3 24.3 24.8 24.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 25.8 25.8 26.2 26.2 Exceptional profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 0.3 0.3 0.8 0.8 Non-cash R&D expenditure offset against intangible assets 0.7 0.7 0.2 0.2 Decrease in provisions 46.4 9.6 56.0 118.4 1.1 119.5 Other non-cash movements 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.4 Total non-cash items 12.3 1.0 13.3 87.9 16.1 71.8 Operating cash inflow outflow before movements in working capital 37.3 20.6 16.7 7.3 54.4 47.1 Decrease in inventories 3.7 3.7 1.3 1.3 Decrease in receivables 8.1 4.5 12.6 59.0 13.9 72.9 Decrease in payables 20.8 16.4 37.2 84.0 0.6 83.4 Movements in working capital 9.0 11.9 20.9 23.7 14.5 9.2 Cash generated by operations 28.3 32.5 4.2 16.4 39.9 56.3 Tax paid 11.4 11.4 5.6 5.6 Non-cash R&D expenditure 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.4 Net cash outflow inflow from operating activities 16.7 32.5 15.8 22.4 39.9 62.3 Additions to property, plant and equipment during the year amounting to 4.7m 2016: 0.5m were financed by new finance leases.
226 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 40.
Post balance sheet events On 26 January 2018, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of BTP Systems, LLC BTP, for consideration of US Dollar $20.5m 14.5m in cash.
BTP provides satellite communications SATCOM, radar modernization, operations and maintenance and sustainment services that enable customers to extend the lives of existing systems and achieve phased upgrades with new technology to enhance operational capability.
BTP specializes in areas including obsolescence engineering, systems engineering services, test equipment and design, and field engineering services, and maintains a near-field and compact antenna test range at their Ludlow, MA headquarters.
BTP's expertise spans shipboard and submarine SATCOM antenna systems, MILSTAR command post antennas and radar antennas.
The acquisition is expected to increase the Groups market share.
The financial results and impact of this transaction have not been recognised in these Consolidated Financial Statements, the operating results, assets and liabilities will be recognised with effect from 26 January 2018.
Provisional fair value Provisional US Dollar fair value $m m Goodwill 13.6 9.6 Acquisition related intangible assets 4.4 3.1 Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.3 Inventories 0.5 0.4 Trade and other receivables 2.3 1.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1.7 1.2 Trade and other payables 2.4 1.7 Acquisition date fair value of consideration transferred 20.5 14.5 The Group signed a revised Business Purchase Agreement BPA on 13 February 2018 with the Special Managers and Provisional Liquidators acting on behalf of the relevant Carillion plc subsidiaries to acquire a portfolio of selected UK health facilities management contracts.
As consents are required for each individual contract to be transferred and therefore acquired, at the time the financial statements were authorised for issue, no legal transfer or control of assets had taken place and so no disclosures have been made in respect of the assets and liabilities being acquired.
