FiNANCiAl HEAD 0 1ST LINE StAtemeNtS Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 87 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS 1 Reporting entity millennium & Copthorne hotels plc the Company is a limited company incorporated in england and wales whose shares are publicly traded on the london Stock exchange.
the registered office is located at victoria house, victoria Road, horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF, united Kingdom.
these consolidated financial statements comprise the Company and its subsidiaries collectively the Group.
the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 december 2017 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 28 march 2018.
2.1 Basis of preparation the consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for investment properties and, from 1 January 2005, derivative financial instruments, financial instruments held for trading and financial instruments classified as available-for-sale which are stated at their fair values.
hotel properties are stated at cost or deemed cost.
deemed cost is calculated based on the hotels frozen valuation as at 1 January 2004.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
the Groups income statement and segmental analysis separately identifies operating profit and other operating income and expense.
this is in accordance with iAS 1 presentation of Financial Statements and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the Group.
the financial statements are presented in the Companys functional currency of sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
the Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced disclosure Framework.
Basis of accounting these consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with iFRS as required by eu law iAS Regulation eC1606 2002. details of the Groups accounting policies, including changes during the year, are included below.
Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
the Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
the financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Interests in equity-accounted investees the Groups interests in equity-accounted investees comprise interests in joint ventures and associates.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies.
A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, and where the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
interests in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method.
they are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated.
unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Going concern the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 30. the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic Report Financial performance on pages 10 to 11 and in the key performance indicators on page 9. in addition, 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 88 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Note 22 of the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
the Group has considerable financial resources and plans for refinancing maturing facilities are under way.
Cash flow forecasts for the Group have been prepared for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements.
these forecasts reflect an assessment of current market conditions.
the forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
in addition, management has considered various mitigating actions that could be taken in the event that market conditions are worse than their current assessment.
Such measures include further reduction in costs and in capital expenditure.
on the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least 12 months from the signing of this annual report.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
in assessing whether the Group is a going concern, the directors follow a review process which is consistent with the principles set out in the Guidance on Risk management, internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 2014 published by the Financial Reporting Council.
2.2 Summary of significant accounting policies the Group has consistently applied the following accounting policies to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
A Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
the cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and identifiable net assets acquired are measured at the acquisition date fair value.
when the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
this includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
if the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value as at that date through the income statement.
Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
if an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets the definition of a financial instrument is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
otherwise, other contingent consideration is remeasured at fair value at each reporting date and subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and is allocated to each of the Groups hotels that are expected to benefit from the combination.
if the consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in the income statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 89 Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cashgenerating unit retained.
B Foreign currency the financial statements of each of the Groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
i Foreign currency translation transactions in foreign currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations on consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
the revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve.
when a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to the income statement.
iii Net investment in foreign operations exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are taken to translation reserve.
they are released into the income statement upon disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.
C Derivative financial instruments the Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign currency and interest rate risk exposures.
embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and accounted for separately if certain criteria are met.
derivatives are initially measured at fair value: any directly attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are generally recognised in profit or loss.
D Hedges i Cash flow hedges when a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
when the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
if a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the above policy, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
the ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
when a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 90 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
if the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities when a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, hedge accounting is not applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operations the portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity within the translation reserve.
the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
E Property, plant and equipment and depreciation i Recognition and measurement land and buildings other than investment properties are stated at cost, except as allowed under iFRS 1 transition rules, less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Any impairment of such properties below depreciated historical cost is charged to the income statement.
under the transition provisions of iFRS 1, land and buildings which were previously revalued under uK GAAp were measured on the basis of their deemed cost, being their uK GAAp carrying value, including revaluations, as at 1 January 2004 being the effective date of the Groups conversion to iFRS.
ii Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Building core 50 years or lease term if shorter Building surface, finishes and services 30 years or lease term if shorter plant and machinery 15 20 years Furniture and equipment 10 years Soft furnishings 5 7 years Computer equipment 5 years Software up to 8 years motor vehicles 4 years No residual values are ascribed to building surface finishes and services.
Residual values ascribed to building core depend on the nature, location and tenure of each property.
iii Subsequent costs Capital expenditure on major projects is recorded separately within property, plant and equipment as capital work in progress.
once the project is complete the balance is transferred to the appropriate fixed asset categories.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
interest attributable to funds used to finance the construction or acquisition of new hotels or major extensions to existing hotels is capitalised net of tax relief and added to the cost of the hotel core.
operating supplies, which include china, linen, glass and silverware, were stated at their deemed costs as at 1 January 2008 and subsumed into the costs of the hotel buildings.
Subsequent renewals and replacements of such stocks and new supplies upon initial hotel opening are written off as incurred to the income statement.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 91 F Leases i Leased assets leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
the leased asset is initially recorded at the lower of fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments.
the equivalent liability, categorised as appropriate, is included within current or non-current liabilities.
Assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce constant rates of return on the outstanding balance.
Rentals payable by the Group under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on the same basis.
in cases where rents comprise a fixed and a variable element, the fixed element only is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis with the variable amounts being charged as they become due.
lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Rentals receivable by the Group as lessor under operating leases, including the sub-letting of retail outlets within hotel properties, are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if the receipts are not made on such a basis.
Costs, including depreciation incurred in earning the lease income, are recognised as an expense.
ii Lease premium the Group makes and receives initial payments on entering into both long and short leases of land and buildings.
where payment for leased land is equivalent to the purchase of the freehold interest, the lease is classified as a finance lease.
All other payments for leases of land are classified as operating leases.
on the statement of financial position, finance lease payment attributable to the land is recorded as property, plant and equipment and for operating leases, the land is recorded as a lease premium prepayment.
Both lease types are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
interest attributable to funds to finance the purchase or lease of land is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of lease.
in the case of lease premiums received, these are reflected on the statement of financial position as deferred income, appropriately classified between current and non-current liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
G Impairment the carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment properties, inventories, employee benefit assets and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
if any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
the recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
in assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
impairment losses are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
where permissible under iFRS, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment had been recognised.
in the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value of the asset below its cost is considered in determining whether the asset is impaired.
if any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 92 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued H Investment properties investment properties held by the Group are properties which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
investment properties are stated at fair value.
Any increase or decrease in the fair value on annual revaluation is recognised in the income statement in accordance with iAS 40 investment property.
in limited circumstances, the determination of fair value is uncertain, and these properties are carried at cost.
impairment analysis over these properties is carried out annually.
An external independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued, values the portfolio annually.
the fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
I Inventories inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
J Development properties development properties are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
they are held for sale in the short term and are therefore classified as current assets.
the cost of development properties includes interest and other related expenditure incurred in order to get the asset ready for its intended use.
Borrowing costs payable on loans funding a development property are also capitalised, on a specific identification basis, as part of the cost of the development property until the completion of development.
payments received from purchasers arising from pre-sales of the property units prior to the completion are included as deferred income under other financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
K Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
L Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
M Income tax income tax on profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax.
income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
the following temporary differences are not provided for: i the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and ii differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the benefit will be realised.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 93 deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only to the extent that: i the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities: ii the Group intends to settle net: and iii the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
N Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement.
ii Defined benefit plans the Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
As set out in Note 23, the calculation of the present value of the Groups defined benefit obligations at each period end is subject to significant estimation.
An appropriately qualified, independent actuary is used to undertake this calculation.
the assumptions made by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
the valuation of scheme assets is based on their fair value at the balance sheet date.
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short term, their values may be subject to significant change before they are realised.
in reviewing the work of the independent actuary, management is required to exercise judgement to satisfy themselves that appropriate weight has been afforded to macro-economic factors.
details of the assumptions used are set out in Note 23. the Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
the calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
when the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised immediately as an expense in the income statement.
the Group recognises remeasurement gains and losses within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
the Group determines the net interest expense income on the net defined benefit liabilities asset for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net defined benefit liability asset, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognised in the income statement.
iii Long-term service benefits the Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than post-employment plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
the obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
iv Share-based payment transactions the share-based incentive schemes allow the Groups employees to acquire shares of millennium & Copthorne hotels plc.
the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees for awards granted after 7 November 2002 is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
the fair value is determined by using an appropriate pricing model, further details of which are given in Note 23. the cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
the cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
the income statement expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 94 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
this includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
however, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
the dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share further details are given in Note 11.
O Provisions A provision is recognised on the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
if the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Further details on provisions are given in Note 24.
P Revenue and its recognition Revenue comprises: income from the ownership and operation of hotels recognised at the point at which the accommodation and related services are provided: management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
management fees include a base fee, which is generally a percentage of hotel revenue, and or an incentive fee, which is generally based on the hotels profitability: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the contract: Franchise fees received in connection with licensing of the Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
the Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of room revenue: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the agreement: income from property rental recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term, lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income: and development property sales recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer, which is usually when legal title transfers depending on jurisdictions.
the trigger for revenue recognition depends on the laws within each jurisdiction.
Q Dividend distribution dividend distribution to the shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
R Operating segment information disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
the segments reported reflect the operating information included in internal reports that the Chief operating decision maker Codm, which is the Board, regularly reviews.
Further details are given in Note 5.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
discrete financial HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 95 information is reported to and is reviewed by the Codm on a geographical basis.
operating segments have Chief operating officers Coos or equivalent who are directly accountable for the functioning of their segments and maintain regular contact with the Group Chief executive officer and Chairman of the Codm to discuss the operational and financial performance.
the Codm makes decisions about allocation of resources to the regions managed by the Coos.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the reportable operating segments.
Segment results that are reported to the Codm include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
unallocated items principally comprise interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net finance expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
S Non-current assets held-for-sale Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified as held-for-sale.
Generally the assets or disposal group are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayment, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
impairment losses on initial classification as held-for-sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
T Other financial assets and liabilities trade investments are classified as available-for-sale assets and are included under non-current assets within other financial assets.
they are recorded at market value with movements in value taken to equity.
Any impairment to value is recorded in the income statement.
trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less any impairment.
trade and other payables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material.
U Related parties For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
3 Accounting estimates and judgements management has discussed with the Audit & Risk Committee the selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
the preparation of financial statements under iFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the year.
the Group evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis.
Such estimates and judgements are based upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Certain critical accounting policies, among others, affect the Groups more significant estimates and assumptions used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Actual results could differ from the Groups estimates and assumptions.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 96 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued 3.1 Judgements the key judgements are: Classification of investment properties the Group holds a number of investment properties and accounts for such properties in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.2h.
the Group owns assets which are leased to external third parties with lease rentals and related charges varying according to the agreement involved.
the Group accounts for such assets in its financial statements in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.2h.
where the indicators are such that on balance the Group is shown to be a passive investor, the relevant property is accounted for in accordance with iAS 40 and the Group accounts for the fair value change through the income statement as other operating income or expense.
indicators considered include 1 party that has the power to make the significant operating and financing decisions regarding the operations of the property in a management contract, 2 calculation of the lessors return, 3 lessors power of intervention under the management contract, and 4 duration of the contract.
Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a majority of voting rights fide facto control in 2014, the new consolidation accounting standard, iFRS 10 introduced a new control model that focuses on whether the Group has power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and ability to use its power to affect those returns.
this required the Group to consider whether it has fide facto control over its investees, particularly when it owned less than 50% of the voting rights.
in 2014, in accordance with the transitional provisions of iFRS 10, the Group reassessed the control conclusion for its investees and changed its control conclusion in respect of its investment in Cdl hospitality trusts Cdlht, which was previously accounted for as an associate using the equity method.
Although the Group owns less than half of the voting power of the investee, management determined that, under iFRS 10, the Group has had control over the investee since its inception.
this is because a 100% owned subsidiary of the Group, m&C Reit management limited acts as Reit manager with its fees having a performance-based element and therefore the Group has exposure to variable returns from its involvement with the investee.
Accordingly, in 2014, the Group applied acquisition accounting to the investment from the year it was first established in 2006, and restated the relevant amounts as if the investee had been consolidated from that year.
this judgement was reconsidered this year and continues to be appropriate.
Business combination For each acquisition, the Group has to make a judgement whether to account the transaction as an asset purchase or a business combination, which results in a different accounting treatment.
in particular, under business combination accounting, goodwill and additional intangible assets may arise and the valuation of acquired assets is complex.
in addition, transaction costs can be capitalised in an asset acquisition, but have to be charged through the income statement for a business combination.
the classification of each acquisition and related accounting is highly judgemental.
details of acquisitions undertaken by the Group during the year, including the specific judgements, are set out in Notes 12 and 14.
Land leases classification the Group holds a number of hotels with leases of land that are determined to have an indefinite economic life.
these are classified as a finance lease, even if at the end of the lease term title does not pass to the lessee.
in determining whether the lease of land should be accounted for as a finance or an operating lease, the following factors were considered: transfer of ownership purchase options present value of minimum lease payments in comparison to fair value of land.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 97 3.2 Estimates the key estimates are: Impairment of tangible assets the Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist or based on the annual impairment assessment.
the annual assessment requires an estimate of the recoverable value of the cash generating units to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated, which is predominantly at the individual hotel site level.
where appropriate, external valuations are also undertaken.
estimation of the recoverable value of the hotel assets is done with the reference to fair value less cost to sell, using income approach, which requires estimation of future cash flows of a third party efficient operator, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rates, terminal capitalization rates and growth rates.
the directors consider that the assumptions made represent their best estimate, and that the discount rate and terminal capitalisation rate used are appropriate given the risks associated with the specific cash flows.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed over the estimates see Note 12.
Taxation in determining the income tax assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated Statement of Financial position, the Group is required to estimate the outcome of multiple tax years remaining open to tax authority audit in each of the jurisdictions in which the Group has companies.
As such provisions for tax accruals require estimates to be made on the interpretation of tax legislation, developments in tax case law and the potential outcomes of tax audits and appeals.
the final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
in making estimates for tax provisioning purposes management makes use of in-house tax expertise, comparable third party studies prepared by professional advisors and any other information available.
in the event of an audit the Group may liaise with the relevant taxation authorities to agree an outcome.
the tax liability provided for each tax year and jurisdiction is reassessed in each period to reflect our best estimate of the probable outcome in light of all the information available.
A final position agreed with a tax authority or through expiry of a tax audit period could differ from the estimates made by us which would impact the current tax liability of 23m 2016: 35m recognised in the consolidated Statement of Financial position.
4 New standards and interpretations not yet adopted the following standards and interpretations, which have been issued by the iASB, become effective after the current year end and have not been early adopted by the Group: in January 2016, the iASB issued iFRS 16 leases.
the standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and was endorsed by the european union in November 2017. iFRS 16 results in lessees accounting for most leases within the scope of the standard in a manner similar to the way in which finance leases are currently accounted for under iAS 17 leases.
lessees will recognise a right of use asset and a corresponding financial liability on the balance sheet.
the asset will be amortised over the period of the lease and the financial liability measured at amortised cost.
lessor accounting remains substantially the same as in iAS 17. the Group is currently assessing the impact of this standard but it is not practicable to quantify the effect as at the date of the publication of these financial statements.
in may 2014, the iASB issued iFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
the standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early application permitted.
the standard was endorsed by the european union in September 2016. iFRS 15 provides a principles-based approach for revenue recognition and introduces the concept of recognising revenue for obligations as they are satisfied.
the standard should be applied retrospectively, with certain practical expedients available.
the Group has started to assess the requirements of the standard and preliminary findings suggest that there will be no material impact to revenue.
on 24 July 2014, the international Accounting Standards Board issued iFRS 9 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement which is effective for periods starting on or after 1 January 2018. iFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
debt instruments currently classified as held-to maturity and measured at amortised cost will meet the conditions for classification at amortised cost under iFRS 9. the Company believes that its current hedge relationships will qualify as continuing hedges, upon the adoption of iFRS 9. the impact of this accounting standard on the Groups accounts is considered immaterial.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 98 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued 5 Operating segment information disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
unallocated items principally comprise: interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net financial expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
Geographical segments the hotel and property operations are managed on a worldwide basis and operate in seven principal geographical areas as follows: New york Regional uS london Rest of europe including the middle east Singapore Rest of Asia Australasia the segments reported reflect the operating segment information included in the internal reports that the Chief operating decision maker Codm, which is the Board, regularly reviews.
the reportable segments are aligned with the structure of the Groups internal organisation which is based according to geographical region.
discrete financial information is reported to and is reviewed by the Codm on a geographical basis.
operating segments have Chief operating officers Coos or equivalent who are directly accountable for the functioning of their segments and who maintain regular contact with the Group Chief executive officer and Chairman of the Codm to discuss the operational and financial performance.
the results of Cdlht have been incorporated within the existing geographical regions.
in addition, Cdlht operations are reviewed separately by its board on a monthly basis.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 99 Segment results 2017 Regional Rest of Central total New york uS london europe Singapore Rest of Asia Australasia Costs Group m m m m m m m m m Revenue hotel 156 144 122 70 132 176 80 880 property operations 5 3 9 45 62 4 Reit 23 16 19 8 66 Total revenue 156 149 122 93 151 204 133 1,008 Hotel gross operating profit 23 31 60 16 54 60 39 283 1 hotel fixed charges 33 26 23 10 4 35 6 137 hotel operating profit loss 10 5 37 6 50 25 33 146 property operating profit 5 8 24 37 Reit operating profit loss 5 3 5 7 14 Central costs 35 35 2 other operating income 21 21 2 other operating expense 11 8 4 8 31 2 other operating income Reit 9 9 2 other operating expense Reit 5 11 16 Operating profit loss 21 3 37 2 52 40 73 35 145 Share of joint ventures and associates profit 3 19 22 Add: depreciation and amortisation 9 13 6 6 13 22 3 3 75 Add: Net revaluation deficit & impairment 11 8 9 10 9 29 3 EBITDA 1 18 43 20 65 91 67 32 271 less: depreciation, amortisation, net revaluation deficit & impairment 104 Net finance expense 20 Profit before tax 147 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 100 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued 2016 Regional Rest of Central total New york uS london europe Singapore Rest of Asia Australasia Costs Group m m m m m m m m m Revenue hotel 136 136 121 76 127 163 55 814 property operations 4 3 9 40 56 4 Reit 11 14 19 12 56 Total revenue 136 140 121 87 144 191 107 926 Hotel gross operating profit 21 28 60 15 52 55 25 256 1 hotel fixed charges 30 23 21 7 5 37 4 127 hotel operating profit loss 9 5 39 8 47 18 21 129 property operating profit loss 1 2 8 21 30 Reit operating profit loss 3 5 7 11 16 Central costs 26 26 2 other operating income 3 8 2 13 2 other operating expense 15 2 5 4 2 28 2 other operating expense Reit 4 10 13 27 Operating profit loss 24 5 39 2 30 26 55 26 107 Share of joint ventures and associates profit 3 23 26 Add: depreciation and amortisation 8 12 6 6 12 25 2 2 73 Add: Net revaluation deficit & impairment 15 1 9 14 7 44 3 EBITDA 1 16 45 20 56 81 57 24 250 less: depreciation, amortisation, net revaluation deficit & impairment 117 Net finance expense 25 Profit before tax 108 1 hotel fixed charges include depreciation, amortisation of lease premium prepayments, property rent, taxes and insurance, operating lease rentals and management fees.
2 See Note 7 for details of other operating income and expense.
3 eBitdA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
4 Cdlht operates the Reit business.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 101 Segmental assets and liabilities 2017 Regional Rest of total New york uS london europe Singapore Rest of Asia Australasia Group m m m m m m m m hotel operating assets 613 320 496 232 21 670 181 2,533 Reit operating assets 207 598 117 194 1,116 hotel operating liabilities 29 39 13 36 23 68 10 218 Reit operating liabilities 8 8 3 6 25 investment in joint ventures and associates 152 152 Total hotel operating net assets 584 281 483 395 588 868 359 3,558 property operating assets 36 84 176 92 388 property operating liabilities 1 2 3 2 8 investment in joint ventures and associates 31 141 172 Total property operating net assets 35 31 82 314 90 552 deferred tax liabilities 188 income taxes payable 23 Net debt 650 Net assets 3,249 2016 Regional Rest of total New york uS london europe Singapore Rest of Asia Australasia Group m m m m m m m m hotel operating assets 674 365 502 235 21 691 187 2,675 Reit operating assets 61 606 139 195 1,001 hotel operating liabilities 33 47 14 34 21 69 11 229 Reit operating liabilities 2 9 2 8 21 investment in joint ventures and associates 159 159 Total hotel operating net assets 641 318 488 260 597 918 363 3,585 property operating assets 43 85 176 94 398 property operating liabilities 1 5 3 3 12 investment in joint ventures and associates 20 141 161 Total property operating net assets 42 20 80 314 91 547 deferred tax liabilities 220 income taxes payable 35 Net debt 707 Net assets 3,170 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 102 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Geographic information 2017 2016 m m Revenue from external customers united States 305 276 united Kingdom 195 183 Singapore 151 144 New Zealand 123 98 taiwan 73 62 South Korea 47 47 China 26 25 maldives 14 14 malaysia 14 15 France 12 11 Australia 10 9 philippines 6 6 italy 6 6 indonesia 5 5 other 21 25 Total revenue per consolidated income statement 1,008 926 the revenue information above is based on the location of the business.
the 1,008m 2016: 926m revenue is constituted of 880m 2016:814m of hotel revenue, 62m 2016: 56m of property operations revenue and 66m 2016: 56m of Reit revenue.
the property operations revenue comprises 45m 2016: 40m from New Zealand, 3m 2016: 3m from Singapore and 14m 2016: 13m from other countries.
2017 2016 m m Non-current assets united States 943 1,053 united Kingdom 740 699 Singapore 692 702 China 278 286 taiwan 277 286 New Zealand 231 242 Japan 212 215 South Korea 199 199 hong Kong 108 113 Germany 94 Australia 89 122 maldives 75 94 malaysia 64 64 italy 43 42 France 37 36 Netherlands 31 20 indonesia 12 13 philippines 8 12 other 1 Total non-current assets per consolidated statement of financial position 4,133 4,199 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, lease premium prepayment, investment properties, investment in joint ventures and associates and other financial assets.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 103 6 Administrative expenses the following items are included within administrative expenses: 2017 2016 m m included in administrative expenses is the auditors remuneration, for audit and non-audit services as follows: Auditors remuneration Statutory audit services: Annual audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 Audit of subsidiary companies 2 1 3 2 Non-audit related services: tax advisory 1 1 Total 4 3 2017 2016 m m Repairs and maintenance 51 45 depreciation 72 70 lease premium amortisation 3 3 Rental paid payable under operating leases land and buildings 1 1 plant and machinery 7 5 7 Other operating income and expense 2017 2016 Notes m m Revaluation gain deficit of investment properties a Reit properties 3 27 millennium mitsui Garden hotel tokyo 9 8 Biltmore Court & tower 3 3 tanglin Shopping Centre 4 impairment of property, plant & equipment b 38 24 29 44 Gain on insurance claim c 2 Reversal of impairment of loan repayment of loan d 12 17 42 a Revaluation gain deficit of investment properties At the end of the financial year, in accordance with the Groups policy its investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an open-market existing use basis.
Based on these valuations, the revaluation gain or deficit was recorded as considered appropriate by the directors.
Further details on these valuations are provided in Note 14.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 104 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued b Impairment of property, plant & equipment the directors undertook their annual review of the carrying value of hotels and property assets for indication of impairment and where appropriate, external valuations were also obtained.
As a result of this review, the total impairment charge for the year ended 31 december 2017 was 38m consisting of 11m in New york, 6m in Rest of uS, 4m in Rest of europe and 13m in Rest of Asia.
Also included is 4m of goodwill impaired in relation to the acquisition by Cdlht of the lowry hotel in manchester in 2017.
For 2016, a total impairment charge of 24m was recognised in relation to 15m in New york, 5m in Rest of europe, 2m in Rest of Asia and 2m for Regional uS.
Further information is given in Note 12. c Gain on insurance claim in may 2016, a settlement was reached with the insurers in relation to millennium hotel Christchurch which was one of the hotels affected by the 2011 New Zealand earthquake.
A gain of 2m in respect of material damage claim relating to fixtures, fittings and equipment was recognised by the Group in the first half of 2016. the lease for this property has expired and this 2016 settlement is the last insurance claim relating to the Christchurch earthquake damage.
d Reversal of impairment of loan repayment of loan on 31 July 2017, the Group disposed of its 50% interest in Fena in exchange for a token sum and repayment of the shareholder loan, which had been impaired in earlier years.
the Group re-instated the loan on its balance sheet as at 30 June 2017 with an income of 12m recognised in the income statement.
this amount was settled during the year.
8 Personnel expenses 2017 2016 m m wages and salaries 305 277 Compulsory social security contributions 51 49 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 16 14 defined benefit pension gain cost recorded in the statement of comprehensive income 4 10 defined benefit pension cost recorded in the income statement 2 2 equity-settled share-based payment transactions 370 352 the average number of employees employed by the Group including directors during the year analysed by category was as follows: 2017 2016 Number Number hotel operating staff 9,020 8,397 management administration 1,439 1,481 Sales and marketing 461 468 Repairs and maintenance 682 650 11,602 10,996 Directors remuneration 2017 2016 m m Remuneration 1 2 Received by the directors under: long-term incentive schemes pensions 1 2 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 105 9 Net finance expense 2017 2016 m m interest income 5 3 interest receivable from joint ventures and associates 1 Foreign exchange gain 6 3 Finance income 11 7 interest expense 26 23 Foreign exchange loss 5 9 Finance expense 31 32 Net finance expense 20 25 10 Income tax expense 2017 2016 m m Current tax Corporation tax charge for the year 38 30 Release of tax provision during the year 17 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1 total current tax expense 22 30 Deferred tax Note 26 origination and reversal of timing differences 14 2 effect of change in tax rate on opening deferred taxes 1 3 Benefits of tax losses recognised 18 15 underprovision in respect of prior years 1 total deferred tax credit 34 20 Total income tax credit charge in the consolidated income statement 12 10 uK 5 8 overseas 17 2 Total income tax credit charge in the consolidated income statement 12 10 For the year ended 31 december 2017, the Group has a tax charge of 5m 2016: 10m excluding the tax relating to joint ventures and associates.
together with the release of a total of 17m provision in relation to exposures in Singapore that were finalised in 2017, the Group recorded a tax credit of 12m.
the effective tax rate relating to the tax charge of 5m before the release of provision is 4.2% 2016: 12.2%.
the effective tax rate has been affected by a number of factors which include the following items: other income and expense of the Group: Reduced tax rates applied to brought forward net deferred tax liabilities in the uS: and tax adjustments in respect of previous years.
excluding the impact of the items noted above, the Groups underlying effective tax rate is 9.2% 2016: 15.4%.
the uS enacted a corporate tax reform in december 2017. the future reduction in the uS corporate income tax rate has reduced the carrying values of both deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting in an immaterial net impact to the current year results.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 106 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued For the year ended 31 december 2017, a charge of 7m 2016: 3m relating to joint ventures and associates is included in the profit before tax.
Adjustments in respect of settlement of prior years tax liabilities the Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
the calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
the final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
the geographical complexity of the Groups structure makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
the resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the efficacy of the legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Income tax reconciliation 2017 2016 m m Profit before income tax in consolidated income statement 147 108 less share of profits of joint ventures and associates 22 26 Profit on ordinary activities excluding share of joint ventures and associates 125 82 income tax on ordinary activities at the standard rate of uK tax of 19.25% 2016: 20.00% 24 16 tax exempt income 23 11 Non-deductible expenses 2 5 use of brought forward previously unrecognised tax losses 2 1 other effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 3 3 effect of change in tax rate on opening deferred taxes 1 3 other adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 2 1 Release of tax provision during the year 17 Income tax credit expense per consolidated income statement 12 10 11 Earnings per share earnings per share are calculated using the following information: 2017 2016 a Basic profit for the year attributable to holders of the parent m 124 78 weighted average number of shares in issue m 325 325 Basic earnings per share pence 38.1p 24.0p b Diluted profit for the year attributable to holders of the parent m 124 78 weighted average number of shares in issue m 325 325 potentially dilutive share options under the Groups share option schemes m weighted average number of shares in issue diluted m 325 325 Diluted earnings per share pence 38.1p 24.0p HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 107 12 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, fittings land and Capital work in plant and and equipment buildings progress machinery and vehicles total m m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2016 2,847 42 258 289 3,436 Additions others 4 57 12 26 99 Adjustments 7 7 transfers from investment properties 49 11 60 transfers 2 12 2 8 disposals 1 1 3 5 written off 16 16 Foreign exchange adjustments 405 10 59 64 538 Balance at 31 december 2016 3,299 97 341 368 4,105 Balance at 1 January 2017 3,299 97 341 368 4,105 Additions others 14 6 15 18 53 Adjustments 2 2 Acquisition through business combination 47 2 3 52 transfers 43 59 4 12 disposals 1 1 2 written off 2 9 11 Foreign exchange adjustments 106 4 12 10 132 Balance at 31 December 2017 3,297 36 349 381 4,063 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Balance at 1 January 2016 378 1 92 201 672 Charge for the year 25 13 32 70 impairment 26 2 28 disposals 1 3 4 written off 1 15 16 Foreign exchange adjustments 57 17 43 117 Balance at 31 december 2016 486 1 122 258 867 Balance at 1 January 2017 486 1 122 258 867 Charge for the year 22 15 35 72 impairment 31 3 34 disposals 1 1 written off 9 9 Foreign exchange adjustments 19 5 5 29 Balance at 31 December 2017 520 1 135 278 934 Carrying amounts At 31 December 2017 2,777 35 214 103 3,129 At 31 december 2016 2,813 96 219 110 3,238 the carrying value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases at 31 december 2017 was nil 2016: nil.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 108 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued a Impairment property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment based on each cash generating unit CGu.
the CGus are individual hotels.
the carrying value of individual hotels was compared to the recoverable amount of the hotels, which was derived with the reference to fair value through creation of discount cash flow models.
under this methodology, the fair value measurement reflects current market expectations about the third party efficient operator is future cash flows, discounted to their present value.
the underlying basis for the impairment model involves each hotels projected cash flow for the financial year ending 31 december 2018, extrapolated to incorporate individual assumptions in respect of revenue growth principally factoring in room rate and occupancy growth and major expense lines.
the future cash flows are based on assumptions about competitive growth rates for hotels in that area, as well as internal business plans.
these plans and forecasts include managements most recent view of trading prospects for the hotel in the relevant market.
where appropriate, the directors sought guidance on value from a registered independent appraiser with an appropriately recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the hotel being valued.
on the basis of external valuations in 2017, the Group recorded an impairment charge of 34m consisting of 11m in New york, 13m in Rest of Asia, 6m for Rest of uS and 4m in Rest of europe.
For 2016, a total impairment charge of 28m including the impairment of a Reit property of 4m was recognised in relation to 15m in New york, 5m in Rest of europe, 2m in Rest of Asia and 2m for Regional uS.
Further information is given in Note 12.
Circumstances and events that led to the impairment are disclosed in the Financial performance review on page 11. b Key assumptions used by the external appraisers the key assumptions used were as follows: pre-tax discount rate the discount rate is based on the country in which the hotel is located and is adjusted for risks associated with the hotel.
discount rates ranged from 6% to 12% in the uS, 8% to 12% in europe and 10% in Asia.
occupancy rate the occupancy growth rates ranged from 2% to 13% in the uS, 1% to 17% in europe and 3% to 9% in Asia.
Average room rate the average room rate growth ranged from 2% to 6% in the uS, 1% to 25% in europe and 1% to 12% in Asia.
terminal rate these rates ranged from 7% to 10% in the uS, 6% to 9% in europe and 4% to 8% in Asia.
the forecasts cover a five to ten year period, and cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using a growth rate ranging between 2% and 3%, which is based upon the expected trading growth for each hotel and inflation in the country.
c Sensitivities the Groups impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used, most notably the discount rates and revenue growth assumptions.
Based on the Groups sensitivity analysis, a reasonably possible change in a single factor could result in impairment in certain hotels in london, Regional uK, Regional uS, Asia and Australasia as their fair value currently exceeds their carrying value only by a small percentage.
d Land and buildings land and buildings includes long leasehold building assets with a book value of 669m 2016: 645m.
the net book value of land and buildings held under short leases was 105m 2016: 109m, in respect of which depreciation of 3m 2016: 2m was charged during the year.
No interest was capitalised within land and buildings during the year 2016: nil.
the cumulative capitalised interest within land and buildings is 5m 2016: 5m.
e Pledged assets At year-end, the net book value of assets pledged as collateral for secured loans was 458m 2016: 526m.
the security for the loans is by way of charges on the properties of the Group companies concerned.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 109 f Business combination on 4 may 2017, the hBt Group acquired 100% of the shares and voting interests in the lowry hotel ltd lhl the uK Acquisition for a total consideration of 53m.
the hBt Group acquired lhl which owns the lowry hotel in manchester the uK property.
the uK Acquisition is expected to benefit the holders of Stapled Securities by broadening the Stapled Groups earnings base and will also have the benefit of improving the geographical diversification of the Stapled Groups portfolio.
the acquisition was accounted for as a business combination as the hBt Group had acquired various operational processes, together with the uK property.
From the date of acquisition to 31 december 2017, lhl contributed revenue of 9m and net profit before tax of 1m to the hBt Groups results.
if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017, the hBt trustee-manager estimates that the hBt Groups revenue would have been 38m and the hBt Groups net profit before tax for the year would have been 4m.
in determining these amounts, hBt trusteemanager has assumed that the fair value adjustments, determined provisionally, that arose on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed the following table summarises the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.
m property, plant and equipment 52 trade and other receivables 2 Cash at bank 2 trade and other payables 3 Shareholders loan 22 deferred tax liabilities 4 total identifiable net assets 27 Measurement of fair values the valuation techniques used for measuring the fair value of material assets acquired were as follows: Assets acquired valuation techniques property, plant and equipment market comparison technique and discounted cash flow technique: the market comparison technique involves the analysis of comparable sales of similar assets and adjusting the sale prices to that reflective of the uK property.
the discounted cash flow method involves forecasting the uK propertys income stream for 10 years and discounting the income stream at 8.25%.
Goodwill Goodwill arising from the uK Acquisition has been recognised as follows: m total Consideration transferred 53 Fair value of identifiable net assets 27 Shareholders loan assumed 22 Goodwill 4 impairment loss on goodwill 4 the hBt Group has undertaken an impairment assessment of the goodwill arising from the uK Acquisition.
the recoverable amount was estimated using the fair value less costs to sell approach, taking into consideration the fair value of the underlying property based on the valuation techniques and assumptions described in the table above level 3 fair value.
Based on this assessment, the goodwill was fully impaired.
the impairment loss was recognised in other operating expense in the consolidated income statement.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 110 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Consideration transferred m Cash paid 53 effect of the acquisition of lhl on cash flows: total consideration for 100% equity interest acquired 53 Add: Acquisition-related costs 1 less: Cash at bank of subsidiary acquired 2 less: Acquisition-related costs not yet paid 1 Net cash outflow on acquisition 52 1 included in cash flows from investing activities.
Acquisition-related costs the hBt Group incurred a one-off transaction cost of 1m comprising of legal and due diligence costs.
these costs have been included in the consolidated income statement.
13 Lease premium prepayment 2017 m Cost Balance at 1 January 2017 129 Foreign exchange adjustments 3 Balance at 31 december 2017 126 Amortisation Balance at 1 January 2017 20 Charge for the year 3 Foreign exchange adjustments 2 Balance at 31 december 2017 21 Carrying amount at 31 december 2017 105 Analysed between: Amount due after more than one year included in non-current assets 103 Amount due within one year included in current assets 2 105 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 111 14 Investment properties Completed investment properties comprise tanglin Shopping Centre, Biltmore Court & tower, Cdlht properties and millennium mitsui Garden hotel tokyo.
investment properties under construction represents the land site at Sunnyvale.
movements in the year analysed as: investment Completed properties investment under properties construction total m m m Balance at 1 January 2016 499 7 506 transfers 60 60 Additions 2 2 Adjustment to fair value 12 12 Foreign exchange adjustment 96 2 98 Balance at 31 December 2016 525 9 534 Balance at 1 January 2017 525 9 534 transfer to current asset held for sale 41 41 Additions 2 2 Acquisition of property 94 94 Adjustment to fair value 9 9 Foreign exchange adjustment 21 21 Balance at 31 December 2017 568 9 577 in general, the carrying amount of investment property other than those under construction is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent appraiser having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued.
Fair values were determined having regard to recent market transactions for similar properties in the same location as the Groups investment property.
only the land site at Sunnyvale, California, is classified as investment properties under construction at 31 december 2017 as the project of building a hotel and an apartment complex is still in progress.
this asset is carried at cost on the balance sheet.
the Groups investment properties were subject to external professional valuation on an open market existing use basis by the following accredited independent valuers: properties valuers tanglin Shopping Centre, Singapore edmund tie & Company SeA pte ltd Biltmore Court & tower, los Angeles Sequoia hotel Advisors, llC land site at Sunnyvale, California Sequoia hotel Advisors, llC millennium mitsui Garden hotel tokyo Jones lang laSalle KK Cdlht Singapore property CBRe pte ltd Cdlht Australia properties Jones lang laSalle property Consultants pte ltd Cdlht maldives property CBRe pte ltd Cdlht Germany property CBRe pte ltd Based on these valuations together with such considerations as the directors consider appropriate, millennium mitsui Garden hotel tokyo and Biltmore Court & tower recorded a revaluation gain of 9m 2016: revaluation gain 8m and a revaluation deficit of 3m 2016: revaluation gain 3m respectively.
tanglin Shopping Centre recorded an immaterial revaluation deficit 2016: revaluation deficit 4m.
in addition, the Reit properties recorded a net revaluation surplus of 3m 2016: revaluation deficit of 27m.
All the other investment properties recorded no change and no impairment was identified.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 112 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Fair value hierarchy the fair value measurement for investment properties not under construction of 568m 2016: 525m has been categorised as a level 3 fair value based on inputs to the valuation technique used.
Valuation technique and significant unobservable inputs the following table shows the valuation technique used in measuring the fair value of investment property, as well as significant unobservable inputs used.
inter-relationship between key unobservable inputs and valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs fair value measurement the technique applied in the valuation of the tanglin Tanglin Shopping Centre the estimated fair value would increase decrease Shopping Centre is based on market comparison of open market values for other properties.
if: sales of similar properties in the vicinity.
Further adjustments are made to this value to account for Biltmore Court & Tower expected market rental growth were higher lower : differences in location, size, tenure, view, accessibility, discount rate of between 8% to 10.5% and and condition and other factors.
Risk adjusted discount rate was lower higher, Biltmore Court & tower and millennium mitsui Garden Millennium Mitsui Garden Hotel Tokyo capitalisation rate was higher lower and terminal hotel tokyo were valued using a discounted cash flow discount rate of 4.1% and capitalisation rate of 4.3%.
technique based on expected rental income and discount rate appropriate for the property.
CDLHT investment properties discount rate of between 6% and 10%, capitalisation rate of 5% to investment properties held by the Reit were valued 8% and terminal yield of 5% to 8%.
using the discounted cash flow, capitalisation or comparison techniques.
Further details in respect of investment property rentals are given in Note 31.
Acquisition of property on 14July 2017, the h-Reit Group acquired 94.9% of the shares and voting interests in NKS hospitality i B. v. NKS and munich Furniture B. v. FurnitureCo collectively, the German Acquisition for a total consideration of e101m 89m.
the h-Reit Group acquired NKS and FurnitureCo which own pullman hotel munich the German hotel and its office and retail components collectively, the German property.
the acquisition was accounted for as an acquisition of assets.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 113 Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed the following table summarises the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.
em m investment property 107 94 deferred tax assets trade and other receivables Cash at bank 3 3 trade and other payables Borrowings 45 40 total identifiable net assets 65 55 less: Non-controlling interest, based on their proportionate interest in the recognised amounts of the assets and liabilities of the acquiree 3 3 identifiable net assets acquired 62 52 Consideration transferred em m Cash paid 101 89 effect of the acquisition of NKS and FurnitureCo on cash flows: total consideration for 94.9% equity interest acquired 59 52 Add: Borrowings assumed 43 38 Add: Acquisition-related costs 3 3 less: Cash at bank of subsidiaries acquired 3 3 less: Consideration not yet paid 2 2 1 Net cash outflow on acquisition 100 88 1 included in cash flows from investing activities.
15 Investments in joint ventures and associates the Group has the following investments in joint ventures and associates: Fair value of ownership effective Group interest principal place interest of business m 2017 2016 Joint ventures New unity holdings limited New unity hong Kong 50% 50% Fena estate Company limited Fena thailand 50% Fergurson hotel management limited hong Kong 50% 50% Associate First Sponsor Group limited First Sponsor peoples Republic of China 166 36% 36% prestons Road limited New Zealand 13% Cdl hotels Japan pte.
ltd. Singapore 40% 40% the Group has 50% in New unity which operates the Groups hotel business in hong Kong.
First Sponsor is a property company which is listed on the Singapore exchange and has interests in China and the Netherlands.
it is also involved in the Chinese property financing business which carries additional risk of recoverability of certain assets.
on 31 July 2017 the Group, via its subsidiary company, City hotels pte ltd. disposed of its 50% interest in Fena estate Co. ltd. in exchange for a token payment.
Fena is the owner of pullman Bangkok Grande Sukhumvit formerly Grand millennium Sukhumvit Bangkok.
there was no carrying book value on the Groups balance sheet for this investment, which had been impaired in previous years.
in conjunction 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 114 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued with the transaction, there was repayment of a shareholders loan which had also been fully impaired.
the Group re-instated the loan on its balance sheet during the year and an income of 12m was recognised in the income statement.
Joint total ventures Associates m Share of net assets cost Balance at 1 January 2016 89 166 255 Share of profit for the year 4 22 26 dividends received 2 2 Foreign exchange adjustments 20 21 41 Balance at 31 december 2016 113 207 320 Balance at 1 January 2017 113 207 320 Share of profit for the year 5 17 22 dividends received 2 2 Foreign exchange adjustments 10 6 16 Balance at 31 December 2017 108 216 324 the following is summarised financial information for First Sponsor and New unity based on their respective financial statements prepared in accordance with iFRS.
these are considered to be the most significant investments in joint ventures and associates.
First Sponsor New unity 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Non-current assets 508 262 340 414 Current assets 667 749 94 108 Non-current liabilities 356 200 124 206 Current liabilities 211 230 29 28 Total assets less total liabilities 608 581 281 288 less: Non-controlling interest 4 3 66 62 Net assets 100% 604 578 215 226 Groups share 216 207 108 113 Revenue 216 101 128 118 operating profit 63 52 25 24 interest income 5 11 2 1 income tax expense 16 2 4 5 Profit for the year 52 61 19 18 Non-controlling interests 3 1 10 9 profit for the year after non-controlling interests 49 60 9 9 other comprehensive income 12 27 Profit and total comprehensive income 100% 37 33 9 9 Groups share of profit and total comprehensive income 13 12 5 4 Dividends received by the Group 2 2 At 31 december 2017, the Groups share of the total capital commitments of joint ventures and associates amounted to 18m 2016: 15m.
At 31december 2017, the Groups joint ventures and associates had no contingent liabilities 2016: nil.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 115 16 Other financial assets there are no financial assets as at 31 december 2017 2016: nil.
17 Inventories 2017 2016 m m Consumables 4 5 18 Development properties 2017 2016 m m development properties comprise: development land for resale New Zealand landbank 66 66 development properties Zenith Residences 27 27 93 93 19 Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 m m trade receivables 41 39 other receivables 19 27 prepayments and accrued income 28 29 88 95 trade receivables are shown net of an impairment allowance of 3m 2016: 2m relating to the likely insolvencies of certain customers and non-recoverability of debts.
the Groups exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 22.
20 Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 209 223 Short-term deposits 205 194 Cash pool overdrafts 60 80 Cash and cash equivalents on the statement of financial position 354 337 overdrafts included in borrowings Cash and cash equivalents shown in the cash flow statement 354 337 the Groups exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets are disclosed in Note 22.
As at 31 december 2017, 1m 2016: nil of the cash balance was restricted.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 116 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued 21 Interest-bearing loans, bonds and borrowings 2017 2016 m m included within non-current liabilities: Bank loans 553 628 Bonds payable 238 323 791 951 included within current liabilities: Bank loans and overdrafts 146 93 Bonds payable 67 213 93 Further details in respect of financial liabilities are given in Note 22.
22 Financial instruments Overview the Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk: liquidity risk: and market risk.
this note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, and the Groups policies and processes for measuring and managing risk.
a Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investment securities.
exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis, with credit checks performed on all clients requiring credit over certain amounts.
Credit is not extended beyond authorised limits, established where appropriate through consultation with a professional credit vetting organisation.
Credit granted is subject to regular review, to ensure it remains consistent with the clients current creditworthiness and appropriate to the anticipated volume of business.
investments are allowed only in liquid short-term instruments within approved limits, with investment counterparties approved by the Board, such that the exposure to a single counterparty is minimised.
the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of each financial asset on the balance sheet, these being spread across the various currencies and jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 117 the maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Carrying value 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand see Note 20 209 223 Short-term deposits see Note 20 205 194 trade receivables see Note 19 41 39 other receivables see Note 19 19 27 474 483 the maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: Carrying value 2017 2016 m m New york 7 6 Regional uS 4 4 Rest of europe 7 7 Singapore 7 8 Rest of Asia 11 8 Australasia 5 6 41 39 the ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: Gross receivable impairment allowance Carrying value 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Not past due 27 21 27 21 past due 0 30 days 10 10 10 10 past due 31 60 days 3 3 3 3 past due 61 90 days 1 3 1 3 more than 90 days 3 4 3 2 2 44 41 3 2 41 39 the movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2017 2016 m m Balance at 1 January 2 2 impairment recognised 1 Balance at 31 december 3 2 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 118 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Contractual maturities of financial assets 2017 6 months 6 months 1 - 5 more than total or less - 1 year years 5 years m m m m m Financial Assets Fixed Rate Sterling uS dollar 13 13 Korean won 6 6 Singapore dollar 90 90 New taiwan dollar 18 18 Australian dollar 5 5 New Zealand dollar 65 65 malaysian Ringgit 18 18 euro 1 1 Chinese Renminbi 17 17 others 1 1 Non-Interest Bearing Sterling 29 29 uS dollar 32 32 Singapore dollar 18 18 New taiwan dollar 1 1 malaysian Ringgit 1 1 euro 17 17 Japanese yen 14 14 others 13 13 Interest Bearing Cash Pool deposits Singapore dollar 53 53 Japanese yen 2 2 Total cash and other financial assets 414 414 Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling 24 24 hong Kong dollar 22 22 Non-Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling 14 14 Total overdrafts Note 20 60 60 354 354 Represented by: Cash and cash equivalents Note 20 354 354 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 119 Contractual maturities of financial assets 2016 6 months 6 months 1 - 5 more than total or less - 1 year years 5 years m m m m m Financial Assets Fixed Rate Sterling 24 24 uS dollar 24 24 Korean won 5 5 Singapore dollar 87 87 New taiwan dollar 12 12 Australian dollar 4 4 New Zealand dollar 55 55 malaysian Ringgit 15 15 euro 3 3 Chinese Renminbi 17 17 Non-Interest Bearing Sterling 21 21 uS dollar 22 22 Singapore dollar 21 21 malaysian Ringgit 1 1 euro 14 14 Japanese yen 11 11 others 11 11 Interest Bearing Cash Pool deposits Singapore dollar 70 70 Total cash and other financial assets 417 417 Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling 33 33 euro 6 6 hong Kong dollar 28 28 Non-Interest Bearing Cash Pool Overdrafts Sterling 13 13 Total overdrafts Note 20 80 80 337 337 Represented by: Cash and cash equivalents Note 20 337 337 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 120 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued b Liquidity risk liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
the Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
the following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments using the interest rates prevailing as at the reporting date.
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Carrying Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 more than amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 31 december 2017 m m m m m m m Floating rate financial liabilities Secured loans 65 68 3 3 62 unsecured loans 423 449 29 84 51 285 Secured bonds 39 39 39 unsecured bonds 149 159 2 2 77 78 overdraft Fixed rate financial liabilities unsecured loans 210 221 39 2 91 89 unsecured bonds 67 68 1 67 Secured bonds 51 51 51 Trade and other payables trade payables 27 27 27 other creditors 61 61 61 Non-current liabilities other non-current liabilities 13 13 2 11 1,105 1,156 162 158 281 544 11 Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Carrying Contractual 6 months 6-12 1-2 2-5 more than amount cash flows or less months years years 5 years 31 december 2016 m m m m m m m Floating rate financial liabilities Secured loans 72 78 6 2 4 66 unsecured loans 387 399 26 62 151 160 Secured bonds 19 25 1 1 2 21 unsecured bonds 163 170 1 1 2 166 Fixed rate financial liabilities unsecured loans 261 279 3 3 66 207 unsecured bonds 67 68 68 Secured bonds 75 80 1 1 1 77 Trade and other payables trade payables 35 35 35 other creditors 59 59 53 6 Non-current liabilities other non-current liabilities 14 14 3 11 1,152 1,207 126 76 294 700 11 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 121 Undrawn committed borrowing facilities At 31 december 2017, the Group had 556m 2016: 546m of undrawn and committed facilities available, comprising committed revolving credit facilities which provide the Group with financial flexibility.
maturities of these facilities are set out in the following table.
the conditions precedent to the availability of these facilities are all satisfied at the balance sheet date.
2017 2016 m m expiring in one year or less 295 209 expiring after more than one year but not more than two years 69 153 expiring after more than two years but not more than five years 192 184 expiring after more than five years total undrawn committed borrowing facilities 556 546 total undrawn uncommitted borrowing facilities 43 51 total undrawn borrowing facilities 599 597 Security included within the Groups total bank loans and overdrafts of 703m 2016: 721m, 65m 2016: 72m are secured loans and overdrafts.
total bonds and notes payable of 216m 2016: 230m are unsecured.
loans, bonds and notes are secured on land and buildings with a carrying value of 458m 2016: 526m and an assignment of insurance proceeds in respect of insurances over the mortgaged properties.
of the Groups total facilities of 1,603m, 599m matures within 12 months comprising nil unsecured bonds and notes, 188m committed revolving credit facilities, 38m uncommitted facilities and overdrafts subject to annual renewal, 370m unsecured term loans and 3m secured term loans.
plans for refinancing the facilities are underway.
c Market risk market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
the primary objectives of the treasury function are to provide secure and competitively priced funding for the activities of the Group and to identify and manage financial risks, including exposure to movements in interest and foreign exchange rates arising from those activities.
if appropriate, the Group uses financial instruments and derivatives to manage these risks, as set out below.
i Foreign currency risk the Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on revenue, purchases, borrowings and cash deposits denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective Group entities.
the currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily uS dollars, Singapore dollars, New Zealand dollars, New taiwan dollars, Korean won, Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen and euro.
the Groups principal policy, wherever possible, is to maintain a natural hedge whereby liabilities are matched with assets denominated in the same currency.
Foreign currency investment exposure is also minimised by borrowing in the currency of the investment.
to mitigate foreign currency translation exposure, an appropriate proportion of net assets are designated as hedged against corresponding financial liabilities in the same currency.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 122 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Net investment hedging the Group has uS$163m 2016: uS$162m uS dollar loans and overdrafts and 7m 2016: 61m euro loans and overdrafts designated as hedges of corresponding respective proportions of its net investment in foreign operations whose functional currencies are uS dollars and euros.
the risk being hedged is the foreign currency exposure on the carrying amount of the net assets of the foreign operation upon consolidation.
the fair value of the hedging instruments as at 31december 2017 was 128m 2016: 188m.
An analysis of borrowings by currency and their fair values as at 31 december is given below: 31 December 2017 31 december 2016 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Sterling 120 120 66 66 Singapore dollar 211 211 240 240 Australia dollar 55 55 uS dollar 432 432 415 415 New Zealand dollar 35 35 37 37 Chinese renminbi 30 30 34 34 Japanese yen 111 111 117 117 New taiwan dollar 4 4 11 11 Korean won 24 24 23 23 euro 37 37 46 46 1,004 1,004 1,044 1,044 exchange differences arising on foreign currency loans during each accounting period are recognised as a component of equity, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
the foreign exchange exposure arising on the Groups net investment in its subsidiaries is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the exposure arising on the Groups foreign currency borrowings.
however during the year there was an immaterial amount 2016: nil recognised in the consolidated income statement that arose from hedges of net investments in foreign operations that were considered to be ineffective.
Foreign currency transaction exposure is primarily managed through funding of purchases from operating income streams arising in the same currency.
hedging of transaction exposure is undertaken with approved counterparties and within designated limits, using spot or short-term forward contracts to buy or sell the currency concerned, once the timing and the underlying amount of exposure have been determined.
Foreign exchange derivatives may also be used to hedge specific transaction exposure where appropriate.
there are no foreign exchange derivatives in place at 31 december 2017. the following significant exchange rates applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate 2017 2016 2017 2016 uS dollar 1.290 1.355 1.339 1.228 Singapore dollar 1.782 1.879 1.796 1.781 New taiwan dollar 39.338 43.700 40.083 39.679 New Zealand dollar 1.814 1.952 1.896 1.772 malaysian ringgit 5.544 5.640 5.473 5.503 Korean won 1,455.88 1,576.43 1,438.03 1,486.48 Chinese renminbi 8.722 9.008 8.779 8.537 euro 1.143 1.231 1.127 1.174 Japanese yen 144.878 147.961 151.569 144.311 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 123 Sensitivity analysis with respect to the Groups foreign currency exposure, and assuming that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant, it is estimated that a 10% strengthening of sterling against the following currencies at 31 december 2017 31 december 2016: 10% would have increased decreased equity and profit before tax by the amounts shown below: 31 December 2017 31 december 2016 Profit profit Equity before tax equity before tax m m m m uS dollar 33 4 38 1 Australian dollar 8 1 3 Singapore dollar 5 4 5 1 New taiwan dollar 1 1 New Zealand dollar 1 4 6 3 euro 3 9 Chinese renminbi 4 2 4 hong Kong dollar 1 1 Japanese yen 2 2 2 1 thai Baht 1 30 12 41 8 A 10% weakening of sterling against the above currencies at 31 december 2017 31 december 2016: 10% would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
ii Interest rate risk and interest rate swaps the Group adopts a policy of ongoing review of its exposure to changes in interest rates on its borrowings, taking into account market expectations with regard to the perceived level of risk associated with each currency, the maturity profile and cash flows of the underlying debt, and the extent to which debt may potentially be either prepaid prior to its maturity or refinanced at reduced cost.
the Groups policy is to maintain a mixture of its financial liabilities on a fixed and floating-rate basis with a greater emphasis on floating rates presently as this flexibility is considered to be appropriate in the context of the Groups overall geographical diversity, investment and business cycle and the stability of the income streams, cash balances and loan covenants.
interest rate derivatives are used to manage interest rate risk, to the extent that the perceived cost is considered to outweigh the benefit from the flexibility of variable rate borrowings, and the Group actively monitors the need and timing for such derivatives.
where used, interest rate derivatives are classified as cash flow hedges and stated at fair value within the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
Further details of interest rate derivatives in place at 31 december 2017 are provided hereafter.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments Assuming that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant, a change of one percentage point in the average interest rates applicable to variable rate instruments for the year would have increased decreased the Groups profit before tax for the year as shown below: 31 December 2017 31 december 2016 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease m m m m variable rate financial assets 2 2 2 2 variable rate financial liabilities 10 10 11 11 Cash flow sensitivity net 8 8 9 9 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 124 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued d Fair value Set out below is a comparison of the fair and book values of all the Groups financial instruments by category.
Fair values are determined by reference to market values, where available, or calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
2017 2017 2016 2016 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 209 209 223 223 Short-term deposits 205 205 194 194 Cash pool overdrafts 60 60 80 80 Loans and receivables trade receivables 41 41 39 39 other receivables 19 19 29 29 414 414 405 405 Financial liabilities overdrafts and borrowings 1,004 1,004 1,044 1,044 trade payables 27 27 35 35 other creditors 61 61 59 59 other non-current liabilities 13 13 14 14 1,105 1,105 1,152 1,152 Estimation of fair values the following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Derivatives Forward exchange contracts are either marked to market using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting the current spot rate.
For interest rate swaps, bank valuations are used.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
Finance lease liabilities the fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for similar lease agreements.
the estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
Trade and other receivables payables For receivables payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All other receivables payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
Interest rates used for determining fair value prevailing market interest rates are used to discount cash flows to determine the fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
Fair value hierarchy As at 31 december 2017, the Group held certain financial instruments measured at fair value.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 125 the Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly level 3: techniques that use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data during the year ended 31 december 2017 there were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of level 3 fair value measures.
Capital management the Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
the Companys objective for managing its capital is to ensure that Group entities will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders, as well as sustaining the future development of its business.
in order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may alter the total amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, draw down additional debt or reduce debt.
the Groups capital structure consists of debt, which includes the loans and borrowings disclosed in Note 21, cash and cash equivalents disclosed in Note 20 and the equity attributable to the parent, comprising share capital, reserves and retained earnings, as disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
the Group seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
one of the Groups subsidiaries, Cdlht which is a stapled group comprising Cdl hospitality Real estate investment trust h-Reit and Cdl hospitality Business trust hBt, a business trust, is required to maintain certain minimum base capital and financial resources.
h-Reit is subject to the aggregate leverage limit as defined in the property Fund Appendix of the Code on Collective investment Schemes CiS Code issued by monetary Authority of Singapore.
the CiS Code stipulates that the total borrowings and deferred payments together the Aggregate leverage of a property fund should not exceed 45.0% of its deposited property except that the Aggregate leverage of a property fund may exceed 45.0% of its deposited property up to a maximum of 60.0% if a credit rating of the property fund from Fitch inc. moodys or Standard and poors is obtained and disclosed to the public.
the property fund should continue to maintain and disclose a credit rating so long as its Aggregate leverage exceeds 45.0% of its deposited property.
For this financial year, h-Reit has a credit rating of BBBfrom Fitch inc. the Aggregate leverage of h-Reit as at 31 december 2017 was 32.6% 2016: 36.8% of h-Reits deposited property.
this complied with the aggregate leverage limit as described above.
hBt, h-Reit and Cdlht have complied with the borrowing limit requirements imposed by the relevant trust deeds and all externally imposed capital requirements for the financial years ended 31 december 2017 and 2016. except for the above, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 126 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued 23 Employee benefits Pension arrangements the Group operates various funded pension schemes which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
the most significant funds are described below.
United Kingdom the pension arrangements in the united Kingdom operate under the millennium & Copthorne pension plan, which was set up in 1993. the plan operates a funded defined benefit arrangement together with a defined contribution plan, both with different categories of membership.
the defined benefit section of the plan was closed to new entrants in 2001 and at the same time rights to a guaranteed minimum pension Gmp under the defined contribution scheme also ceased.
the plan entitles a retired employee to receive an annual pension payment.
the contributions required are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit credit method.
the last full actuarial valuation of this scheme was carried out by a qualified independent actuary as at 5 April 2017 and this has been updated on an approximate basis to 31 december 2017. the contributions of the Group during the year were 24% 2016: 24% of pensionable salary.
As the defined benefit section is closed to new entrants, the current service cost, as a percentage of pensionable payroll is likely to increase as the membership ages, although it will be applied to a decreasing pensionable payroll.
the assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to the discount rate and the rates of increase in salaries and pensions.
South Korea the Group operates a defined benefit pension plan for its employees in South Korea.
the contributions required are determined by an external qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
the most recent valuation was carried out on 31 december 2017. the assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuations are those relating to the discount rate and rate of increase in salaries.
Taiwan the Group operates a defined benefit pension plan for its employees in taiwan.
the most recent valuation was carried out on 31 december 2017. the contributions of the Group were 6% 2016: 6% of the employees earnings.
the assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuations are those relating to the discount rate and rate of increase in salaries.
the defined benefit plans are administered by pension funds that are legally separated from the Group.
the boards of the pension funds are required by law to act in the best interests of the plan participants.
these defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
the above plans are substantially funded by the Groups subsidiaries.
the funding requirements are based on the pension funds actuarial measurement framework set out in the funding policies of the plans.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 127 the assets of each scheme have been taken at market value and the liabilities have been calculated using the following principal assumptions: 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 UK South Korea Taiwan uK South Korea taiwan inflation rate 3.5% 3.0% 3.5% 3.0% discount rate 2.5% 3.0% 1.0% 2.7% 2.8% 1.0% Rate of salary increase 4.0% 3.0% 3.0% 4.0% 4.0% 3.0% Rate of pension increases 3.5% 3.5% Rate of revaluation 2.5% 2.5% Annual expected return on plan assets 2.5% 3.0% 1.0% 2.7% 2.8% 1.0% the assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
the present values of the schemes liabilities are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and are inherently uncertain.
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions consistent, would have altered the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below: Defined benefit obligation 2017 2017 2016 2016 Increase Decrease increase decrease m m m m discount rate 1% movement 14 14 11 11 Rate of salary increase 1% movement 2 2 2 2 Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plans, it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
Amounts recognised on the balance sheet are as follows: 2017 2016 2017 South 2017 2017 2017 2016 South 2016 2016 2016 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total uK Korea taiwan other total m m m m m m m m m m present value of funded obligations 74 5 11 2 92 75 5 11 2 93 Fair value of plan assets 63 5 5 73 60 5 5 70 plan deficit 11 6 2 19 15 6 2 23 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 128 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2017 2016 2017 South 2017 2017 2017 2016 South 2016 2016 2016 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total uK Korea taiwan other total m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 75 5 11 2 93 61 4 9 1 75 Current service cost 1 1 interest cost 2 2 2 1 3 Benefits paid, death in service insurance premiums and expenses 2 1 1 4 2 1 1 4 Remeasurement losses gains arising from: Financial assumptions 1 14 1 15 demographic assumptions 1 experience adjustment 2 2 Foreign exchange adjustments 1 1 2 1 2 1 1 3 Balance at 31 december 74 5 11 2 92 75 5 11 2 93 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2017 2016 2017 South 2017 2017 2016 South 2016 2016 UK Korea Taiwan Total uK Korea taiwan total m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 60 5 5 70 55 4 3 62 interest income 2 2 2 2 Group contributions 1 1 2 1 2 3 Benefits paid 2 1 1 4 2 1 1 4 Remeasurement gains arising from: Return on plan assets excluding interest income 3 3 5 5 Foreign exchange adjustments 1 1 2 Balance at 31 december 63 5 5 73 60 5 5 70 Actual return on plan assets 5 5 7 7 the fair values of plan assets in each category are as follows: 2017 2016 2017 South 2017 2017 2016 South 2016 2016 UK Korea Taiwan Total uK Korea taiwan total m m m m m m m m equities 22 22 9 9 Bonds 4 5 9 1 4 5 Cash and cash equivalents 37 5 42 50 1 5 56 63 5 5 73 60 5 5 70 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 129 the expense recognised in the income statement is as follows: 2017 2016 2017 South 2017 2017 2017 2016 South 2016 2016 2016 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total uK Korea taiwan other total m m m m m m m m m m Current service cost 1 1 1 1 interest cost 2 2 2 1 3 interest income 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 total cost is recognised within the following items in the income statement: 2017 2016 m m Cost of sales 1 Administrative expenses 1 1 1 2 the gains or losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2017 2016 2017 South 2017 2017 2017 2016 South 2016 2016 2016 UK Korea Taiwan Other Total uK Korea taiwan other total m m m m m m m m m m Actual return less expected return on plan assets 3 3 5 5 Remeasurement losses gains arising from Financial assumptions 1 1 14 1 15 demographic assumptions experience adjustment 2 2 defined benefit plan remeasurement gains losses 4 4 9 1 10 2017 2016 Actuarial losses recognised directly in equity are as follows: m m Cumulative as at 1 January 27 17 Remeasurement gains losses recognised during the year 4 10 Cumulative as at 31 december 23 27 the life expectancies underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the uK plan, based on retirement age of 65, are as follows: 2017 2016 Years years males 24 25 Females 26 27 the weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligations as at 31 december 2017 was 25 years 2016: 26. the Group expects 1m in contributions to be paid to the defined benefit plans in 2018.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 130 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Share-based payments the Group operates a number of share option schemes, a majority being designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group.
details of these schemes are given in the Remuneration Committee report.
in accordance with the Groups accounting policy 2.2N iv on share-based payment transactions, the fair value of share options and long-term incentive awards is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
the fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the share options and long-term incentive awards.
the charge to the income statement for the year was nil 2016: nil.
the Group has applied iFRS 2 to its active employee share-based payment arrangements from 1 January 2005 except for arrangements granted before 7 November 2002. i Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP performance Share Awards under this scheme are awarded to executive directors and senior management of the Group.
Awards Awards Awards Awards Awards Awards Credited to outstanding awarded vested forfeited expired outstanding Credited to share as at during the during the during the during the as at share capital premium vesting date of Awards 1 Jan 2017 year year year year 31 Dec 2017 m m date 04.04.2014 450,688 450,688 04.04.2017 03.08.2015 232,086 12,724 219,362 03.08.2018 10.09.2015 11,867 11,867 10.09.2018 29.03.2016 185,643 185,643 29.03.2019 880,284 463,412 416,872 ii Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 2006 and 2016 Sharesave Schemes Share options under this scheme are granted to uK based employees.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 131 the options outstanding at the year-end have an exercise price in the range of 3.30 to 4.69 2016: 3.30 to 4.69 and a weighted average contractual life of 2.07 years 2016: 2.40 years.
iii Annual Bonus Plan ABP under the ABp, deferred share awards are granted annually to selected employees of the Group.
Shares in millennium & Copthorne hotels plc are transferred to participants as follows if they continue to be employed by the Group: 2015 awards, at the end of three years: and 2016 and 2017 awards, 25% after years one and two and 50% after three years.
the fair values for the deferred share awards were determined using the market price of the shares at the date of grant.
the share price for deferred share awards granted in 2017 was 4.62 2016: weighted average share price of 4.39.
these awards will vest over a three year period 25% after years one and two, 50% after three years, subject to the rules of the eSp.
the fair values for the awards were determined using the market price of the shares at the date of grant.
the share price for awards granted in 2017 was 4.65 2016: 4.13.
Awards Awards Awards Awards Awards Awards Credited Credited outstanding awarded vested forfeited expired outstanding to share to share as at during during during during as at capital premium date of Awards 1 Jan 2017 the year the year the year the year 31 dec 2017 m m vesting dates 29.03.2016 37,572 8,158 4,950 24,464 29.03.2017 8 9 15.08.2017 56,838 56,838 15.08.2018 9 20 37,572 56,838 8,158 4,950 81,302 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 132 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Awards options granted the following awards options were granted in the current and comparative years: Awards options granted Share price prevailing on date of exercise Fair expected expected Risk-free date of Nongrant price value term expected dividend interest 2017 Awards grant directors directors years volatility yield rates executive Share plan 15.08.2017 14,210 4.65 4.57 1.00 1.7% executive Share plan 15.08.2017 14,210 4.65 4.50 2.00 1.7% executive Share plan 15.08.2017 28,418 4.65 4.42 3.00 1.7% Sharesave Scheme 3 year 11.04.2017 46,550 4.47 3.66 1.05 3.31 26.0% 1.7% 0.2% Sharesave Scheme 5 year 11.04.2017 11,226 4.47 3.66 1.09 5.31 24.0% 1.7% 0.4% deferred Share Awards 14.06.2017 55,750 4.62 4.62 3.00 1.7% Share price Awards options granted prevailing on date of exercise Fair expected expected Risk-free date of Nongrant price value term expected dividend interest 2016 Awards grant directors directors years volatility yield rates ltip epS 29.03.2016 111,386 4.13 3.94 3.00 1.6% ltip tSR FtSe 250 29.03.2016 18,564 4.13 1.14 2.63 22.6% 1.6% 0.5% 15.5% to ltip tSR hotels 29.03.2016 18,564 4.13 1.41 2.63 52.4% 1.6% 0.5% ltip NAv 29.03.2016 37,129 4.13 3.94 3.00 1.6% executive Share plan 29.03.2016 15,781 4.13 4.07 1.00 1.6% executive Share plan 29.03.2016 15,781 4.13 4.00 2.00 1.6% executive Share plan 29.03.2016 31,562 4.13 3.94 3.00 1.6% Sharesave Scheme 3 year 12.04.2016 125,036 4.26 3.30 1.08 3.55 22.1% 1.5% 0.6% Sharesave Scheme 5 year 12.04.2016 4,545 4.26 3.30 1.21 5.55 23.1% 1.5% 0.9% deferred Share Awards 13.05.2016 76,798 4.40 4.40 3.00 deferred Share Awards 12.08.2016 2,377 4.21 4.21 3.00 deferred Share Awards 09.11.2016 977 4.40 4.40 3.00 Measurement of fair value the ltip and Sharesave awards, which are subject to an epS performance condition, were valued using the Black-Scholes valuation method.
the ltip awards which are subject to a share price related performance condition i. e. tSR were valued using the monte Carlo valuation method.
the option pricing model involves six variables: exercise price Share price at grant expected term expected volatility of share price Risk-free interest rate expected dividend yield HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 133 24 Provisions Beijing legal indemnity total m m m Balance at 1 January 2017 1 10 11 Recognised during the year 1 1 Foreign exchange adjustments 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2017 2 9 11 Analysed as: Non-current provision 9 9 Current provision 2 2 Total provision 2 9 11 provision for legal fees as at 31 december 2017 of 2m 2016: 1m relates to disputes in several hotels.
the Beijing indemnity of 9m 2016: 10m relate to the tax indemnity to the former shareholders of Grand millennium hotel Beijing in which the Group acquired an additional 40% interest in 2010.
25 Other non-current liabilities 2017 2016 m m other liabilities 13 14 26 Deferred taxation movements in deferred tax liabilities and assets prior to offsetting balances during the year are as follows: Charged credited to income statement other At adjustment At 1 January Change in to opening Current year Acquisition of Charged to exchange on 31 December 2017 tax rate provision movement subsidiary reserves translation 2017 m m m m m m m m Deferred tax liabilities 1 property assets 283 18 2 15 5 14 239 283 18 2 15 5 14 239 Deferred tax assets tax losses 54 17 3 18 1 11 48 2 employee benefits 6 1 1 4 others 3 1 5 1 63 17 2 18 1 1 11 51 Net deferred tax liabilities 220 1 33 4 1 3 188 1 property assets comprise plant, property and equipment, lease premium prepayment and investment properties.
2 employee benefits comprise defined benefit pension schemes and share-based payment arrangements.
deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when deferred taxes relate to the same taxation authority.
deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 134 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued 2017 2016 m m deductible temporary differences 1 1 tax losses 2 Adjustments due to: deductible temporary differences in respect of prior year 1 tax losses in respect of prior year 15 14 18 15 the deductible temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
the tax losses are subject to agreement by the tax authorities and compliance with tax regulations in the respective countries in which certain subsidiaries operate.
the gross tax losses with expiry dates are as follows: 2017 2016 m m expiry dates: within 1 to 5 years 14 8 after 5 years 6 2 no expiry date 76 67 96 77 At 31 december 2017, a deferred tax liability of 13m 2016: 12m relating to undistributed reserves of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures of 1,000m 2016: 958m has not been recognised because the Group determined that the distributions will not be made and the liability will not be incurred in the foreseeable future.
27 Trade and other payables 2017 2016 m m trade payables 27 35 other creditors including taxation and social security: Social security and other taxes 12 12 value added tax and similar sales taxes 13 13 other creditors 31 29 Accruals 100 101 deferred income 20 19 Rental and other deposits 5 5 208 214 the Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risks related to trade and other payables are disclosed in Note 22.
28 Dividends 2017 2016 2017 2016 pence pence m m Final ordinary dividend paid 5.66 4.34 18 14 interim ordinary dividend paid 2.08 2.08 7 7 total dividends paid 7.74 6.42 25 21 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 135 Subsequent to 31 december 2017, the directors declared the following final dividends, which have not been provided for: 2017 2016 2017 2016 pence pence m m Final ordinary dividend 4.42 5.66 14 18 All dividends paid during 2017 and 2016 were in cash.
29 Share capital Number of 30p shares allotted, called up and fully paid Balance at 1 January 2017 324,735,565 issue of ordinary shares on exercise of share options 25,190 Balance at 31 December 2017 324,760,755 All of the share capital is equity share capital.
holders of these shares are entitled to dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at general meetings of the Company.
All rights attached to the Companys shares held by the Group are suspended until those shares are reissued.
At the year end, options over 208,732 ordinary shares remain outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme and are exercisable between now and 31 January 2023 at exercise prices between 3.30 and 4.69.
Awards made under the ltip of 416,872 ordinary shares and eSp of 81,302 ordinary shares remain unvested and may potentially vest between 3 August 2018 and 29 march 2019 for awards under the ltip and between now and 15 August 2020 for awards under the eSp.
lastly, 135,795 options under the ABp may potentially vest between 8September 2018 and 14 June 2020. during the year millennium & Copthorne hotels plc issued invitations to uK employees under the Sharesave Scheme to enter into a threeyear savings contract or a five-year savings contract with an option to purchase shares at an option price of 3.66 on expiry of the savings contract.
30 Reserves Cash flow hedge reserve the hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow instruments related to the hedged transactions that have not yet occurred net of tax.
Translation reserve the translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations net of tax.
Treasury share reserve An employee benefit trust established by the Group held 3,437 shares at 31 december 2017 2016: 4,345 to satisfy the vesting of awards under the ltip.
during the year 23,221 shares 2016: nil shares were purchased by the trust at 4.68 per share.
At 31 december 2017, the cost of shares held by the trust was 16,575 2016: 25,017, whilst the market value of these shares at 31 december 2017 was 20,106 2016: 20,004.
Shares purchased by the trust are treated as treasury shares which are deducted from equity and excluded from the calculations of earnings per share.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 136 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued 31 Financial commitments 2017 2016 m m a Capital commitments at the end of the financial year which are contracted but not provided for 70 37 the Groups share of the capital commitments of joint ventures and associates is shown in Note 15. b total commitments under non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable by the Group as follows: 2017 2016 m m less than one year 12 12 between one and five years 38 37 more than five years 167 171 217 220 c the Group leases out certain of its properties under operating leases.
the future minimum lease rentals receivable by the Group under non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2017 2016 m m less than one year 35 35 between one and five years 105 108 more than five years 93 59 233 202 Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable leases includes all future rentals receivable up to the period when those leases expire or become cancellable.
during the year ended 31 december 2017, 50m 2016: 47m was recognised as rental income in the income statement and 2m 2016:2m in respect of repairs and maintenance was recognised as an expense in the income statement relating to investment properties.
32 Contingencies and subsequent events in the course of its operations the Group is routinely exposed to potential liabilities for claims made by employees and contractual or tortious claims made by third parties.
No material losses are anticipated from such exposures.
there were no contingent liabilities or guarantees other than those arising in the ordinary course of business and on these no material losses are anticipated.
the Group has insurance cover up to certain limits for major risks on property and major claims in connection with legal liabilities arising in the course of its operations.
otherwise the Group generally carries its own risk.
the Group believes that the accruals and provisions carried on the balance sheet are sufficient to cover these risks.
other than the above transactions, there are no events subsequent to the balance sheet date which require adjustments to or disclosure within these consolidated financial statements except for those stated below: 1. on 11 January 2018, Cdlht completed the divestment of two hotels in Australia, the mercure Brisbane and ibis Brisbane for A$77m 45m to an independent third party.
2. on 11 January 2018, a partnership comprised of a subsidiary of FSGl together with subsidiaries of Cdl and another substantial shareholder of FSGl acquired a 300-room hotel currently operated by a tenant as the le meridien Frankfurt situated in Frankfurt for 79m 70m, excluding certain transaction related expenses.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 137 3. on 1 February 2018, FSGl together with four other co-investors acquired all the issued shares of hotelmaatschappij Rotterdam B. v which owns the 254-room hilton Rotterdam hotel in the Netherlands for 51m 45m.
Following the completion of the transaction, FSGl owns 24.7% interest in the target company.
4. on 1 February 2018, the Group acquired the 42-room the waterfront hotel in New plymouth, New Zealand, for a purchase consideration of NZ$11m 6m.
5. on 7 February 2018, the Group has provided an irrevocable undertaking to take up its full entitlement of FSGls proposed rights issue of new perpetual convertible capital securities for a total cost of S$58m 32m and a proportion of the excess rights not subscribed by other shareholders for a cost of up to S$31m 17m.
33 Related parties Identity of related parties transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
All transactions with related parties were entered into in the normal course of business and at arms length.
the Group has a related party relationship with its joint ventures, associates and with its directors and executive officers.
Transactions with ultimate holding company and other related companies the Group has a related party relationship with certain subsidiaries of hong leong investment holdings pte.
ltd hong leong which is the ultimate holding and controlling company of millennium & Copthorne hotels plc and holds 65.2% 2016: 64.9% of the Companys shares via Cdl, the intermediate holding company of the Group.
during the year ended 31 december 2017, the Group had the following transactions with those subsidiaries.
the Group deposited certain surplus cash with hong leong Finance limited, a subsidiary of hong leong, on normal commercial terms.
As at 31december 2017, 4m 2016: 4m of cash was deposited with hong leong Finance limited.
Fees paid payable by the Group to Cdl and its other subsidiaries were 3m 2016: 2m which included rentals paid for the Grand Shanghai restaurant and Kings Centre: property management fees for tanglin Shopping Centre: charges for car parking, leasing commission and professional services.
Transactions with key management personnel the beneficial interest of the directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company was 0.16% 2016: 0.16%.
in addition to their salaries, the Group also provides non-cash benefits to directors and executive officers and contributes to a postemployment defined contribution plan depending on the date of commencement of employment.
the defined contribution plan does not have a specified pension payable on retirement and benefits are determined by the extent to which the individuals fund can buy an annuity in the market at retirement.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 138 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued executive officers also participate in the Groups share option programme, long-term incentive plan and the Groups Sharesave schemes.
the key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Short-term employee benefits 6 6 Share-based payment 6 6 directors 1 1 executives 5 5 6 6 34 Related undertakings the full list of the Companys related undertakings as at 31 december 2017 are set out below: Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage type incorporation Registered office address principal Activities Aircoa equity interests inc. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding Company Boulder, Co 80302 Aircoa Gp Corporation 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 Aircoa, llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding Company Boulder, Co 80302 All Seasons hotels & Resorts limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, dormant Auckland 1010, New Zealand Anchorage-lakefront limited partnership 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 Archyield limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator AtoS holdings Gmbh 100% direct subsidiary Austria Schulhof 6 1st fl, 1010 vienna, investment holding Austria Aurora inn operating partnership l. p. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 Avon wynfield inn, ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 Avon wynfield llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 Beijing Fortune hotel Co. ltd. 70% indirect subsidiary peoples Building No.
5, 7 dongSanhuan hotel owner Republic middle Road, and operator of China Chaoyang district, Bejing, p. R. China 100020 Biltmore place operations Corp. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, liquor licence holder Boulder, Co 80302 Birkenhead holdings pty.
ltd. 76% indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, holding company 82-94 darlinghurst Road, potts point, Sydney 2011, Australia Birkenhead investments pty.
ltd. 76% indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, property investment & 82-94 darlinghurst management Road, potts point, Sydney 2011, Australia HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 139 Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage type incorporation Registered office address principal Activities Bostonian hotel limited partnership 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 Buffalo operating partnership l. p. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 Buffalo Rhm operating llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 Cdl New york llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 Cdl Nyl limited 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, investment holding Boulder, Co 80302 Cdl entertainment & leisure pte ltd 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road provision of Singapore #04-01 City house management Singapore 068877 services and investment holding 1 1 1 Cdl hospitality trusts 37% Associated Republic of See note below See note below undertakings Singapore Cdl hotels Chelsea limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Cdl hotels Korea ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic Jung-gu Sowolro 50, Seoul, hotel owner of Korea South Korea 04637 and operator Cdl hotels labuan limited 100% indirect subsidiary malaysia tiara labuan, Jalan hotel owner tanjung Batu, and operator 87000 F. t. labuan, malaysia Cdl hotels malaysia Sdn.
100% indirect subsidiary malaysia level 8, Symphony house, hotel owner pusat dagangan dana1, and operator Jalan pJu 1A 46, 47301 petaling Jaya, Selangor darul ehsan Cdl hotels u. K. limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Cdl hotels holdings Japan limited 100% indirect subsidiary hong Kong 2803 Great eagle Centre, investment holding 23 harbour Road, wanchai, hong Kong Cdl hotels holdings New Zealand limited 100% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, investment holding Auckland 1010, New Zealand Cdl hotels Japan pte.
ltd. 40% Associated Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding undertakings Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 Cdl hotels uSA, inc. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel investment Boulder, Co 80302 holding company Cdl investments New Zealand limited 50% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, investment and Auckland 1010, New Zealand property management company Cdl land New Zealand limited 50% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, property Auckland 1010, New Zealand investment and development Cdl west 45th Street llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 Chicago hotel holdings, inc. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 140 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage type incorporation Registered office address principal Activities Cincinnati S. i. Co. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 City Century pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road Restaurateur Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 City elite pte ltd 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road Restaurateur Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 City hotels pte ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road hotel operator Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 Context Securities limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, investment holding Auckland 1010, New Zealand Copthorne Nominees limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF Copthorne Aberdeen limited 83% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel management horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF Copthorne hotel Birmingham limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Copthorne hotel Cardiff limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Copthorne hotel effingham park limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Copthorne hotel Gatwick limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Copthorne hotel manchester limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Copthorne hotel merry hill Construction limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Copthorne hotel merry hill limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Copthorne hotel Newcastle limited 96% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Copthorne hotel plymouth limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Copthorne hotel Slough limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator Copthorne hotel holdings limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF Copthorne hotels limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel investment horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF holding Copthorne orchid hotel Singapore pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road property owner and Singapore #04-01 City house developer Singapore 068877 Copthorne orchid penang Sdn.
100% indirect subsidiary malaysia level 8, Symphony house, hotel owner pusat dagangan dana 1, Jalan pJu 1A 46, 47301 petaling Jaya, Selangor darul ehsan diplomat hotel holding limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF durham operating partnership l. p. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 141 Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage type incorporation Registered office address principal Activities elite hotel management Services pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road hotel management Singapore #04-01 City consultancy services house Singapore 068877 Ferguson hotel management limited 50% Associated hong Kong unit 606, 6th Floor, investment holding undertakings Alliance Building, 133 Connaught Road Central, hong Kong First 2000 limited 100% indirect subsidiary hong Kong 2803 Great eagle Centre, investment holding 23harbour Road, wanchai, hong Kong First Sponsor Group limited 36% Associated Cayman islands 190 elgin Avenue, investment holding undertakings George town, Ky1-9005 Grand Cayman, Cayman islands Five Star Assurance, inc. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1401 eye St. Nw, Suite 600, Captive insurance washington d. C. 20005 company Four peaks management Company 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, Arizona condominium Boulder, Co 80302 management Gateway holdings Corporation i 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 Gateway hotel holdings, inc. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 Gateway Regal holdings llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 and operator Grand plaza hotel Corporation 66% indirect subsidiary philippines 10 Floor, heritage hotel manila, hotel owner edSA corner Roxas Boulevard, and operator pasay City, philippines 1300 and investment holding company harbour land Corporation 41% Associated philippines 10 Floor, heritage hotel manila, land owner undertakings edSA corner Roxas Boulevard, pasay City, philippines 1300 harbour view hotel pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road hotel operator Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 harrow entertainment pte ltd 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 hong leong Ginza tmK 70% indirect subsidiary Japan 4-1 Nihonbashi 1-chome, property owner Chuo-ku, tokyo, Japan hong leong hotel development limited 84% indirect subsidiary taiwan 2 Song Shou Road, hotel owner Xinyi district, and operator taipei 11051, taiwan hong leong hotels pte ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Cayman islands po Box 309 ugland house, investment holding Grand Cayman, Ky1-1104 company Cayman islands hong leong international hotel 97% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding Singapore pte.
ltd. Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 hospitality Group limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, holding company Auckland 1010, New Zealand 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 142 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage type incorporation Registered office address principal Activities hospitality holdings pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding Singapore #04-01 City house company Singapore 068877 hospitality leases limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, lessee company Auckland 1010, New Zealand hospitality Services limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, hotel operation Auckland 1010, New Zealand management hospitality ventures pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 hotel liverpool limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, property letting horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF hotel liverpool management limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, operating company horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF hotelcorp New Zealand pty.
ltd. 76% indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, holding company 82-94 darlinghurst Road, potts point, Sydney 2011, Australia international design link pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road property project Singapore #04-01 City house design Singapore 068877 consultancy services currently dormant KiN holdings limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, holding company Auckland 1010, New Zealand Kings tanglin Shopping pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road property owner Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 Kingsgate holdings pty.
ltd. 76% indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, holding company 82-94 darlinghurst Road, potts point, Sydney 2011, Australia Kingsgate hotel pty.
ltd. 76% indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, dormant 82-94 darlinghurst Road, potts point, Sydney 2011, Australia Kingsgate hotels and Resorts limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, Franchise holder Auckland 1010, New Zealand Kingsgate Kingsgate hotels limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, dormant Auckland 1010, New Zealand Kingsgate international Corporation limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, investment holding Auckland 1010, New Zealand Kingsgate investments pty.
ltd. 76% indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, investment company 82-94 darlinghurst Road, potts point, Sydney 2011, Australia lakeside operating partnership l. p. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 london Britannia hotel limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator london tara hotel limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel owner horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF and operator m&C Asia Finance uK limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, Finance company horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 143 Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage type incorporation Registered office address principal Activities m&C Asia holdings uK limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF m & C CB limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment company horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF m & C Cd limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF m & C management Services uSA inc. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, management services Boulder, Co 80302 company m & C NZ limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, holding company horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF m & C Reservations Services limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, provider of reservation horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF services to hotel owners and operators m&C Business trust management limited 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road provision of Singapore #04-01 City house property fund Singapore 068877 management services m&C Colorado hotel Corporation 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 m&C Crescent Corporation 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, investment holding Boulder, Co 80302 m&C Crescent interests, llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, property owner Boulder, Co 80302 m&C Finance 1 limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, Finance company horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF m&C holdings thailand ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary thailand 75 white Group tower investment ii, 11th Floor, Soi Rubia, holding and Sukhumvit 42 Road, Kwaeng hotel management phrakanong Khet Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 thailand m&C holdings delaware partnership 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, property investment Boulder, Co 80302 m&C holdings, llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 m&C hotel enterprises Asia limited 100% indirect subsidiary hong Kong 2803 Great eagle Centre, investment holding 23 harbour Road, wanchai, hong Kong m&C hotel interests, inc. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel management Boulder, Co 80302 services company m&C hotel investments pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 m&C hotels France management SARl 100% indirect subsidiary France 12 Boulevard haussmann, management 75009 paris, France company m&C hotels France SAS 100% indirect subsidiary France 12 Boulevard haussmann, hotel owner 75009 paris, France m&C hotels holdings Japan pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 m&C hotels holdings limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 144 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage type incorporation Registered office address principal Activities m&C hotels holdings uSA limited 100% direct subsidiary Cayman islands po Box 309 ugland house, investment holding GrandCayman, Ky1-1104 Cayman islands m&C hotels Japan pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 m&C hotels partnership France SNC 100% indirect subsidiary France 12 Boulevard haussmann, investment holding 75009 paris, France m&C hospitality holdings Asia limited 100% indirect subsidiary hong Kong 2803 Great eagle Centre, investment holding 23 harbour Road, wanchai, hong Kong m&C hospitality international limited 100% indirect subsidiary hong Kong 2803 Great eagle Centre, investment holding 23 harbour Road, wanchai, hong Kong m&C management holdings limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF m&C Reit management limited 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road Reit investment Singapore #04-01 City house management services Singapore 068877 m&C New york times Square, llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, investment holding Boulder, Co 80302 m&C New york Finance uK limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, Finance company horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF m&C New york times Square eAt ii llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 m&C Singapore Finance uK limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, Finance company horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF m&C Singapore holdings uK limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF mcCormick Ranch operating partnership l. p. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 mhm, inc. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel management Boulder, Co 80302 millennium Bostonian, inc. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 millennium & Copthorne Austrian holdings limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF millennium & Copthorne Jersey holdings limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, holding company horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF millennium & Copthorne hotel holdings 100% indirect subsidiary hong Kong 2803 Great eagle Centre, investment and hong Kong limited 23 harbour Road, wanchai, development of hong Kong hotels and hotel management millennium & Copthorne hotels hong Kong limited 100% indirect subsidiary hong Kong 2803 Great eagle Centre, provision of hotel 23 harbour Road, wanchai, management and hong Kong consultancy services millennium & Copthorne hotels limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, Name-holding Auckland 1010, New Zealand millennium & Copthorne hotels 100% indirect subsidiary peoples #1205, No.
511 wei hoi Road, hotel management management Shanghai limited Republic Shanghai 200041, p. R. China of China HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 145 Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage type incorporation Registered office address principal Activities millennium & Copthorne hotels 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, hotel investment New Zealand limited Auckland 1010, New Zealand holding company millennium & Copthorne hotels pty.
ltd. 76% indirect subsidiary Australia Suite 7B, Zenith Residences, Name holding 82-94 darlinghurst Road, potts point, Sydney 2011, Australia millennium & Copthorne international limited 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road hotels and resorts Singapore #04-01 City house management Singapore 068877 millennium & Copthorne pension trustee limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, pension trust acting horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF on behalf of company trustees millennium & Copthorne Share trustees limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, Share trustee horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF company millennium CdG paris SAS 100% indirect subsidiary France 2 Alle du verger, 95700 hotel operator Roissy, France millennium hotel holdings emeA limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF millennium hotels & Resorts Services limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, management contract horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF holding company millennium hotels europe holdings limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF millennium hotels italy holdings S. r. l. 100% indirect subsidiary italy via vittoria veneto, n. 70, holding company Roma 00187, italy millennium hotels limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF millennium hotels palace management S. r. l. 100% indirect subsidiary italy via vittoria veneto, n. 70, hotel operator Roma 00187, italy millennium hotels property S. r. l. 100% indirect subsidiary italy via vittoria veneto, n. 70, property owner Roma 00187, italy millennium hotels west london limited 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, property letting horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF millennium hotels west london 100% indirect subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, hotel operator management limited horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF millennium hotels london limited 100% direct subsidiary united Kingdom victoria house, victoria Road, investment holding horley, Surrey Rh6 7AF millennium opera paris SAS 100% indirect subsidiary France 12 Boulevard haussmann, hotel operator 75009 paris, France 2 New unity holdings ltd. 50% Associated Bvi po Box 146 Road town, investment holding undertakings tortola, British virgin islands New york Sign llC 50% Associated uSA 1345 28th Street, to lease, undertakings Boulder, Co 80302 manage, and otherwise deal with certain advertising signage space at the Novotel hotel Newbury investments pte ltd 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 park plaza hotel Corporation 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 146 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage type incorporation Registered office address principal Activities prestons Road limited 13% indirect Associate New Zealand 167 main North Road, Service provider Christchurch 8140, New Zealand pt millennium hotels & Resorts 100% indirect subsidiary indonesia Jalan Fachrudin 3, management services Jakarta 10250, indonesia pt.
millennium Sirih Jakarta hotel 100% indirect subsidiary indonesia Jalan Fachrudin 3, hotel owner Jakarta 10250, indonesia qiNZ Anzac Avenue limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, hotel owner Auckland 1010, New Zealand qiNZ holdings New Zealand limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, holding company Auckland 1010, New Zealand quantum limited 76% indirect subsidiary New Zealand level 13, 280 queen Street, holding company Auckland 1010, New Zealand Regal Grand holdings Corporation i 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 Regal harvest house lp 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 Regal hotel management inc. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 Republic hotels & Resorts limited 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road hotel operator and Singapore #04-01 City house investment holding Singapore 068877 company Republic hotels Suzhou pte ltd 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road dormant Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 Republic iconic hotel pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road hotel operator Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 Rhh operating llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 Rhi Boston holdings Corporation i 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 Rhi Boston holdings Corporation ii 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 Rhm Aurora llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 Rhm holdings Corporation i 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 Rhm management llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 Rhm Ranch llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 Rhm wynfield llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 Rhm-88, llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 and operator Richfield holdings Corporation i 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 Richfield holdings Corporation ii 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 147 Shareholding Country of Full Name percentage type incorporation Registered office address principal Activities Richfield holdings, inc 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 Rogo investments pte.
ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 Rogo Realty Corporation 24% Associated philippines 10 Floor, heritage hotel manila, Real estate owner undertakings edSA corner Roxas Boulevard, pasay City, philippines 1300 S. S. Restaurant Corporation 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, liquor license holder Boulder, Co 80302 St. louis operating, inc. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, dormant Boulder, Co 80302 Sunnyvale partners, ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 tara hotels deutschland Gmbh 100% indirect subsidiary Germany Registered at the hotel investment trade register at holding the local court of company hannover with the legal form of privatelimited company number hRB 209133. the philippine Fund limited 60% indirect subsidiary Bermuda C o Coson Corporate Services investment holding limited, Cumberland house 9thFloor, 1 victoriaStreet hamilton hm 11, Bermuda toSCAp limited 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 trimark hotel Corporation 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 and operator whB Biltmore llC 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel owner Boulder, Co 80302 and operator whB Corporation 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 wynfield Gp Corporation 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, hotel ownership Boulder, Co 80302 wynfield one, ltd. 100% indirect subsidiary uSA 1345 28th Street, holding company Boulder, Co 80302 Zatrio pte ltd 100% indirect subsidiary Republic of 36 Robinson Road investment holding Singapore #04-01 City house Singapore 068877 Zillion holdings limited 100% indirect subsidiary Barbados the phoenix Centre, investment holding George Street, Belleville, St. michael, Barbados 1 C dl hospitality trusts is a stapled group comprising Cdl hospitality Real estate investment trust h-Reit, a real estate investment trust, and Cdl hospitality Business trust hBt, a business trust.
h-Reit has an investment strategy of investing, directly or indirectly, in a diversified portfolio of income-producing real estate which is primarily used for hospitality and or hospitality-related purposes, whether wholly or partially, and real-estate related assets in relation to the foregoing.
hBt is a business trust which was activated in december 2013. in addition to its function as a master lessee, hBt may also undertake certain hospitality and hospitality-related development projects, acquisitions and investments which may not be suitable for h-Reit.
the registered office address of m&C Reit management limited, manager of h-Reit and m&C Business trust management limited, trustee-manager of hBt is 36 Robinson Road #04-01 City house Singapore 068877.
As disclosed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group has concluded that under iFRS10, it has fide facto control over Cdl hospitality trusts.
2 the Group has assessed the classification of its investments in First Sponsor Group limited and New unity holdings limited in accordance with iFRS10 and concluded that it does not have control.
2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 HEAD 0 1ST LINE 2ND LINE Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 148 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 NoteS to the CoNSolidAted FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS CoNtiNued Exemption from statutory audit listed below are subsidiaries controlled and consolidated by the Group, where the directors have elected to take the exemption from having an audit of their financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2017. this exemption is taken in accordance with Companies Act s479A.
Archyield limited 1747079 m&C CB limited 3846711 Cdl hotels Chelsea limited 2845022 m&C Cd limited 3846704 Cdl hotels u. K. limited 2729520 m&C Finance 1 limited 6783896 Copthorne hotel Birmingham limited 1816493 m&C hotels holdings limited 4407581 Copthorne hotel Cardiff limited 2411296 m&C management holdings limited 5832248 Copthorne hotel effingham park limited 1423861 m&C New york Finance uK limited 9060415 Copthorne hotel Gatwick limited 994968 m&C NZ limited 5159722 Copthorne hotel manchester limited 1855800 m&C Singapore Finance uK limited 8391052 Copthorne hotel merry hill Construction limited 2649367 m&C Singapore holdings uK limited 8382985 Copthorne hotel merry hill limited 2590620 millennium & Copthorne Austrian holdings limited 3757378 Copthorne hotel plymouth limited 3253120 millennium & Copthorne Jersey holdings limited 5846574 Copthorne hotel Slough limited 2300992 millennium & Copthorne pension trustee limited 6662791 Copthorne Nominees limited 2574042 millennium & Copthorne Share trustees limited 3320990 diplomat hotel holding limited 1927463 millennium hotel holdings emeA limited 4592877 hotel liverpool limited 9636541 millennium hotels limited 3141048 hotel liverpool management limited 9638688 millennium hotels europe holdings limited 8844747 london Britannia hotel limited 744379 millennium hotels london limited 3691885 london tara hotel limited 1005559 millennium hotels west london limited 8599282 m&C Asia Finance uK limited 8391037 millennium hotels west london management limited 8891908 m&C Asia holdings uK limited 8382946 millennium hotels & Resorts Services limited 4601112 each companys registered number is shown in brackets after its name.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 149 35.
Non-controlling interests NCI the following subsidiaries have material NCi.
Ownership interests held by NCI principal place of business Country of Name incorporation principal activity 2017 2016 millennium & Copthorne hotels New Zealand limited mChNZ New Zealand hotel investment holding company 24% 25% Cdl hospitality trusts Cdlht Singapore Real estate investment trust 63% 63% the following is summarised financial information for mChNZ and Cdlht, prepared in accordance with local accounting standards.
the information is before inter-company eliminations with other companies in the Group.
mChNZ Subgroup Cdlht Subgroup 2017 2016 2017 2016 Name m m m m Revenue 103 88 115 96 profit after tax 30 26 72 26 profit attributable to NCi 7 5 46 16 other comprehensive income 37 33 4 10 Total comprehensive income 67 59 76 36 total comprehensive income attributable to NCi 8 5 48 23 Current assets 93 80 106 61 Non-current assets 344 286 1,487 1,362 Current liabilities 15 19 185 20 Non-current liabilities 72 64 381 535 Net assets 350 283 1,027 868 Net assets attributable to NCi 39 32 647 546 Cash inflow from operating activities 29 36 78 71 Cash outflow from investing activities 10 29 151 10 Cash outflow inflow from financing activities 10 6 81 56 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 9 1 8 5 1 dividends paid to NCi during the year 2 1 38 33 1 included in cash flows from financing activities.
Assets held for sale on 22 december 2017, the h-Reit Group had entered into a sale and purchase agreement to sell mercure Brisbane and ibis Brisbane.
Accordingly, these investment properties with a total carrying value of A$71m 41m have been classified as assets held for sale in the statement of financial position as at 31december 2017. the sale of the properties was completed in January 2018 Note 32.
