196 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Shareholder information Pearson ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange A postal dealing service is also available through Equiniti.
and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Please telephone 0371 384 2248 for details or log on to Depositary Receipts.
L ines open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays.
Corporate website ShareGift The investors section of our corporate website www.
html provides a wealth of information for shareholders.
Shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose value makes It is also possible to sign up to receive e-mail alerts for reports and them uneconomic to sell, may wish to donate them to ShareGift, the press releases relating to Pearson at https: www.
com share donation charity registered charity number 1052686.
html information about ShareGift and the charities it has supported may be obtained from their website, www.
org, or by Shareholder information online contacting them at ShareGift, PO Box 72253, London, SW1P 9LQ.
Shareholder information can be found on our website American Depositary Receipts ADRs https: www.
html Pearsons ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and Our registrar, Equiniti, also provides a range of shareholder traded under the symbol PSO.
Each ADR represents one ordinary information online.
You can check your holding and find share.
For enquiries regarding registered ADR holder accounts practical help on transferring shares or updating your details and dividends, please contact Bank of New York Mellon, at www.
For more information, please contact Shareholder Correspondence ADR, PO Box 505000, Louisville, our registrar, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, KY 40233-5000, telephone 1 866 259 2289 toll free within West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Alternatively, you for those shareholders with hearing difficulties, textphone may e-mail shrrelations@.
Voting rights for registered ADR holders can be exercised through Information about the Pearson share price Bank of New York Mellon, and for beneficial ADR holders and or The companys share price can be found on our website at nominee accounts through your US brokerage institution.
It also appears in the financial columns will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 20-F. of the national press.
Share register fraud: protecting your investment 2017 dividends Pearson does not contact its shareholders directly to provide Payment date Amount per share recommendation advice and neither does it appoint third parties Interim 15 September 2017 5 pence to do so.
As required by law, our shareholder register is available for public inspection but we cannot control the use of information Final 11 May 2018 12 pence obtained by persons inspecting the register.
Please treat any Payment of dividends to mandated accounts approaches purporting to originate from Pearson with caution.
Should you elect to have your dividends paid through BACS, this can For more information, please log on to our website at be done directly into a bank or building society account, with the tax https: www.
com investors managing-your-shares voucher sent to the shareholders registered address.
html be contacted for information on 0371 384 2043.
Tips on protecting your shares Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP K eep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference The DRIP gives shareholders the right to buy the companys shares number in a safe place and shred any unwanted documentation on the London stock market with their cash dividend.
For further Inform our registrar, Equiniti, promptly when you change address information, please contact Equiniti on 0371 384 2268.
B e aware of dividend payment dates and contact the registrar if you do not receive your dividend cheque or, better still, Individual Savings Accounts ISAs make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account Equiniti offers ISAs in Pearson shares.
For more information, C onsider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account please go to www.
co. uk dealing or call customer via a nominee.
2018 financial calendar Share dealing facilities Ex-dividend date 5 April Equiniti offers telephone and internet services for dealing in Pearson Record date 6 April shares.
For further information, please contact their telephone Last date for dividend reinvestment election 19 April dealing helpline on 03456 037 037 or, for online dealing, log on to www.
You will need your shareholder Annual General Meeting 4 May reference number as shown on your share certificate.
Payment date for dividend and share purchase date for dividend reinvestment 11 May Reliance on this document Designed and produced by Friend.
com The intention of this document is to provide information to shareholders and is not Print: Pureprint Group designed to be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
Front cover illustrator Forward-looking statements Tang Yau Hoong This document includes forward-looking statements concerning Pearsons financial Photographs condition, business and operations and its strategy, plans and objectives.
In particular, p23 and p41: Jo Moon Price all statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections, including trends in p19: Chet Strange results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of interest p33: Achala Saman or exchange rates, the availability of financing, anticipated cost savings and synergies and the execution of Pearsons strategy, are forward-looking statements.
Pearson has supported the planting of 71.5 square metres of new native woodland with the Woodland Trust, helping to remove 2.052 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide generated By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and by the production of this report and associated documents.
uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may occur in the future.
They are based on numerous expectations, assumptions and beliefs This report has been printed on Edixion Challenger Offset which is FSC certified and regarding Pearsons present and future business strategies and the environment in which made from 100% Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulp.
The mill and the printer are both it will operate in the future.
There are various factors which could cause Pearsons actual certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the financial condition, results and development to differ materially from the plans, goals, eco management Audit Scheme.
The report was printed using vegetable-based inks by objectives and expectations expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, a CarbonNeutral printer.
many of which are outside Pearsons control.
These include international, national and local conditions, as well as the impact of competition.
They also include other risks detailed from time to time in Pearsons publicly-filed documents and, in particular, the risk factors set out in this document, which you are advised to read.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and, except as required by law, Pearson gives no undertaking to update any forward-looking statements in this document whether as a result of new information, future developments, changes in its expectations or otherwise.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Pearson Annual report and accounts 2017 Principal offices www.
