118 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Consolidated income statement Year ended 31 December 2017 All figures in millions Notes 2017 2016 Continuing operations Sales 2 4,513 4,552 Cost of goods sold 4 2,066 2,093 Gross profit 2,447 2,459 Operating expenses 4 2,202 2,480 Other net gains and losses 4 128 25 Impairment of intangible assets 11 2,548 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 78 97 Operating profit loss 2 451 2,497 Finance costs 6 110 97 Finance income 6 80 37 Profit loss before tax 421 2,557 Income tax 7 13 222 Profit loss for the year 408 2,335 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 406 2,337 Non-controlling interest 2 2 Earnings per share loss attributable to equity holders of the company during the year expressed in pence per share basic 8 49.9p 286.8 p diluted 8 49.9p 286.8 p Section 5 Financial statements 119 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2017 All figures in millions Notes 2017 2016 Profit loss for the year 408 2,335 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Group 158 910 Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations associates 104 3 Currency translation adjustment disposed 51 Attributable tax 7 9 5 Fair value gain on other financial assets 13 Attributable tax 7 4 Items that are not reclassified to the income statement Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations Group 25 175 268 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations associates 7 8 Attributable tax 7 42 58 Other comprehensive expense income for the year 29 155 690 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 253 1,645 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 251 1,648 Non-controlling interest 2 3 120 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2017 All figures in millions Notes 2017 2016 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 10 281 343 Intangible assets 11 2,964 3,442 Investments in joint ventures and associates 12 398 1,247 Deferred income tax assets 13 95 451 Financial assets derivative financial instruments 16 140 171 Retirement benefit assets 25 545 158 Other financial assets 15 77 65 Trade and other receivables 22 103 104 4,603 5,981 Current assets Intangible assets pre-publication 20 741 1,024 Inventories 21 148 235 Trade and other receivables 22 1,110 1,357 Financial assets marketable securities 14 8 10 Cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts 17 518 1,459 2,525 4,085 Assets classified as held for sale 32 760 Total assets 7,888 10,066 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities borrowings 18 1,066 2,424 Financial liabilities derivative financial instruments 16 140 264 Deferred income tax liabilities 13 164 466 Retirement benefit obligations 25 104 139 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 23 55 79 Other liabilities 24 133 422 1,662 3,794 Section 5 Financial statements 121 Consolidated balance sheet continued As at 31 December 2017 All figures in millions Notes 2017 2016 Current liabilities Trade and other liabilities 24 1,342 1,629 Financial liabilities borrowings 18 19 44 Current income tax liabilities 231 224 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 23 25 27 1,617 1,924 Liabilities classified as held for sale 32 588 Total liabilities 3,867 5,718 Net assets 4,021 4,348 Equity Share capital 27 200 205 Share premium 27 2,602 2,597 Treasury shares 28 61 79 Capital redemption reserve 5 Fair value reserve 13 Translation reserve 592 905 Retained earnings 662 716 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 4,013 4,344 Non-controlling interest 8 4 Total equity 4,021 4,348 These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 14 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer 122 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Year ended 31 December 2017 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company Capital NonShare Share Treasury redemption Fair value Translation Retained controlling Total All figures in millions capital premium shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity At 1 January 2017 205 2,597 79 905 716 4,344 4 4,348 Profit for the year 406 406 2 408 Other comprehensive income expense 13 313 145 155 155 Total comprehensive income expense 13 313 551 251 2 253 Equity-settled transactions 33 33 33 Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes 5 5 5 Buyback of equity 5 5 300 300 300 Purchase of treasury shares Release of treasury shares 18 18 Changes in non-controlling interest 2 2 2 Dividends 318 318 318 At 31 December 2017 200 2,602 61 5 13 592 662 4,013 8 4,021 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company Capital NonShare Share Treasury redemption Fair value Translation Retained controlling Total All figures in millions capital premium shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity At 1 January 2016 205 2,590 72 7 3,698 6,414 4 6,418 Loss for the year 2,337 2,337 2 2,335 Other comprehensive income expense 912 223 689 1 690 Total comprehensive income expense 912 2,560 1,648 3 1,645 Equity-settled transactions 22 22 22 Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes 7 7 7 Buyback of equity Purchase of treasury shares 27 27 27 Release of treasury shares 20 20 Changes in non-controlling interest 3 3 Dividends 424 424 424 At 31 December 2016 205 2,597 79 905 716 4,344 4 4,348 The capital redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of shares cancelled in the Groups share buyback programme.
The fair value reserve arises on revaluation of other financial assets.
The translation reserve includes exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments.
Section 5 Financial statements 123 Consolidated cash flow statement Year ended 31 December 2017 All figures in millions Notes 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash generated from operations 33 462 522 Interest paid 89 67 Tax paid 75 45 Net cash generated from operating activities 298 410 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 30 11 15 Purchase of investments 3 6 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 82 88 Purchase of intangible assets 150 157 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 31 19 54 Proceeds from sale of associates 31 411 4 Proceeds from sale of investments 92 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 33 4 Proceeds from sale of liquid resources 20 42 Loans advanced repaid by related parties 13 14 Investment in liquid resources 18 24 Interest received 20 16 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 458 131 Net cash generated from used in investing activities 651 41 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 27 5 7 Buyback of equity 27 149 Purchase of treasury shares 28 27 Proceeds from borrowings 2 4 Repayment of borrowings 1,294 249 Finance lease principal payments 5 6 Transactions with non-controlling interest 2 Dividends paid to companys shareholders 9 318 424 Net cash used in financing activities 1,759 697 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 16 81 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 794 247 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,424 1,671 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 17 630 1,424 124 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information accounting rules and a new impairment model for financial assets.
The Group will adopt IFRS 9 as at 1 January 2018 and apply the new Pearson plc the company, its subsidiaries and associates together rules retrospectively, with the practical expedients permitted in the the Group are international businesses covering educational standard.
Comparatives for 2017 will not be restated.
The Group courseware, assessments and services, and consumer publishing has assessed the impact of adopting IFRS 9 and is expecting the through its associate interest in Penguin Random House.
following impact: The company is a public limited company incorporated and Classification and measurement The Group has reviewed its domiciled in England.
The address of its registered office is financial assets and liabilities and does not expect any changes in 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
classification or measurement as a result of adopting IFRS 9.
Trade receivables will continue to be measured at amortised cost as they The company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange are held to collect contractual cash flows which represent solely and is also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
payments of principal and interest, in accordance with the business These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue model.
There will be no impact on classification and measurement by the Board of Directors on 14 March 2018. of financial liabilities as the new requirements only affect the accounting for financial liabilities which are designated at fair value 1.
Accounting policies through the profit and loss account, and the Group does not have The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these any such liabilities.
Derivative assets and liabilities will continue to consolidated financial statements are set out below.
be recognised at fair value with movements recognised in finance income or costs, unless the hedging strategy determines otherwise.
Basis of preparation The Groups equity financial investments will continue to be These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the recognised at fair value and the Group has elected the option to going concern basis and in accordance with International Financial recognise all movements in fair value in other comprehensive Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee income FVOCI.
Gains or losses realised on the subsequent sale of IFRS IC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU these financial assets will no longer be recycled through the profit and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to and loss account, but instead reclassified from the FVOCI reserve companies reporting under IFRS.
In respect of the accounting to retained earnings.
During 2017, nil of such gains losses were standards applicable to the Group: there is no difference between recycled to the profit and loss account in relation to the disposal EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under Impairment IFRS 9 introduces a new impairment model which the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial expected credit losses rather than only incurred credit losses, instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group expects this new impairment model will lead to a small increase in its provision for losses against 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards trade debtors, representing anticipated losses evidenced by both effective 2017 The following amendments and interpretations historical recovery rates and forward-looking indicators where were adopted in 2017: there has been no triggering event to suggest any impairment Amendments to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in incurred to date.
The Group expects its provision for losses against Other Entities Annual Improvements 2014-2016 cycle trade debtors as at 1 January 2018 to increase by an amount approximating 1% of gross trade debtors as a result of adopting the Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows expected credit loss model for impairments.
The Group does not Disclosure Initiative anticipate the expected credit loss model having a material impact Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes Recognition of on profit before tax for 2018 unless market conditions or other Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses factors change the outlook for credit losses.
The adoption of these new pronouncements from 1 January Hedge accounting IFRS 9 introduces a new, simpler hedge 2017 does not have a material impact on the consolidated accounting model with a principles-based approach designed to financial statements.
Additional disclosure has been given align the accounting result with the economic hedging strategy.
The group currently uses fair value hedge relationships to hedge interest rate risk and currency risk on its bond borrowings and also 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published uses net investment hedging relationships to hedge currency standards that are not yet effective New accounting standards and re-translation risk on its overseas assets.
The Group has confirmed interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for that its current hedge relationships will continue to qualify as the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Group has elected not to hedges upon the adoption of IFRS 9.
The Group does not currently early-adopt these new standards and interpretations.
The Groups undertake any cash flow hedging, but is reviewing its strategy assessment of the impact of these new standards is set out below.
with regard to currency risk.
Should the Group decide to expand its hedging strategy in this area, changes in fair value relating to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual reporting periods forward points or currency basis may, subject to hedge designation, beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard, which replaces be deferred in a cost of hedging reserve and recognised against the IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, related hedge transaction when it occurs.
addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new hedge Section 5 Financial statements 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Administration fees This relates to non-refundable upfront administration fees charged to customers which do not relate to a.
Basis of preparation continued the transfer of a promised good or service to the customer.
Rather IFRS 9 also requires additional disclosure which will be incorporated these fees are charged to cover internal costs, such as registration in the 2018 annual report.
fees for testing candidate exams.
Historically administration fees have been recognised in revenue up front when charged.
Under IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, effective for IFRS 15, such fees must be deferred and recognised over the period annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. over which services are provided as they do not relate to a specific The standard, which replaces IAS 18 covering contracts for goods performance obligation.
This revised treatment primarily affects and services, and IAS 11 covering construction contracts, addresses the UK Assessments business and will result in higher deferred the recognition of revenue.
The new standard is based on the revenue upon adoption on 1 January 2018. principle that revenue is recognised to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects Commissions This relates to incremental costs of obtaining the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in customer contracts, such as sales incentive plans or sales exchange for those goods or services.
The Group will adopt the commissions specifically linked to obtaining new contracts.
new standard as at 1 January 2018 and apply the modified Historically such commissions have been charged to the profit retrospective approach.
Comparatives for 2017 will not be restated and loss account as incurred.
Under IFRS 15, sales commissions and the cumulative impact of adoption will be recognised in in respect of customer transactions with an accounting period of retained earnings as at 1 January 2018. greater than one year will be capitalised and amortised over that accounting period, using practical expedients permissible under the The Group has reviewed the impact of adopting IFRS 15 across new standard.
This revised treatment affects the US Assessments its various geographies and lines of business, with reference to business and will result in a higher contract asset upon adoption on underlying contractual terms and business practices, and has 1 January 2018. identified four areas of impact, as follows: IFRS 15 also requires increased disclosure, in particular analysis Unexercised customer rights or breakage The Group sells rights of disaggregated revenues, contract balances and transaction price to future performance to customers which may go unexercised.
allocated to remaining performance obligations.
This disclosure While the customer has paid for future performance, usage is at the will be incorporated in the 2018 annual report.
customers discretion and those rights may expire prior to usage, or never be used.
The Group maintains historical customer data Had the Group been applying IFRS 15 during 2017, both sales and to understand usage patterns over time i. e. redemption rates.
profit before tax would have been around 2m higher, with the Where the Group expects to have no future obligation based on balance sheet impact at the beginning and end of the year being these redemption rates, revenue has historically been recognised similar.
The impact on sales and profit before tax for 2018 is not immediately for this portion of the sale.
Under IFRS 15, where the expected to be materially different to 2017, assuming a like-for-like Group currently recognises this breakage element on subscriptions, business portfolio.
The cumulative pre-tax impact of adopting revenue instead will be recognised evenly over the period of use.
IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018 is expected to reduce retained earnings Where breakage relates to sales of tests or vouchers, revenue will be by around 143m, with deferred revenue increasing by 106m, recognised when the underlying tests are delivered.
This revised trade receivables reducing by 38m and contract assets increasing treatment in respect of breakage primarily affects the school and by 1m.
higher education businesses in North America and will result in IFRS 16 Leases, effective for annual reporting periods beginning higher deferred revenue upon adoption on 1 January 2018. on or after 1 January 2019.
The new Online Program Management OPM marketing Historically the standard replaces IAS 17 Leases and related interpretations and OPM Embanet business recognised revenue for the pre-semester details the requirements for the classification, measurement and costs of marketing and recruitment as a separate performance recognition of lease arrangements.
Adoption of the new standard obligation from course delivery during the semester i. e. revenue is likely to have a material impact on the Group.
Management was recognised in line with the marketing costs incurred.
Under continues to assess this impact but cannot reasonably estimate this IFRS 15, revenue will be recognised on a straight-line basis over impact due to judgements which are required to be made for each the semester with no revenue recognised up front for pre-semester lease and the adoption methods available.
The actual impact of recruitment and marketing costs based on managements applying IFRS 16 will depend on the composition of the Groups lease judgement under the new standards requirements assessing portfolio at the adoption date and the extent to which the Group the start of the Groups contract and determining the Groups chooses to use practical expedients and recognition exemptions.
This revised treatment of pre-semester The Group plans to apply IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019, and anticipates costs only affects the OPM business in North America and will using the modified retrospective approach.
Under this approach, result in a lower trade receivable balance upon adoption on the cumulative effect of adopting IFRS 16 will be recognised as 1 January 2018. an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on 1 January 2019, with no restatement of comparative information.
126 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Intangible assets: Pre-publication assets see note 1e 5 Taxation see note 1m a.
Basis of preparation continued Revenue recognition including provisions for returns see note 1p Although the Group has not completed its detailed assessment, Employee benefits: Pensions see note 1n 1 the following changes to lessee accounting are likely to have a Consolidation: Business combinations determination of fair material impact: values where relevant see note 1b 1 Currently no lease assets are included on the Groups consolidated b.
Consolidation balance sheet for operating leases.
Under IFRS 16 right-of-use 1. Business combinations The acquisition method of accounting is assets will be recorded on the balance sheet for assets that are used to account for business combinations.
leased by the Group The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary Currently no lease liabilities are included on the Groups is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred consolidated balance sheet for future operating lease payments: and the equity interest issued by the Group.
The consideration these are disclosed as commitments.
Under IFRS 16 liabilities will transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting be recorded for future lease payments.
As at 31 December 2017, from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related the Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under costs are expensed as incurred in the operating expenses line of non-cancellable operating leases amounted to 1,201m, on an the income statement.
Identifiable assets acquired and identifiable undiscounted basis see note 35 liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business Currently operating lease rentals, net of any incentives received, combination are measured initially at their fair values at the are expensed to the income statement on a straight-line basis acquisition date.
The determination of fair values often requires over the period of the lease.
Under IFRS 16 the lease expense significant judgements and the use of estimates, and, for material will represent the depreciation of the right-of-use asset together acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired intangible assets is with interest charged on lease liabilities determined by an independent valuer.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling Currently operating lease cash flows are included within operating interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any cash flows in the Groups consolidated cash flow statement.
previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Under IFRS 16 these cash flows will be recorded as cash flows identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill see note 30. from financing activities being the repayment of lease liabilities and related interest See note 1e 1 for the accounting policy on goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is similar to IAS 17 accounting and in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
directly in the income statement.
In June 2015, the IASB issued an exposure draft ED 2015 5 On an  basis, the Group recognises any Remeasurement on a Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at Availability of a Refund from a Defined benefit Plan Proposed the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees Amendments to IAS 19 and IFRIC 14.
The proposed amendments net assets.
to IFRIC 14, which may have restricted the Groups ability to recognise a pension asset in respect of pension surpluses in its IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied retrospectively UK defined benefit plan, have now been withdrawn.
to business combinations before the date of transition to IFRS.
A number of other new standards and amendments to standards Management exercises judgement in determining the classification and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning of its investments in its businesses, in line with the following: after 1 January 2017, and have not been applied in preparing these 2.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has financial statements.
None of these is expected to have a material control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, impact on the consolidated financial statements.
or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity 3.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements The preparation and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which use of certain critical accounting assumptions.
It also requires control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the date that control ceases.
The areas requiring a higher degree 3.
Transactions with non-controlling interests Transactions with of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, accounted for as equity transactions, that is, as transactions with are discussed in the relevant accounting policies under the following the owners in their capacity as owners.
Any surplus or deficit arising headings and in the notes to the accounts where appropriate: from disposals to a non-controlling interest is recorded in equity.
Consolidation: Business combinations classification of investments For purchases from a non-controlling interest, the difference see note 1b 1 between consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of Intangible assets: Goodwill see note 1e 1 the carrying value of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Section 5 Financial statements 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Group companies The results and financial position of all Group companies that have a functional currency different from the b.
Consolidation continued presentation currency are translated into the presentation 4.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities in which currency as follows: the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and has rights i A ssets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date to the net assets through contractually agreed sharing of control.
of the balance sheet Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not the power to control the financial and operating ii Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% iii A ll resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate and 50% of the voting rights.
Ownership percentage is likely to be component of equity.
the key indicator of investment classification: however, other factors, such as Board representation, may also affect the accounting On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation classification.
Judgement is required to assess all of the qualitative of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and quantitative factors which may indicate that the Group does, and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such or does not, have significant influence over an investment.
Penguin investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
The Group treats Random House is the Groups only material associate see note 12 specific inter-company loan balances, which are not intended to for further details on the judgements involved in its accounting be repaid in the foreseeable future, as part of its net investment.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are accounted for by the equity method and are initially recognised recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss at the fair value of consideration transferred.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates postThe principal overseas currency for the Group is the US dollar.
acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement The average rate for the year against sterling was $1.30 and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is 2016: $1.33 and the year-end rate was $1.35 2016: $1.23.
d. Property, plant and equipment The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates results is Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less recognised as a component of operating profit as these operations depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset form part of the core publishing business of the Group and are an and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working integral part of existing wholly-owned businesses.
The cumulative condition for intended use.
Depreciation post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in allocate their cost less their residual values over their estimated a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its interest in the joint useful lives as follows: venture or associate, the Group does not recognise further losses unless the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on Buildings freehold : 2050 years behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Buildings leasehold : over the period of the lease 5.
Contribution of a subsidiary to an associate or joint venture Plant and equipment: 310 years The gain or loss resulting from the contribution or sale of a subsidiary to an associate or a joint venture is recognised in full.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, Where such transactions do not involve cash consideration, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
significant judgements and estimates are used in determining The carrying value of an asset is written down to its recoverable the fair values of the consideration received.
amount if the carrying value of the asset is greater than its c. Foreign currency translation estimated recoverable amount.
Functional and presentation currency Items included in the e. Intangible assets financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured 1.
Goodwill For the acquisition of subsidiaries made on or after using the currency of the primary economic environment in which 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the consideration the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity companys functional and presentation currency.
interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net 2.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are assets acquired.
For the acquisition of subsidiaries made from the translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates date of transition to IFRS to 31 December 2009, goodwill represents prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and Groups share of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill on from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in on acquisition of associates and joint ventures represents the excess the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share net investment hedges.
of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in investments in associates and joint ventures.
128 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued The investment in pre-publication assets has been disclosed as part of cash generated from operations in the cash flow statement e. Intangible assets continued see note 33.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at The assessment of the recoverability of pre-publication assets cost less accumulated impairment losses.
An impairment loss is involve a significant degree of judgement based on historical trends recognised to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds and management estimation of future potential sales.
An incorrect the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of amortisation profile could result in excess amounts being carried fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
These calculations forward as intangible assets that would otherwise have been require the use of estimates in respect of forecast cash flows and written off to the income statement in an earlier period.
discount rates and significant management judgement in respect of CGU and cost allocation.
A description of the key assumptions Reviews are performed regularly to estimate recoverability of and sensitivities is included in note 11.
Goodwill is allocated to pre-publication assets.
The carrying amount of pre-publication aggregated cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment assets is set out in note 20. testing.
The allocation is made to those aggregated cash-generating f. Other financial assets units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Other financial assets, designated as available for sale investments, are non-derivative financial assets measured at estimated fair Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying value.
Changes in the fair value are recorded in equity in the fair amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
On the subsequent disposal of the asset, the net 2.
Acquired software Software separately acquired for internal fair value gains or losses are taken to the income statement.
use is capitalised at cost.
Software acquired in material business g. Inventories combinations is capitalised at its fair value as determined by Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Acquired software is amortised on a Cost is determined using the first in first out FIFO method.
The cost straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of between of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, three and eight years.
direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads.
Internally developed software Internal and external costs Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary incurred during the preliminary stage of developing computer course of business, less estimated costs necessary to make the software for internal use are expensed as incurred.
Provisions are made for slow-moving and obsolete stock.
external costs incurred to develop computer software for internal h. Royalty advances use during the application development stage are capitalised if the Group expects economic benefits from the development.
Advances of royalties to authors are included within trade and other Capitalisation in the application development stage begins once receivables when the advance is paid less any provision required to the Group can reliably measure the expenditure attributable to adjust the advance to its net realisable value.
The realisable value the software development and has demonstrated its intention of royalty advances relies on a degree of management judgement in to complete and use the software.
Internally developed software determining the profitability of individual author contracts.
If the is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life estimated realisable value of author contracts is overstated, this of between three and eight years.
will have an adverse effect on operating profits as these excess amounts will be written off.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible assets include customer lists, contracts and relationships, trademarks and The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon an annual brands, publishing rights, content, technology and software rights.
detailed management review of the age of the advance, the These assets are capitalised on acquisition at cost and included in future sales projections for new authors and prior sales history intangible assets.
Intangible assets acquired in material business of repeat authors.
combinations are capitalised at their fair value as determined by The royalty advance is expensed at the contracted or effective an independent valuer.
Intangible assets are amortised over their royalty rate as the related revenues are earned.
Royalty advances estimated useful lives of between two and 20 years, using an which will be consumed within one year are held in current assets.
amortisation method that reflects the pattern of their consumption.
Royalty advances which will be consumed after one year are held 5.
Pre-publication assets Pre-publication assets represent direct in non-current assets.
costs incurred in the development of educational programmes and titles prior to their publication.
These costs are recognised as current intangible assets where the title will generate probable future economic benefits and costs can be measured reliably.
Pre-publication assets are amortised upon publication of the title over estimated economic lives of five years or less, being an estimate of the expected operating lifecycle of the title, with a higher proportion of the amortisation taken in the earlier years.
Section 5 Financial statements 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Reporting of gains Typical reason and losses on effective Reporting of gains and for designation portion of the hedge losses on disposal i.
Cash and cash equivalents Net investment hedge Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly The derivative creates a Recognised in other On disposal, the liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, foreign currency liability comprehensive accumulated value and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings which is used to hedge income.
of gains and losses changes in the value reported in other in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
of a subsidiary which comprehensive income Short-term deposits and marketable securities with maturities transacts in that is transferred to the of greater than three months do not qualify as cash and cash currency.
equivalents and are reported as financial assets.
Movements on Fair value hedges these financial assets are classified as cash flows from financing The derivative Gains and losses If the debt and activities in the cash flow statement where these amounts are transforms the interest on the derivative derivative are disposed used to offset the borrowings of the Group or as cash flows from profile on debt from are reported in finance of, the value of the investing activities where these amounts are held to generate an fixed rate to floating rate.
income or finance derivative and the debt investment return.
Changes in the value of costs.
However, an including the fair value the debt as a result of equal and opposite adjustment are reset j.
Share capital changes in interest rates change is made to the to zero.
Any resultant Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
are offset by equal and carrying value of the gain or loss is opposite changes in the debt a fair value recognised in Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares value of the derivative.
adjustment with the finance income or or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from When the Groups debt benefit cost reported finance costs.
is swapped to floating in finance income or rates, the contracts used finance costs.
The net Where any Group company purchases the companys equity share are designated as fair result should be a zero capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any value hedges.
charge on a perfectly directly attributable incremental costs, net of income taxes, is effective hedge.
deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity holders Non-hedge accounted contracts until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where These are not designated No hedge accounting such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration as hedging instruments.
received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs and Typically these are shortthe related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable term contracts to convert to the companys equity holders.
debt back to fixed rates or foreign exchange Ordinary shares purchased under a buyback programme are contracts where a cancelled and the nominal value of the shares is transferred to a natural offset exists.
m. Taxation k. Borrowings Current tax is recognised at the amounts expected to be paid Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which is proceeds or recovered under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted received net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value Deferred income tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability being recognised in the income statement over the period of the method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases borrowings using the effective interest method.
Accrued interest is of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts.
Deferred income included as part of borrowings.
Where a debt instrument is in a fair tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted value hedging relationship, an adjustment is made to its carrying or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are value in the income statement to reflect the hedged risk.
expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
l. Derivative financial instruments Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Derivatives are recognised at fair value and remeasured at each that future taxable profit will be available against which the balance sheet date.
The fair value of derivatives is determined by temporary differences can be utilised.
using market data and the use of established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures other than Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised immediately where it is intended that those undistributed earnings will not be in finance income or costs.
However, derivatives relating to remitted in the foreseeable future.
borrowings and certain foreign exchange contracts are designated as part of a hedging transaction.
The accounting treatment is summarised as follows: 130 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an operating expense in the income m. Taxation continued statement as incurred.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, 2.
Other post-retirement obligations The expected costs of postexcept when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly retirement medical and life assurance benefits are accrued over to equity or other comprehensive income, in which case the tax the period of employment, using a similar accounting methodology is also recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
as for defined benefit pension obligations.
The liabilities and costs The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
relating to significant other post-retirement obligations are assessed Significant judgement is required in determining the estimates annually by independent qualified actuaries.
in relation to the worldwide provision for income taxes.
Share-based payments The fair value of options or shares granted are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax under the Groups share and option plans is recognised as an determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
employee expense after taking into account the Groups best The Group recognises tax provisions when it is considered probable estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
Fair value is that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax authority.
measured at the date of grant and is spread over the vesting period The provisions are based on managements best judgement of the of the option or share.
The fair value of the options granted is application of tax legislation and best estimates of future settlement measured using an option model that is most appropriate to the amounts see note 7.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters award.
The fair value of shares awarded is measured using the is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such share price at the date of grant unless another method is more differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions appropriate.
Any proceeds received are credited to share capital in the period in which such determination is made.
and share premium when the options are exercised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement o.
Provisions Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more significant judgement is used when assessing the extent to which likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle deferred tax assets should be recognised with consideration given the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions to the timing and level of future taxable income together with any are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
future tax planning strategies see note 13.
The Group recognises a provision for deferred consideration.
n. Employee benefits Where this is contingent on future performance or a future event, 1.
Pensions The retirement benefit asset and obligation recognised judgement is exercised in establishing the fair value.
in the balance sheet represents the net of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at the The Group recognises a provision for onerous lease contracts when balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is The provision is based on the present value of future payments for determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using surplus leased properties under non-cancellable operating leases, yields on high-quality corporate bonds which have terms to net of estimated sub-leasing income.
maturity approximating the terms of the related liability.
p. Revenue recognition When the calculation results in a potential asset, the recognition The Groups revenue streams are courseware, assessments and of that asset is limited to the asset ceiling that is the present value services.
Courseware includes curriculum materials provided in of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the book form and or via access to digital content.
Assessments plan or a reduction in future contributions.
Management uses includes test development, processing and scoring services judgement to determine the level of refunds available from the provided to governments, educational institutions, corporations plan in recognising an asset.
Services includes the operation of schools, The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit colleges and universities, including sistemas in Brazil and English obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes depends language teaching centres around the world as well as the provision on the selection of certain assumptions, which include the discount of online learning services in partnership with universities and other rate, inflation rate, salary growth and longevity see note 25. academic institutions.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity or receivable for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
rebates and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
The service cost, representing benefits accruing over the year, is included in the income statement as an operating cost.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit obligation and is presented as finance costs or finance income.
Section 5 Financial statements 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has p. Revenue recognition continued substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as Revenue from the sale of books is recognised when title passes.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement A provision for anticipated returns is made based primarily on of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property historical return rates, customer buying patterns and retailer and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease behaviours including stock levels see note 22.
If these estimates do payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges not reflect actual returns in future periods then revenues could be to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
understated or overstated for a particular period.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in financial liabilities borrowings.
The interest element of Revenue from the sale of off-the-shelf software is recognised on the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease delivery or on installation of the software where that is a condition period to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the of the contract.
In certain circumstances, where installation is remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The property, complex, revenue is recognised when the customer has completed plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated their acceptance procedures.
Where software is provided under over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
a term licence, revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the licence.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating Revenue from the provision of services to academic institutions, leases by the lessee.
Payments made under operating leases net of such as programme development, student acquisition, education any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income technology and student support services, is recognised as statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Revenue from multi-year contractual arrangements, such as contracts to process qualifying tests for r. Dividends individual professions and government departments, is recognised Final dividends are recorded in the Groups financial statements as performance occurs.
The assumptions, risks and uncertainties in the period in which they are approved by the companys inherent to long-term contract accounting can affect the amounts shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded when paid.
and timing of revenue and related expenses reported.
Certain of these arrangements, either as a result of a single service spanning s. Discontinued operations more than one reporting period or where the contract requires the A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business provision of a number of services that together constitute a single that represents a separate major line of business or geographical project, are treated as long-term contracts with revenue recognised area of operations that has been disposed of or meets the criteria on a percentage of completion basis.
Percentage of completion is to be classified as held for sale.
calculated on a cost basis using the proportion of the total estimated costs incurred to date.
Losses on contracts are recognised in the Discontinued operations are presented in the income statement period in which the loss first becomes foreseeable.
Contract losses as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
are determined to be the amount by which estimated total costs t. Assets and liabilities held for sale of the contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale and stated at the be generated.
lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if it is highly Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate probable that the carrying amount will be recovered principally elements that can be provided to customers either on a stand-alone through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
basis or as an optional extra, such as the provision of supplementary No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets materials or online access with textbooks and multiple deliverables classified as held for sale.
Amounts relating to non-current assets within testing or service contracts, revenue is recognised for each and liabilities held for sale are classified as discontinued operations element as if it were an individual contractual arrangement.
This in the income statement where appropriate.
requires judgement regarding the identification of the individual u.
Trade receivables elements as well as the estimation of its relative fair value.
Trade receivables are stated at fair value after provision for bad and On certain contracts, where the Group acts as agent, only doubtful debts and anticipated future sales returns see also note 1p.
commissions and fees receivable for services rendered are recognised as revenue.
Any third-party costs incurred on behalf of the principal that are rechargeable under the contractual arrangement are not included in revenue.
Income from recharges of freight and other activities which are incidental to the normal revenue-generating activities is included in other income.
132 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.
Segment information The primary segments for management and reporting are geographies as outlined below.
In addition, the Group separately discloses the results from the Penguin Random House associate.
The chief operating decision-maker is the Pearson executive.
North America Courseware, Assessments and Services businesses in the US and Canada.
Core Courseware, Assessments and Services businesses in more mature markets including UK, Australia and Italy.
Growth Courseware, Assessments and Services businesses in emerging markets including Brazil, China, India and South Africa.
For more detail on the services and products included in each business segment refer to the strategic report.
2017 Penguin North Random All figures in millions Notes America Core Growth House Corporate Group Sales 2,929 815 769 4,513 Adjusted operating profit 394 50 38 94 576 Cost of major restructuring 60 11 8 79 Intangible charges 89 12 37 28 166 Other net gains and losses 3 35 96 128 Impact of US tax reform 8 8 Operating profit 242 27 28 154 451 Finance costs 6 110 Finance income 6 80 Profit before tax 421 Income tax 7 13 Profit for the year 408 Segment assets 4,116 1,914 667 793 7,490 Joint ventures 12 3 3 Associates 12 4 3 388 395 Total assets 4,120 1,917 670 388 793 7,888 Other segment items Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 5 1 1 71 78 Capital expenditure 10, 11 162 35 43 240 Pre-publication investment 20 218 84 59 361 Depreciation 10 56 13 21 90 Amortisation 11, 20 348 103 110 561 Impairment 11 Section 5 Financial statements 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.
Segment information continued 2016 Penguin North Random All figures in millions Notes America Core Growth House Corporate Group Sales 2,981 803 768 4,552 Adjusted operating profit 420 57 29 129 635 Cost of major restructuring 172 62 95 9 338 Intangible charges 2,684 16 33 36 2,769 Other net gains and losses 12 12 1 25 Operating loss profit 2,448 33 100 84 2,497 Finance costs 6 97 Finance income 6 37 Loss before tax 2,557 Income tax 7 222 Loss for the year 2,335 Segment assets 4,859 1,461 859 1,640 8,819 Joint ventures 12 2 2 Associates 12 1 4 1,240 1,245 Total assets 4,860 1,465 861 1,240 1,640 10,066 Other segment items Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 1 1 1 98 97 Capital expenditure 10, 11 153 42 51 246 Pre-publication investment 20 235 92 68 395 Depreciation 10 56 12 27 95 Amortisation 11, 20 394 109 116 619 Impairment 11 2,548 2,548 There were no material inter-segment sales in either 2017 or 2016. date relating to this new programme were 79m at the end of 2017 and related to cost efficiencies in higher education and enabling For additional detailed information on the calculation of adjusted functions together with further rationalisation of the property operating profit as shown in the above tables, see p192-195 portfolio.
The costs of this new programme have also been excluded Financial key performance indicators.
from adjusted operating profit see note 3.
Adjusted operating profit is shown in the above tables as it is the Intangible charges These represent charges in respect of goodwill, key financial measure used by management to evaluate the including impairment, and intangible assets acquired through performance of the Group and allocate resources to business business combinations and the direct costs of acquiring those segments.
The measure also enables investors to more easily, businesses.
These charges are excluded as they reflect past and consistently, track the underlying operational performance of acquisition activity and do not necessarily reflect the current year the Group and its business segments by separating out those items performance of the Group.
In 2016, intangible charges included an of income and expenditure relating to acquisition and disposal impairment of goodwill in the Groups North America business of transactions and major restructuring programmes.
There was no impairment in 2017.
Cost of major restructuring In January 2016, the Group announced Other net gains and losses These represent profits and losses on the that it was embarking on a restructuring programme to simplify sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other financial the business, reduce costs and position the Group for growth in its assets and are excluded from adjusted operating profit as they major markets.
The costs of this programme of 338m in 2016 were distort the performance of the Group as reported on a statutory significant enough to exclude from the adjusted operating profit basis.
Other net gains of 128m in 2017 largely relate to the sale of measure so as to better highlight the underlying performance.
the test preparation business in China which resulted in a profit on These costs included costs associated with headcount reductions, sale of 44m and the part sale of the Groups share in Penguin property rationalisation and closure or exit from certain systems, Random House which resulted in a profit of 96m see note 31. platforms, products and supplier and customer relationships.
In 2016, the net losses in the Core segment mainly relate to the A new programme of restructuring, announced in May 2017, to run closure of the Groups English language schools in Germany and in between 2017 and 2019, began in the second half of 2017 and is the North America segment relate to the sale of the Pearson English expected to drive further significant cost savings.
Costs incurred to Business Solutions business.
134 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.
Segment information continued Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets acquired Impact of US tax reform In 2017, as a result of US tax reform, the Groups share of profit from associates was adversely impacted by through business combination were nil 2016: 10m 8m.
This amount has been excluded from adjusted operating profit see note 30. as it is considered to be a transition adjustment that is not expected The following tables analyse the Groups revenue streams.
to recur in the near future.
Courseware includes curriculum materials provided in book form Corporate costs are allocated to business segments on an and or via access to digital content.
Assessments includes test appropriate basis depending on the nature of the cost and therefore development, processing and scoring services provided to the total segment result is equal to the Group operating profit.
governments, educational institutions, corporations and professional bodies.
Services includes the operation of schools, Segment assets, excluding corporate assets, consist of property, colleges and universities, including sistemas in Brazil and English plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories, receivables, language teaching centres around the world as well as the provision deferred taxation and other financial assets and exclude cash of online learning services in partnership with universities and and cash equivalents and derivative assets.
Corporate assets other academic institutions.
comprise cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and derivative financial instruments.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and software see notes 10 and 11.
2017 North All figures in millions America Core Growth Group Sales: Courseware School Courseware 394 171 139 704 Higher Education Courseware 1,146 93 63 1,302 English Courseware 20 60 102 182 1,560 324 304 2,188 Assessments School and Higher Education Assessments 355 256 23 634 Clinical Assessments 146 46 192 Professional and English Certification 341 138 60 539 842 440 83 1,365 Services School Services 274 5 54 333 Higher Education Services 253 34 32 319 English Services 12 296 308 527 51 382 960 Total 2,929 815 769 4,513 Section 5 Financial statements 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.
Segment information continued 2016 North All figures in millions America Core Growth Group Sales: Courseware School Courseware 418 173 127 718 Higher Education Courseware 1,147 92 60 1,299 English Courseware 21 65 97 183 1,586 330 284 2,200 Assessments School and Higher Education Assessments 378 268 21 667 Clinical Assessments 143 40 183 Professional and English Certification 333 112 49 494 854 420 70 1,344 Services School Services 259 6 54 319 Higher Education Services 269 29 46 344 English Services 13 18 314 345 541 53 414 1,008 Total 2,981 803 768 4,552 The Group operates in the following main geographic areas: Sales Non-current assets All figures in millions 2017 2016 2017 2016 UK 384 393 796 946 Other European countries 262 255 128 134 US 2,770 2,829 2,247 3,351 Canada 126 118 240 268 Asia Pacific 643 632 151 205 Other countries 328 325 184 232 Total 4,513 4,552 3,746 5,136 Sales are allocated based on the country in which the customer is located.
This does not differ materially from the location where the order is received.
The geographical split of non-current assets is based on the subsidiarys country of domicile.
This is not materially different to the location of the assets.
Non-current assets comprise property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates and trade and other receivables.
136 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.
Restructuring costs An analysis of restructuring costs is as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 By nature: Product costs 15 32 Employee costs 11 139 Depreciation and amortisation 13 29 Property and facilities 24 43 Technology and communications 2 7 Professional and outsourced services 12 31 General and administrative costs 2 48 Total restructuring operating expenses 79 329 Share of associate restructuring 9 Total 79 338 In January 2016, the Group announced that it was embarking on a restructuring programme to simplify the business, reduce costs and position the Group for growth in its major markets.
The costs of this programme in 2016 were significant enough to exclude from the adjusted operating profit measure so as to better highlight the underlying performance see note 8.
A new programme of restructuring, the 2017-2019 restructuring programme announced in May 2017, began in the second half of 2017 and is expected to drive further significant cost savings.
The costs of this new programme have also been excluded from adjusted operating profit.
Operating expenses All figures in millions Notes 2017 2016 By function: Cost of goods sold 2,066 2,093 Operating expenses Distribution costs 84 88 Selling, marketing and product development costs 896 908 Administrative and other expenses 1,207 1,240 Restructuring costs 3 79 329 Other income 64 85 Total net operating expenses 2,202 2,480 Other net gains and losses 128 25 Impairment of intangible assets 11 2,548 Total 4,140 7,146 Included in other income is service fee income from Penguin Random House of 3m 2016: 4m.
Included in administrative and other expenses are research and efficacy costs of 14m 2016: 23m.
In addition to the restructuring costs shown above, there were restructuring costs in Penguin Random House of nil 2016: 9m.
Section 5 Financial statements 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4.
Operating expenses continued All figures in millions Notes 2017 2016 By nature: Royalties expensed 246 264 Other product costs 564 616 Employee benefit expense 5 1,805 1,888 Contract labour 152 206 Employee-related expense 127 122 Promotional costs 229 217 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 90 95 Amortisation of intangible assets pre-publication 20 338 350 Amortisation of intangible assets software 11 85 84 Amortisation of intangible assets other 11 138 185 Impairment of intangible assets 11 2,548 Property and facilities 202 243 Technology and communications 218 188 Professional and outsourced services 322 378 Other general and administrative costs 140 140 Costs capitalised to intangible assets 324 318 Other net gains and losses 128 25 Other income 64 85 Total 4,140 7,146 During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditors: All figures in millions 2017 2016 The audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 4 5 The audit of the companys subsidiaries 2 2 Total audit fees 6 7 Other assurance services 1 1 Other non-audit services 1 1 Total other services 2 2 Total non-audit services 2 2 Total 8 9 Reconciliation between audit and non-audit service fees is shown below: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Group audit fees including fees for attestation under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 6 7 Non-audit fees 2 2 Total 8 9 Fees for attestation under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are allocated between fees payable for the audits of consolidated and subsidiary accounts.
Included in non-audit fees are amounts related to carve-out audits for disposals of 1m 2016: 1m.
138 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.
Employee information All figures in millions Notes 2017 2016 Employee benefit expense Wages and salaries including termination costs 1,567 1,661 Social security costs 130 124 Share-based payment costs 26 33 22 Retirement benefits defined contribution plans 25 57 67 Retirement benefits defined benefit plans 25 19 16 Other post-retirement medical benefits 25 1 2 Total 1,805 1,888 The details of the emoluments of the Directors of Pearson plc are shown in the report on Directors remuneration.
Net finance costs All figures in millions Notes 2017 2016 Interest payable 99 74 Net foreign exchange losses 21 Finance costs associated with transactions 6 Derivatives not in a hedge relationship 5 2 Finance costs 110 97 Interest receivable 20 15 Net finance income in respect of retirement benefits 25 3 11 Net foreign exchange gains 44 1 Derivatives not in a hedge relationship 12 10 Derivatives in a hedge relationship 1 Finance income 80 37 Net finance costs 30 60 Analysed as: Net interest payable reflected in adjusted earnings 79 59 Other net finance income costs 49 1 Total net finance costs 30 60 Included in interest receivable is 1m 2016: 1m of interest receivable from related parties.
There was a net movement of 1m on fair value hedges in 2017 2016: nil, comprising a gain of 37m 2016: loss of 4m on the underlying bonds, offset by a loss of 36m 2016: gain of 4m on the related derivative financial instruments.
For further information on adjusted measures above, see note 8.
Section 5 Financial statements 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 7.
Income tax All figures in millions Notes 2017 2016 Current tax Charge in respect of current year 121 66 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2 27 Total current tax charge 123 39 Deferred tax In respect of temporary differences 96 277 Other adjustments in respect of prior years 14 16 Total deferred tax credit 13 110 261 Total tax charge credit 13 222 The adjustments in respect of prior years in both 2017 and 2016 primarily arise from revising the previous years reported tax provision to reflect the tax returns subsequently filed.
This results in a change between deferred and current tax as well as an absolute benefit to the total tax charge.
The tax on the Groups profit loss before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK tax rate as follows.
Information for 2016 has been re-presented to give additional disclosure.
All figures in millions 2017 2016 Profit loss before tax 421 2,557 Tax calculated at UK rate 2017: 19.25%, 2016: 20% 81 511 Effect of overseas tax rates 15 424 Joint venture and associate income reported net of tax 15 19 Intangible impairment not subject to tax 722 Intra-group financing benefit 26 34 Movement in provisions for tax uncertainties 49 37 Impact of US tax reform 1 Net expense not subject to tax 39 8 Gains and losses on sale of businesses not subject to tax 8 15 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses and credits 1 Unrecognised tax losses 16 25 Adjustments in respect of prior years 12 11 Total tax charge credit 13 222 UK 36 46 Overseas 23 176 Total tax charge credit 13 222 Tax rate reflected in earnings 3.1% 8.7% The impact of US tax reform includes a benefit from revaluation of deferred tax balances to the reduced federal rate of 5m and a repatriation tax charge of 6m.
The Group continues to analyse the detail of new legislation and this may result in revisions to these impacts.
Factors which may affect future tax charges include changes in tax legislation, transfer pricing regulations, the level and mix of profitability in different countries, and settlements with tax authorities.
The movement in provisions for tax uncertainties primarily reflects releases due to the expiry of relevant statutes of limitation.
The current tax liability of 231m 2016: 224m includes 280m 2016: 322m of provisions for tax uncertainties principally in respect of a number of issues in the US, the UK and China.
The issues provided for include the allocation between territories of proceeds of historic business disposals, and the potential disallowance of intra-group recharges and interest expense.
The Group is currently under audit in a number of countries, and the timing of any resolution of these audits is uncertain.
Of the balance of 280m, 38m relates to 2013 and earlier and is mostly under audit.
In most countries tax years up to and including 2013 are now statute barred from examination by tax authorities.
If relevant enquiry windows pass with no audit, management believes it is reasonably possible that provision levels will reduce by an estimated 60m within the next 12 months.
140 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 7.
Income tax continued In 2016 the Group impaired US goodwill see note 11.
The majority of this impairment charge is not deductible for tax purposes.
The tax rate reflected in adjusted earnings is calculated as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Profit loss before tax 421 2,557 Adjustments: Cost of major restructuring 79 338 Other net gains and losses 128 25 Intangible charges 166 2,769 Other net finance income costs 49 1 Impact of US tax reform 8 Adjusted profit before tax 497 576 Total tax charge credit 13 222 Adjustments: Tax benefit on cost of major restructuring 26 84 Tax charge benefit on other net gains and losses 20 14 Tax benefit on intangible charges 85 255 Tax charge on other net finance income costs 9 Impact of US tax reform 1 Tax amortisation benefit on goodwill and intangibles 39 36 Adjusted income tax charge 55 95 Tax rate reflected in adjusted earnings 11.1% 16.5% For further information on adjusted measures above, see note 8.
The tax charge benefit recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 9 5 Fair value gain on other financial assets 4 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 42 58 37 53 Section 5 Financial statements 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8.
Earnings per share Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders of the company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the company and held as treasury shares.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares to take account of all dilutive potential ordinary shares and adjusting the profit attributable, if applicable, to account for any tax consequences that might arise from conversion of those shares.
All figures in millions 2017 2016 Earnings loss for the year 408 2,335 Non-controlling interest 2 2 Earnings loss attributable to equity holders of the company 406 2,337 Weighted average number of shares millions 813.4 814.8 Effect of dilutive share options millions 0.3 Weighted average number of shares millions for diluted earnings 813.7 814.8 Earnings loss per share Basic 49.9p 286.8 p Diluted 49.9p 286.8 p Adjusted Other net gains and losses These represent profits and losses on the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other financial For additional detailed information on the calculation of adjusted assets and are excluded from adjusted earnings as they distort the measures, see p192-195 Financial key performance indicators.
performance of the Group as reported on a statutory basis.
See note 2 for details of specific items excluded from or included in adjusted operating profit in 2017 and 2016.
Intangible charges These represent charges in respect of goodwill, including impairment, and intangible assets acquired through In order to show results from operating activities on a consistent business combinations and the direct costs of acquiring those basis, an adjusted earnings per share is presented.
These charges are excluded as they reflect past acquisition definition of adjusted earnings per share may not be comparable activity and do not necessarily reflect the current year performance with other similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
Adjusted earnings is a non-GAAP non-statutory financial measure Other net finance income costs These include finance costs in and is included as it is a key financial measure used by management respect of retirement benefits, finance costs of deferred to evaluate the performance of the Group and allocate resources consideration and foreign exchange and other gains and losses.
The measure also enables investors to Finance income relating to retirement benefits is excluded as more easily, and consistently, track the underlying operational management does not believe that the consolidated income performance of the Group and its business segments by separating statement presentation under IAS 19 reflects the economic out those items of income and expenditure relating to acquisition substance of the underlying assets and liabilities.
Finance costs and disposal transactions, and major restructuring programmes.
associated with transactions are excluded as these relate to future Adjusted earnings per share is calculated as adjusted earnings earn-outs or acquisition expenses and are not part of the underlying divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue on financing.
Foreign exchange and other gains and losses are excluded an undiluted basis.
The following items are excluded from or as they represent short-term fluctuations in market value and are included in adjusted earnings: subject to significant volatility.
Other gains and losses may not be realised in due course as it is normally the intention to hold the Cost of major restructuring In January 2016, the Group announced related instruments to maturity.
In 2017 and 2016, the foreign that it was embarking on a restructuring programme to simplify exchange gains and losses largely relate to foreign exchange the business, reduce costs and position the Group for growth in its differences on unhedged US dollar and euro loans, cash and major markets.
The costs of this programme in 2016 were significant cash equivalents.
enough to exclude from the adjusted operating profit measure so as to better highlight the underlying performance.
A new programme of restructuring, announced in May 2017, began in the second half of 2017 and is expected to drive further significant cost savings.
See note 3 for an analysis of these costs.
142 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8.
Earnings per share continued Adjusted continued Impact of US tax reform In 2017, as a result of US tax reform, the Groups share of profit from associates was adversely impacted by 8m.
This amount has been excluded from adjusted earnings as it is considered to be a transition adjustment that is not expected to recur in the near future.
Tax Tax on the above items is excluded from adjusted earnings.
Where relevant the Group also excludes the benefit from recognising previously unrecognised pre-acquisition and capital losses.
As a result of US tax reform in 2017, the reported tax charge on a statutory basis includes a benefit from the revaluation of deferred tax balances to the reduced federal rate of 5m and a repatriation tax charge of 6m.
The tax benefit from tax deductible goodwill and intangibles is added to the adjusted income tax charge as this benefit more accurately aligns the adjusted tax charge with the expected rate of cash tax payments.
Non-controlling interest Non-controlling interest for the above items is excluded from adjusted earnings.
The following tables reconcile the statutory income statement to the adjusted income statement.
2017 Other net Statutory Cost of Other net finance Tax Adjusted income major gains and Intangible income Impact of US amortisation income All figures in millions statement restructuring losses charges costs tax reform benefit statement Operating profit loss 451 79 128 166 8 576 Net finance costs 30 49 79 Profit loss before tax 421 79 128 166 49 8 497 Income tax 13 26 20 85 9 1 39 55 Profit loss for the year 408 53 108 81 40 9 39 442 Non-controlling interest 2 2 Earnings loss 406 53 108 81 40 9 39 440 Weighted average number of shares millions 813.4 813.4 Weighted average number of shares millions for diluted earnings 813.7 813.7 Earnings per share basic 49.9p 54.1p Earnings per share diluted 49.9p 54.1p 2016 Other net Statutory Cost of Other net finance Tax Adjusted income major gains and Intangible income Impact of US amortisation income All figures in millions statement restructuring losses charges costs tax reform benefit statement Operating loss profit 2,497 338 25 2,769 635 Net finance costs 60 1 59 Loss profit before tax 2,557 338 25 2,769 1 576 Income tax 222 84 14 255 36 95 Loss profit for the year 2,335 254 11 2,514 1 36 481 Non-controlling interest 2 2 Loss earnings 2,337 254 11 2,514 1 36 479 Weighted average number of shares millions 814.8 814.8 Weighted average number of shares millions for diluted earnings 814.8 814.8 Loss earnings per share basic 286.8 p 58.8p Loss earnings per share diluted 286.8 p 58.8p Section 5 Financial statements 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 9.
Dividends All figures in millions 2017 2016 Final paid in respect of prior year 34.0p 2016: 34.0p 277 277 Interim paid in respect of current year 5.0p 2016: 18.0p 41 147 318 424 The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2017 of 12.0p per share which will absorb an estimated 93m of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 11 May 2018 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 6 April 2018.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in Land and Plant and course of All figures in millions buildings equipment construction Total Cost At 1 January 2016 359 508 22 889 Exchange differences 44 83 2 129 Additions 26 59 4 89 Disposals 26 100 126 Disposal through business disposal 1 2 3 Reclassifications 4 12 8 At 31 December 2016 398 560 20 978 Exchange differences 20 29 2 51 Additions 26 40 24 90 Disposals 13 34 47 Disposal through business disposal 11 5 16 Reclassifications 5 8 13 Transfer to intangible assets 11 11 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 55 2 57 At 31 December 2017 330 527 29 886 Assets in Land and Plant and course of All figures in millions buildings equipment construction Total Depreciation At 1 January 2016 192 377 569 Exchange differences 26 62 88 Charge for the year 34 61 95 Disposals 22 95 117 Reclassifications 1 1 At 31 December 2016 229 406 635 Exchange differences 12 23 35 Charge for the year 35 55 90 Disposals 9 26 35 Disposal through business disposal 6 3 9 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 40 1 41 At 31 December 2017 197 408 605 Carrying amounts At 1 January 2016 167 131 22 320 At 31 December 2016 169 154 20 343 At 31 December 2017 133 119 29 281 144 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 10.
Property, plant and equipment continued Depreciation expense of 23m 2016: 21m has been included in the income statement in cost of goods sold and 67m 2016: 74m in operating expenses.
The Group leases certain equipment under a number of finance lease agreements.
The net carrying amount of leased plant and equipment included within property, plant and equipment was 9m 2016: 10m.
Intangible assets Acquired customer lists, Acquired Acquired Other contracts and trademarks publishing intangibles All figures in millions Goodwill Software relationships and brands rights acquired Total Cost At 1 January 2016 4,134 619 860 281 180 509 6,583 Exchange differences 752 85 157 65 31 135 1,225 Impairment 2,548 2,548 Additions internal development 132 132 Additions purchased 25 25 Disposals 49 37 86 Acquisition through business combination 3 7 3 13 Disposal through business disposal 6 47 53 Transfer to intangible assets pre-publication 14 14 At 31 December 2016 2,341 798 974 353 211 600 5,277 Exchange differences 148 46 74 26 6 50 350 Impairment Additions internal development 133 133 Additions purchased 17 17 Disposals 23 23 Disposal through business disposal 4 9 19 27 59 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 11 11 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 163 4 2 27 21 34 251 At 31 December 2017 2,030 882 889 281 184 489 4,755 Section 5 Financial statements 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11.
Intangible assets continued Acquired customer lists, Acquired Acquired Other contracts and trademarks publishing intangibles All figures in millions Goodwill Software relationships and brands rights acquired Total Amortisation At 1 January 2016 357 430 155 163 314 1,419 Exchange differences 60 83 32 27 75 277 Charge for the year 84 85 22 8 70 269 Disposals 38 37 75 Disposal through business disposal 6 47 53 Transfer to intangible assets pre-publication 2 2 At 31 December 2016 461 555 209 198 412 1,835 Exchange differences 30 43 13 4 36 126 Charge for the year 85 77 18 3 40 223 Disposals 21 21 Disposal through business disposal 2 8 18 22 50 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 1 16 19 34 70 At 31 December 2017 493 580 180 178 360 1,791 Carrying amounts At 1 January 2016 4,134 262 430 126 17 195 5,164 At 31 December 2016 2,341 337 419 144 13 188 3,442 At 31 December 2017 2,030 389 309 101 6 129 2,964 Goodwill Other intangible assets The goodwill carrying value of 2,030m relates to acquisitions Other intangibles acquired include content, technology and completed after 1 January 1998.
Prior to 1 January 1998 all software rights.
goodwill was written off to reserves on the date of acquisition.
Intangible assets are valued separately for each acquisition and For acquisitions completed between 1 January 1998 and the primary method of valuation used is the discounted cash 31 December 2002, no value was ascribed to intangibles other flow method.
The majority of acquired intangibles are amortised than goodwill which was amortised over a period of up to 20 years.
using an amortisation profile based on the projected cash flows On adoption of IFRS on 1 January 2003, the Group chose not to underlying the acquisition date valuation of the intangible asset, restate the goodwill balance and at that date the balance was frozen which generally results in a larger proportion of amortisation being i. e. amortisation ceased.
If goodwill had been restated, then a recognised in the early years of the assets life.
The Group keeps significant value would have been ascribed to other intangible the expected pattern of consumption under review.
assets, which would be subject to amortisation, and the carrying value of goodwill would be significantly lower.
For acquisitions Amortisation of 17m 2016: 17m is included in the income completed after 1 January 2003, value has been ascribed to other statement in cost of goods sold and 206m 2016: 252m in intangible assets which are amortised.
146 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11.
Intangible assets continued Other intangible assets continued The range of useful economic lives for each major class of intangible asset excluding goodwill and software is shown below: 2017 Class of intangible asset Useful economic life Acquired customer lists, contracts and relationships 3-20 years Acquired trademarks and brands 2-20 years Acquired publishing rights 5-20 years Other intangibles acquired 2-20 years The expected amortisation profile of acquired intangible assets is shown below: 2017 One to Six to More than All figures in millions five years ten years ten years Total Class of intangible asset Acquired customer lists, contracts and relationships 215 75 19 309 Acquired trademarks and brands 56 31 14 101 Acquired publishing rights 5 1 6 Other intangibles acquired 97 32 129 Impairment tests for cash-generating units CGUs containing goodwill Impairment tests have been carried out where appropriate as described below.
Goodwill was allocated to CGUs, or an aggregation of CGUs, where goodwill could not be reasonably allocated to individual business units.
Impairment reviews were conducted on these CGUs.
The recoverable amount for each unit exceeds its carrying value therefore there is no impairment in 2017.
The carrying value of the goodwill in each of the CGUs is summarised below: All figures in millions 2017 2016 North America 1,013 1,295 Core 641 633 Growth includes Brazil, China, India and South Africa Pearson VUE 376 413 Total 2,030 2,341 The recoverable amount of each aggregated CGU is based on fair value less costs of disposal.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment.
Other than goodwill there are no intangible assets with indefinite lives.
The goodwill is generally denominated in the currency of the relevant cash flows and therefore the impairment review is not materially sensitive to exchange rate fluctuations.
Section 5 Financial statements 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11.
Intangible assets continued Operating profits Operating profits are forecast based on historical Key assumptions experience of operating margins, adjusted for the impact of changes For the purpose of estimating the fair value less costs of disposal to product costs and cost-saving initiatives, including the impact of of the CGUs, management has used an income approach based on the implementation of our cost efficiency programme.
The calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering Cash conversion Cash conversion is the ratio of operating cash a five-year period, managements best estimate about future flow to operating profit.
Management forecasts cash conversion developments and market assumptions.
The fair value less costs rates based on historical experience.
of disposal measurement is categorised as Level 3 on the fair value Sensitivities hierarchy.
The key assumptions used by management in the fair value less costs of disposal calculations were: The Groups impairment review is sensitive to a change in assumptions used, most notably the discount rates and the Discount rates The discount rate is based on the risk-free rate perpetuity growth rates.
for government bonds, adjusted for a risk premium to reflect the increased risk in investing in equities.
The risk premium adjustment The carrying value of goodwill in the Growth market CGUs was is assessed for each specific CGU.
The average post-tax discount written down to nil in 2015. rates range from 8.4% to 14.3%.
Discount rates are lower for those A 0.1% increase in discount rates would cause the fair value businesses which operate in more mature markets with low less costs of disposal of the North America CGU to reduce inflation and higher for those operating in emerging markets by 50m, the Core GGU by 17m and the VUE CGU by 21m.
A 0.1% reduction in perpetuity growth rates would cause the fair Perpetuity growth rates A perpetuity growth rate of 2.0% was value less costs of disposal of the North America CGU to reduce used for cash flows subsequent to the approved budget period for by 39m, the Core CGU by 14m and the VUE CGU by 17m.
CGUs operating in mature markets.
This perpetuity growth rate is a conservative rate and is considered to be lower than the long-term The Core CGU is highly sensitive to any reductions in short-term historical growth rates of the underlying territories in which the cash flows, whether driven by lower sales growth, lower operating CGU operates and the long-term growth rate prospects of the profits or lower cash conversion.
A 5% reduction in total annual sectors in which the CGU operates.
CGU growth rates between operating profits, spread evenly across all CGUs, would give rise to 3.0% and 6.9% were used for cash flows subsequent to the an impairment of 66m in the Core CGU.
An increase in discount approved budget period for CGUs operating in emerging markets rates or a reduction in perpetuity growth rates would also give rise with high inflation.
These growth rates are also below the long-term to an impairment in the Core CGU.
The North America CGU is no historical growth rates in these markets.
longer considered to be highly sensitive to changes in impairment assumptions, with increased headroom when compared to 2016.
The key assumptions used by management in setting the financial budgets for the initial five-year period were as follows: 2016 impairment tests At the end of 2016, following trading in the final quarter of the year, Forecast sales growth rates Forecast sales growth rates are it became clear that the underlying issues in the US higher education based on past experience adjusted for the strategic direction and courseware business market were more severe than anticipated.
near-term investment priorities within each CGU.
Key assumptions These issues related to declining student enrolments, changes in include growth in Online Program Management, Online Blended buying patterns of students and correction of inventory levels by Learning and Professional Certification, stabilisation in UK distributors and bookshops.
As a result, in January 2017, strategic Qualifications and US Assessments, and ongoing pressures in plans and estimates for future cash flows were revised and we the US higher education courseware market.
The five-year sales determined during the goodwill impairment review that the fair forecasts use average nominal growth rates between 3% and 6% value less costs of disposal of the North America CGU no longer for mature markets and between 5% and 14% for emerging supported the carrying value of this goodwill and as a consequence markets with high inflation.
148 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 12.
Investments in joint ventures and associates The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Associates 395 1,245 Joint ventures 3 2 Total 398 1,247 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Associates 77 98 Joint ventures 1 1 Total 78 97 Investment in associates The Group has the following material associates: Principal place Ownership Nature of Measurement of business interest relationship method Penguin Random House Ltd UK Global 25% See below Equity Penguin Random House LLC US 25% See below Equity On 1 July 2013, Penguin Random House was formed, upon the The shareholder agreement includes protective rights for completion of an agreement between Pearson and Bertelsmann Pearson as the minority shareholder, including rights to dividends.
to merge their respective trade publishing companies, Penguin Management considers ownership percentage, Board composition and Random House, with the parent companies owning 47% and and the additional protective rights, and exercises judgement to 53% of the combined business respectively.
On 5 October 2017, determine that Pearson has significant influence over Penguin Pearson sold a 22% stake in Penguin Random House to Random House and Bertelsmann has the power to direct the Bertelsmann, retaining a 25% share see note 31 for more relevant activities and therefore control.
Following the transaction information on disposal of associates.
Pearson owns its 25% in 2017 the assessment of significant influence has not changed.
interest in Penguin Random House via 25% interests in each of the Penguin Random House does not have a quoted market price.
two entities listed in the table above.
Despite the separate legal structures of the two Penguin Random House entities, Pearson regards Penguin Random House as one combined global business.
Consequently, Pearson discloses Penguin Random House as one single operating segment and presents disclosures related to its interests in Penguin Random House on a combined basis.
Section 5 Financial statements 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 12.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Investment in associates continued The summarised financial information of the material associate is detailed below: 2017 2016 Penguin Penguin Random Random All figures in millions House House Assets Non-current assets 1,048 1,267 Current assets 1,758 1,587 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 859 394 Current liabilities 1,579 1,074 Net assets 368 1,386 Sales 2,693 2,620 Profit for the year 171 209 Other comprehensive expense 60 14 Total comprehensive income 111 195 Dividends received from associate in relation to profits 146 131 Re-capitalisation dividends received from associate 312 The information above reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the associate, adjusted for fair value and similar adjustments.
The tax on Penguin Random House LLC is settled by the partners.
For the purposes of clear and consistent presentation, the tax has been shown in the associate line items in the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet, recording the Groups share of profit after tax consistently for the Penguin Random House associates.
A reconciliation of the summarised financial information to the carrying value of the material associate is shown below: 2017 2016 Penguin Penguin Random Random All figures in millions House House Opening net assets 1,386 1,206 Exchange differences 18 179 Profit for the year 171 209 Other comprehensive expense 60 14 Dividends, net of tax paid 1,167 194 Tax adjustments in relation to disposals 56 Closing net assets 368 1,386 Share of net assets 92 651 Goodwill 296 589 Carrying value of associate 388 1,240 150 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 12.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Investment in associates continued Information on other individually immaterial associates is detailed below: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Profit for the year 7 Total comprehensive income 7 Transactions with material associates The Group has loans to Penguin Random House which are unsecured and interest is calculated based on market rates.
The amount outstanding at 31 December 2017 was 46m 2016: 33m.
The loans are provided under a working capital facility and fluctuate during the year.
The loan outstanding at 31 December 2017 was repaid in its entirety in January 2018.
The Group also has a current asset receivable of 19m 2016: 21m from Penguin Random House and a current liability payable of 3m 2016: nil arising from the provision of services.
Included in other income note 4 is 3m 2016: 4m of service fees.
In addition, the Group will receive a further re-capitalisation dividend of 49m in April 2018, which was triggered by the Groups decision to sell a 22% stake in Penguin Random House in 2017.
Investment in joint ventures Information on joint ventures, all of which are individually immaterial, is detailed below: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Profit loss for the year 1 1 Total comprehensive income expense 1 1 13.
Deferred income tax All figures in millions 2017 2016 Deferred income tax assets 95 451 Deferred income tax liabilities 164 466 Net deferred income tax 69 15 Substantially all of the deferred income tax assets are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities shall be offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets with current income tax liabilities and where the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
At 31 December 2017, the Group has unrecognised deferred income tax assets of 32m 2016: 32m in respect of UK losses, 18m 2016: 18m in respect of US losses and approximately 86m 2016: 95m in respect of losses in other territories.
The UK losses are capital losses.
The US losses relate to state taxes and therefore have expiry periods of between five and 20 years.
Other deferred tax assets of 12m 2016: 9m have not been recognised.
Deferred tax assets of 75m 2016: 95m have been recognised in countries that reported a loss in either the current or preceding year.
The majority arises in Brazil in respect of tax deductible goodwill.
It is considered more likely than not that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to realise these assets.
The recognition of the deferred income tax assets is supported by managements forecasts of the future profitability of the relevant countries.
Section 5 Financial statements 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13.
Deferred income tax continued The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year is as follows: Retirement Trading Returns benefit Deferred Goodwill and All figures in millions losses provisions obligations revenue intangibles Other Total Deferred income tax assets liabilities At 1 January 2016 19 43 9 55 348 44 284 Exchange differences 3 7 10 15 84 27 22 Income statement charge benefit 15 4 50 144 86 261 Disposal through business disposal 3 7 10 Tax benefit in other comprehensive income 40 40 At 31 December 2016 22 35 37 117 295 69 15 Exchange differences 2 3 4 8 19 8 6 Income statement charge benefit 11 6 7 9 118 1 110 Disposal through business disposal 3 3 Tax charge in other comprehensive income 84 5 89 Transfer to assets liabilities classified as held for sale 4 73 3 8 66 At 31 December 2017 9 34 44 27 155 60 69 Other deferred income tax items include temporary differences in respect of share-based payments, provisions, depreciation and royalty advances.
Classification of financial instruments The accounting classification of each class of the Groups financial assets and their carrying values, is as follows: 2017 2016 Amortised Amortised Fair value cost Fair value cost Derivatives Derivatives Total Derivatives Derivatives Total Available held for in hedge Loans and carrying Available held for in hedge Loans and carrying All figures in millions Notes for sale trading relationship receivables value for sale trading relationship receivables value Investments in unlisted securities 15 77 77 65 65 Cash and cash equivalents 17 518 518 1,459 1,459 Cash and cash equivalents within assets classified as held for sale 32 127 127 Marketable securities 8 8 10 10 Derivative financial instruments 16 3 137 140 3 168 171 Trade receivables 22 760 760 982 982 Trade receivables within assets classified as held for sale 22 22 Total financial assets 85 3 137 1,427 1,652 75 3 168 2,441 2,687 The carrying value of the Groups financial assets is equal to, or approximately equal to, the market value.
152 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14.
Classification of financial instruments continued The accounting classification of each class of the Groups financial liabilities, together with their carrying values and market values, is as follows: 2017 2016 Amortised Amortised Fair value cost Fair value cost Derivatives Derivatives Total Total Derivatives Derivatives Total Total held for in hedge Other carrying market held for in hedge Other carrying market All figures in millions Notes trading relationship liabilities value value trading relationship liabilities value value Derivative financial liabilities 16 140 140 140 7 257 264 264 Trade payables 24 265 265 265 333 333 333 Trade payables within liabilities classified as held for sale 20 20 20 Liability to purchase own shares 24 151 151 151 Bank loans and overdrafts 18 15 15 15 39 39 39 Other borrowings due within one year 18 4 4 4 5 5 5 Borrowings due after more than one year 18 1,066 1,066 1,070 2,424 2,424 2,385 Total financial liabilities 140 1,521 1,661 1,665 7 257 2,801 3,065 3,026 Fair value measurement As shown above, the Groups derivative assets and liabilities, unlisted securities and marketable securities are held at fair value.
Financial instruments that are measured subsequently to initial recognition at fair value are grouped into levels 1 to 3, based on the degree to which the fair value is observable, as follows: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The Groups derivative assets valued at 140m 2016: 171m and derivative liabilities valued at 140m 2016: 264m are classified as level 2.
The Groups marketable securities valued at 8m 2016: 10m are classified as level 2.
The Groups investments in unlisted securities are valued at 77m 2016: 65m and are classified as level 3.
The following table analyses the movements in level 3 fair value remeasurements: 2017 2016 Investments Investments in unlisted in unlisted All figures in millions securities securities At beginning of year 65 143 Exchange differences 4 8 Acquisition of investments 3 6 Fair value movements 13 Disposal of investments 92 At end of year 77 65 The fair value of the investments in unlisted securities is determined by reference to the financial performance of the underlying asset, recent funding rounds and amounts realised on the sale of similar assets.
Section 5 Financial statements 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 15.
Other financial assets All figures in millions 2017 2016 At beginning of year 65 143 Exchange differences 4 8 Acquisition of investments 3 6 Fair value movements 13 Disposal of investments 92 At end of year 77 65 Other financial assets comprise unlisted securities of 77m 2016: 65m.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups approach to the management of financial risks is set out in note 19.
The Groups outstanding derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2017 2016 Gross notional Gross notional All figures in millions amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Interest rate derivatives in a fair value hedge relationship 799 23 2,157 68 4 Interest rate derivatives not in a hedge relationship 429 3 1,187 3 7 Cross-currency rate derivatives in a hedge relationship 1,522 114 140 1,622 100 253 Total 2,750 140 140 4,966 171 264 Analysed as expiring: In less than one year 162 Later than one year and not later than five years 1,638 65 95 2,776 86 157 Later than five years 1,112 75 45 2,028 85 107 Total 2,750 140 140 4,966 171 264 The Group has issued both euro and US dollar fixed rate debt.
At the end of 2017, the currency split of the mark-to-market values The fixed rate euro debt is converted to either a fixed or floating of rate derivatives, including the exchange of principal on cross rate US dollar exposure using interest rate and cross-currency currency rate derivatives, was US dollar 869 m, sterling 12m swaps.
The Groups remaining fixed rate US dollar debt is held as and euro 857m 2016: US dollar 1,051 m, sterling 19m and fixed rate instruments.
The Group receives interest under its euro debt related swap The Groups portfolio of rate derivatives is diversified by maturity, contracts to match the interest on the bonds ranging from a receipt counterparty and type.
Natural offsets between transactions of 1.375% on its euro 2025 notes to 1.875% on its euro 2021 notes within the portfolio and the designation of certain derivatives as and, in turn, pays US dollar interest at rates ranging between hedges significantly reduce the risk of income statement volatility.
The sensitivity of the portfolio to changes in market rates is set out in note 19.
Interest rate swaps are then used to fix an element of the interest charge, in line with the Groups interest rate hedging policy, which requires a proportion of the Groups gross debt to be fixed in line with the Groups hedging policy.
During 2017 Pearson executed a number of floating interest rate swaps to match the maturity of the 2021 and 2025 euro bonds mitigating the exposure to interest rate increases.
The all-in rates including the Libor spread that the Group pays are between 2.78% and 3.58%.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had contracts to fix $579m of debt over the next 12 months and $331m of outstanding fixed rate bonds bringing the total fixed rate debt to $910m.
154 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16.
Derivative financial instruments continued Derivative financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting arrangements are as follows: 2017 2016 Gross Gross Net derivative Gross Gross Net derivative derivative derivative assets derivative derivative assets All figures in millions assets liabilities liabilities assets liabilities liabilities Counterparties in an asset position 103 78 25 30 11 19 Counterparties in a liability position 37 62 25 141 253 112 Total as presented in the balance sheet 140 140 171 264 93 All of the Groups derivative financial instruments are subject to In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and enforceable netting arrangements with individual counterparties, Measurement, the Group has reviewed all of its material contracts allowing net settlement in the event of default of either party.
Offset for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately arrangements in respect of cash balances are described in note 17. accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements, and has concluded that there are no material embedded derivatives.
Counterparty exposure from all derivatives is managed, together with that from deposits and bank account balances, within credit limits that reflect published credit ratings and by reference to other market measures e. g. market prices for credit default swaps to ensure that there is no significant risk to any one counterparty.
Cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts All figures in millions 2017 2016 Cash at bank and in hand 361 570 Short-term bank deposits 157 889 518 1,459 Cash at bank and in hand within assets classified as held for sale 127 645 1,459 Short-term bank deposits are invested with banks and earn interest at the prevailing short-term deposit rates.
At the end of 2017, a significant proportion of the renminbi cash relates to assets held for sale.
Cash and cash equivalents have fair values that approximate to their carrying value due to their short-term nature.
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purpose of the cash flow statement: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 518 1,459 Cash and cash equivalents within assets classified as held for sale 127 Bank overdrafts 15 35 630 1,424 The Group has certain cash pooling arrangements in US dollars, sterling, euro and Canadian dollars where both the company and the bank have a legal right of offset.
At 31 December 2017, the offsetting amounts are presented gross in the balance sheet.
Offset arrangements in respect of derivatives are shown in note 16.
Section 5 Financial statements 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 18.
Financial liabilities borrowings The Groups current and non-current borrowings are as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Non-current 6.25% Global dollar bonds 2018 nominal amount $550m 469 4.625% US dollar notes 2018 nominal amount $300m 254 1.875% euro notes 2021 nominal amount 500m 463 453 3.75% US dollar notes 2022 nominal amount $117m: 2016: nominal amount $500m 85 407 3.25% US dollar notes 2023 nominal amount $94m: 2016: nominal amount $500m 69 402 1.375% euro notes 2025 nominal amount 500m 445 435 Finance lease liabilities 4 4 1,066 2,424 Current Due within one year or on-demand: Bank loans and overdrafts 15 39 Finance lease liabilities 4 5 19 44 Total borrowings 1,085 2,468 Included in the non-current borrowings above is 10m of accrued interest 2016: 18m.
Included in the current borrowings above is nil of accrued interest 2016: nil.
The maturity of the Groups non-current borrowing is as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Between one and two years 3 726 Between two and five years 549 454 Over five years 514 1,244 1,066 2,424 The carrying amounts and market values of borrowings are as follows: 2017 2016 Effective Carrying Market Effective Carrying Market All figures in millions interest rate value value interest rate value value Bank loans and overdrafts n a 15 15 n a 39 39 6.25% Global dollar bonds 2018 n a 6.46% 469 468 4.625% US dollar notes 2018 n a 4.69% 254 250 1.875% euro notes 2021 2.04% 463 467 2.04% 453 454 3.75% US dollar notes 2022 3.94% 85 87 3.94% 407 396 3.25% US dollar notes 2023 3.36% 69 67 3.36% 402 381 1.375% euro notes 2025 1.44% 445 445 1.44% 435 432 Finance lease liabilities n a 8 8 n a 9 9 1,085 1,089 2,468 2,429 The market values stated above are based on clean market prices at the year end or, where these are not available, on the quoted market prices of comparable debt issued by other companies.
The effective interest rates above relate to the underlying debt instruments.
156 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 18.
Financial liabilities borrowings continued The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings before the effect of derivatives see notes 16 and 19 for further information on the impact of derivatives are denominated in the following currencies: All figures in millions 2017 2016 US dollar 172 1,559 Sterling 1 13 Euro 911 892 Other 1 4 1,085 2,468 The Group has $1.75bn 1.3bn of undrawn capacity on its committed borrowing facilities as at 31 December 2017 2016: $1.75bn 1.4bn undrawn.
In addition, there are a number of short-term facilities that are utilised in the normal course of business.
All of the Groups borrowings are unsecured.
In respect of finance lease obligations, the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
The maturity of the Groups finance lease obligations is as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments Not later than one year 4 5 Later than one year and not later than two years 3 3 Later than two years and not later than three years 1 1 Later than three years and not later than four years Later than four years and not later than five years Later than five years Future finance charges on finance leases Present value of finance lease liabilities 8 9 The present value of the Groups finance lease obligations is as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Not later than one year 4 5 Later than one year and not later than five years 4 4 Later than five years 8 9 The carrying amounts of the Groups lease obligations approximate their fair value.
Financial risk management The Groups approach to the management of financial risks together The treasury function is permitted to use derivatives for risk with sensitivity analyses of its financial instruments is set out below.
management purposes which may include interest rate swaps, rate caps and collars, currency rate swaps and forward foreign Treasury policy exchange contracts, of which interest rate swaps and forward Pearsons treasury function has primary responsibility for managing foreign exchange swaps are the most commonly used.
certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Groups treasury policies are approved by the Board of Directors annually and the Audit Committee receives regular reports on the Groups treasury activities, policies and procedures.
The Groups treasury function is not run as a profit centre and does not enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.
Section 5 Financial statements 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 19.
Financial risk management continued Capital risk The Groups primary objective when managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and retain financial flexibility by maintaining a strong balance sheet.
The Group aims to maintain net debt at a level less than 1.5 times EBITDA, which is consistent with a solid investment grade rating assuming no material deterioration in trading performance and provides comfortable headroom against covenants.
This should permit the business to invest in organic growth.
Shareholder returns are made through a sustainable and progressive dividend policy.
Any surplus cash is returned to shareholders via share buybacks or special dividends.
The Group is currently rated BBB negative outlook with Standard and Poors and Baa2 negative outlook with Moodys.
Net debt The Groups net debt position is set out below: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 645 1,459 Marketable securities 8 10 Derivative financial instruments 93 Bank loans and overdrafts 15 39 Bonds 1,062 2,420 Finance lease liabilities 8 9 Net debt 432 1,092 Interest and foreign exchange rate management Overseas profits are converted to sterling to satisfy sterling cash outflows such as dividends at the prevailing spot rate at the time The Groups principal currency exposure is to the US dollar which of the transaction.
To the extent the Group has sufficient sterling, represents more than 60% of the Groups sales.
US dollars may be held as dollar cash to provide a natural offset The Groups long-term debt is primarily held in US dollars to provide to the Groups debt or to satisfy future US dollar cash outflows.
a natural hedge of this exposure, which is achieved through issued The Group does not have significant cross border foreign exchange US dollar debt or by converting euro debt to US dollars using transactional exposures.
As at 31 December 2017, the sensitivity of the carrying value of the As at 31 December 2017, 674m of the Groups debt is held at Groups financial instruments to fluctuations in interest rates and fixed rates 2016: 650m, with 411m held at floating rates exchange rates is as follows: 2016: 1,818m, partially offset by US dollar cash balances which attract floating rate interest.
As at 31 December 2017, a 1% movement in US dollar interest rates for one year would result in a 2m movement in the interest charge 2016: 13m.
Impact of 1% Impact of 1% Impact of 10% Impact of 10% Carrying increase in decrease in strengthening weakening in All figures in millions value interest rates interest rates in sterling sterling Investments in unlisted securities 77 6 7 Cash and cash equivalents 645 54 66 Marketable securities 8 Derivative financial instruments 26 26 1 1 Bonds 1,062 45 48 97 118 Other borrowings 23 2 2 Liability to purchase own shares 151 Other net financial assets 497 41 50 Total financial instruments 9 19 22 1 2 The table shows the sensitivities of the fair values of each class of financial instruments to an isolated change in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
Other net financial assets comprises trade receivables less trade payables.
A significant proportion of the movements shown above would impact equity rather than the income statement due to the location and functional currency of the entities in which they arise and the availability of net investment hedging.
158 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 19.
Financial risk management continued At 31 December 2017, the Group had cash of 0.6bn and an Interest and foreign exchange rate management continued undrawn US dollar denominated revolving credit facility due 2021 The Groups income statement is reported at average rates for the of $1.75bn 1.3bn.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had cash of year while the balance sheet is translated at the year-end closing 1.5bn and an undrawn US dollar denominated revolving credit rate.
Differences between these rates can distort ratio calculations facility due 2021 of $1.75bn 1.4bn.
such as debt to EBITDA and interest cover.
Adjusted operating profit translated at year-end closing rates would be 22m lower than the The $1.75bn facility contains interest cover and leverage covenants reported figure of 576m at 554m 2016: 55m higher if translated which the Group has complied with for the year ended at the year-end 2016 rate instead of the 2016 average rate at 690m 31 December 2017. compared with a reported figure of 635m.
EBITDA translated at At the end of 2017, the currency split of the Groups trade payables year-end closing rates would be 25m lower than the reported was US dollar 137m, sterling 58m and other currencies 90m figure of 738m at 713m 2016: 63m higher if translated at the 2016: US dollar 164m, sterling 67m and other currencies 102m.
year-end 2016 rate instead of the 2016 average rate, at 848m, Trade payables are all due within one year 2016: all due within compared with a reported figure of 785m.
Liquidity and re-financing risk management The following table analyses the Groups bonds and derivative The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on required to fund its activities.
This involves preparing a prudent the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual cash flow forecast for the next three to five years, determining maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the the level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest and as for shareholder returns and repayments of maturing debt, and such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outflows.
Analysed by maturity Analysed by currency Later than one year but Less than less than five Five years All figures in millions one year years or more Total USD GBP Other Total At 31 December 2017 Bonds 20 601 533 1,154 184 970 1,154 Rate derivatives inflows 38 975 684 1,697 53 751 893 1,697 Rate derivatives outflows 48 1,060 667 1,775 1,003 751 21 1,775 Total 30 686 516 1,232 1,134 98 1,232 At 31 December 2016 Bonds 82 1,308 1,292 2,682 1,732 950 2,682 Rate derivatives inflows 103 1,086 867 2,056 239 838 979 2,056 Rate derivatives outflows 82 1,202 891 2,175 1,308 838 29 2,175 Total 61 1,424 1,316 2,801 2,801 2,801 Financial counterparty risk management Counterparty credit limits, which take published credit rating and other factors into account, are set to cover the Groups total aggregate exposure to a single financial institution.
The limits applicable to published credit rating bands are approved by the Chief Financial Officer within guidelines approved by the board.
Exposures and limits applicable to each financial institution are reviewed on a regular basis.
Cash deposits and derivative transactions are made with approved counterparties up to pre-agreed limits.
To manage counterparty risk associated with cash and cash equivalents, the Group uses a mixture of money market funds as well as bank deposits.
As at 31 December 2017, 58% of cash and cash equivalents was held with investment grade bank counterparties, 38% with AAA money market funds and 4% held with non-investment grade bank counterparties.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had a net exposure of 24m with investment grade counterparties for derivative transactions.
Section 5 Financial statements 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20.
Intangible assets pre-publication All figures in millions 2017 2016 Cost At beginning of year 2,417 2,201 Exchange differences 168 380 Additions 362 395 Disposal through business disposal 1 8 Disposals 248 565 Transfer from intangible assets 14 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 508 At end of year 1,854 2,417 Amortisation At beginning of year 1,393 1,360 Exchange differences 109 250 Charge for the year 338 350 Disposal through business disposal 4 Disposals 248 565 Transfer from intangible assets 2 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 261 At end of year 1,113 1,393 Carrying amounts At end of year 741 1,024 Included in the above are pre-publication assets amounting to 504m 2016: 694m which will be realised in more than one year.
Amortisation is included in the income statement in cost of goods sold.
Inventories All figures in millions 2017 2016 Raw materials 4 5 Work in progress 2 6 Finished goods 142 224 148 235 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the income statement in cost of goods sold amounted to 324m 2016: 340m.
In 2017, 38m 2016: 48m of inventory provisions was charged in the income statement.
None of the inventory is pledged as security.
160 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 22.
Trade and other receivables All figures in millions 2017 2016 Current Trade receivables 739 961 Royalty advances 8 22 Prepayments 82 124 Accrued income 1 15 Other receivables 280 235 1,110 1,357 Non-current Trade receivables 21 21 Royalty advances 20 10 Prepayments 15 13 Accrued income 10 31 Other receivables 37 29 103 104 The carrying value of the Groups trade and other receivables approximates its fair value.
Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts and anticipated future sales returns.
The movements in the provision for bad and doubtful debts are as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 At beginning of year 112 64 Exchange differences 7 17 Income statement movements 38 53 Utilised 21 22 Disposal through business disposal 1 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 5 At end of year 116 112 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups large number of customers, who are internationally dispersed.
The ageing of the Groups trade receivables is as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Within due date 661 812 Up to three months past due date 187 232 Three to six months past due date 48 55 Six to nine months past due date 18 21 Nine to 12 months past due date 13 14 More than 12 months past due date 3 7 Total trade receivables 930 1,141 Less: provision for sales returns 170 159 Net trade receivables 760 982 The Group reviews its bad debt provision at least twice a year following a detailed review of receivable balances and historical payment profiles.
Management believes all the remaining receivable balances are fully recoverable.
Section 5 Financial statements 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 23.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Deferred Disposals Legal All figures in millions consideration Property and closures and other Total At 1 January 2017 56 4 10 36 106 Exchange differences 5 2 7 Charged to income statement 4 4 Released to income statement 7 7 Utilised 6 2 8 16 Disposal through business disposal 1 3 2 At 31 December 2017 45 3 11 21 80 Analysis of provisions: 2017 Deferred Disposals Legal All figures in millions consideration Property and closures and other Total Current 5 1 11 8 25 Non-current 40 2 13 55 45 3 11 21 80 2016 Current 6 1 8 12 27 Non-current 50 3 2 24 79 56 4 10 36 106 Deferred consideration primarily relates to the formation of a venture in a North America business in 2011.
The provision will be utilised over a number of years as payments are based on a royalty rate.
Disposals and closures include liabilities related to the disposal of Penguin with the provisions utilised as the disposals and closures are completed.
Legal and other includes legal claims, contract disputes and potential contract losses with the provisions utilised as the cases are settled.
Restructuring provisions were not material in either 2017 or 2016.
Trade and other liabilities All figures in millions 2017 2016 Trade payables 265 333 Social security and other taxes 21 25 Accruals 447 507 Deferred income 322 883 Interest payable 45 31 Liability to purchase own shares 151 Other liabilities 224 272 1,475 2,051 Less: non-current portion Accruals 26 17 Deferred income 35 319 Other liabilities 72 86 133 422 Current portion 1,342 1,629 The carrying value of the Groups trade and other liabilities approximates its fair value.
The deferred income balance comprises advance payments in assessment, testing and training businesses: subscription income in school and college businesses: and obligations to deliver digital content in future periods.
The liability to purchase own shares relates to a liability arising under a buyback agreement for the purchase of the companys own shares see note 27.
162 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations Background to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans throughout the world.
The level of benefits depends on the length of service and final pensionable pay.
The UK Group plan is funded with benefit The largest plan is the Pearson Group Pension Plan UK Group plan payments from trustee-administered funds.
The UK Group plan in the UK, which is sectionalised to provide both defined benefit and is administered in accordance with the Trust Deed and Rules in defined contribution pension benefits.
The defined benefit section the interests of its beneficiaries by Pearson Group Pension was closed to new members from 1 November 2006.
contribution section, opened in 2003, is open to new and existing employees.
Finally, there is a separate section within the UK Group At 31 December 2017, the UK Group plan had approximately plan set up for auto-enrolment.
The defined benefit section of the 24,000 members, analysed in the following table: UK Group plan is a final salary pension plan which provides benefits All figures in % Active Deferred Pensioners Total Defined benefit 1 26 35 62 Defined contribution 8 30 38 Total 9 56 35 100 The other major defined benefit plans are based in the US.
The defined contribution section of the UK Group plan operates a These are also final salary pension plans which provide benefits Reference Scheme Test first pension underpin for its members.
to members in the form of a guaranteed pension payable for life, Where a members fund value is insufficient to purchase the first with the level of benefits dependent on length of service and pension upon retirement, the UK Group plan is liable for the final pensionable pay.
The majority of the US plans are funded.
shortfall to cover the members first pension.
During the year, the UK Group plan revised its approach to securing the first The Group also has several post-retirement medical benefit plans underpin by converting a members fund value into a pension in PRMBs, principally in the US.
PRMBs are unfunded but are the UK Group plan rather than purchasing an annuity with an accounted for and valued similarly to defined benefit pension plans.
A liability of 32m 2016: 181m in respect of the underpin is included in the UK Group plans defined benefit obligation, The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks, calculated as the present value of projected payments less the such as life expectancy, inflation risks, and investment risk including fund value.
The UK Group plans conversion factors are lower than asset volatility and changes in bond yields.
The Group is not exposed the respective insurer annuity values and this has driven a reduction to any unusual, entity-specific or plan-specific risks.
in the underpin liability, resulting in an actuarial gain through other comprehensive income and an increase in the surplus at 31 December 2017.
From 1 January 2018, members who have sufficient funds to purchase an first pension will be able to convert their fund value into a pension in the UK Group plan as an alternative to purchasing an annuity with an insurer.
The Group does not recognise the assets and liabilities for members of the defined contribution section of the UK Group plan whose fund values are expected to be sufficient to purchase an first pension without assistance from the UK Group plan.
The defined contribution section of the UK Group plan had gross assets of 442m at 31 December 2017.
Section 5 Financial statements 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Assumptions The principal assumptions used for the UK Group plan and the US PRMB are shown below.
Weighted average assumptions have been shown for the other plans, which primarily relate to US pension plans.
2017 2016 UK Group Other UK Group Other All figures in % plan plans PRMB plan plans PRMB Inflation 3.2 1.6 1.5 3.3 1.6 1.5 Rate used to discount plan liabilities 2.5 3.0 3.0 2.5 3.8 3.9 Expected rate of increase in salaries 3.7 3.0 3.0 3.8 3.0 3.0 Expected rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.1 to 5.1 2.2 to 5.1 Initial rate of increase in healthcare rate 6.5 6.8 Ultimate rate of increase in healthcare rate 5.0 5.0 The UK discount rate is based on corporate bond yields adjusted to reflect the duration of liabilities.
In 2017, the Group revised the portfolio of corporate bonds used to exclude bonds with an implicit government guarantee.
Under the previous methodology, the 2017 UK discount rate would have been lower by around 0.1%.
The US discount rate is set by reference to a US bond portfolio matching model.
The inflation rate for the UK Group plan of 3.2% reflects the RPI rate.
In line with changes to legislation in 2010, certain benefits have been calculated with reference to CPI as the inflationary measure and in these instances a rate of 2.2% has been used.
The expected rate of increase in salaries has been set at 3.7% for 2017 with a short-term assumption of 2.0% for three years.
For the UK plan, the mortality base table assumptions have been updated and are derived from the SAPS S2 for males and females, adjusted to reflect the observed experience of the plan, with CMI model improvement factors.
A 1.5% long-term rate improvement on the CMI model is applied for both males and females.
For the US plans, the mortality table RP 2017 and 2017 improvement scale MP 2017 with generational projection for male and female annuitants has been adopted.
Using the above tables, the remaining average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date for the UK Group plan and US plans is as follows: UK US All figures in years 2017 2016 2017 2016 Male 23.6 23.5 20.8 21.2 Female 25.7 25.6 22.8 23.2 The remaining average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date, for the UK and US Group plans is as follows: UK US All figures in years 2017 2016 2017 2016 Male 25.7 25.5 22.5 22.9 Female 27.9 27.8 24.4 24.9 Although the Group anticipates that plan surpluses will be utilised during the life of the plan to address member benefits, the Group recognises its pension surplus in full in respect of the UK Group plan on the basis that it is managements judgement that there are no substantive restrictions on the return of residual plan assets in the event of a winding up of the plan after all member obligations have been met.
164 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Financial statement information The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2017 Defined UK Group benefit Defined All figures in millions plan other Sub-total contribution PRMB Total Current service cost 8 1 9 57 1 65 Administration expenses 9 1 10 10 Total operating expense 17 2 19 57 1 75 Interest on plan assets 84 5 89 89 Interest on plan liabilities 77 7 84 2 86 Net finance income expense 7 2 5 2 3 Net income statement charge 10 4 14 57 1 72 2016 Defined UK Group benefit Defined All figures in millions plan other Sub-total contribution PRMB Total Current service cost 8 2 10 67 77 Curtailments 2 2 Administration expenses 6 6 6 Total operating expense 14 2 16 67 2 81 Interest on plan assets 104 6 110 110 Interest on plan liabilities 89 7 96 3 99 Net finance income expense 15 1 14 3 11 Net income statement charge 1 3 2 67 1 70 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2017 2016 Other Other UK Group Other funded unfunded UK Group Other funded unfunded All figures in millions plan plans plans Total plan plans plans Total Fair value of plan assets 3,337 155 3,492 3,339 158 3,497 Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,792 161 20 2,973 3,181 183 22 3,386 Net pension asset liability 545 6 20 519 158 25 22 111 Other post-retirement medical benefit obligation 67 77 Other pension accruals 11 15 Net retirement benefit asset 441 19 Analysed as: Retirement benefit assets 545 158 Retirement benefit obligations 104 139 Section 5 Financial statements 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Financial statement information continued The following gains losses have been recognised in other comprehensive income: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Amounts recognised for defined benefit plans 175 277 Amounts recognised for post-retirement medical benefit plans 9 Total recognised in year 175 268 The fair value of plan assets comprises the following: 2017 2016 UK Group Other UK Group Other All figures in % plan funded plans Total plan funded plans Total Insurance 29 29 Equities 1 1 2 2 1 3 Bonds 3 3 9 1 10 Property 8 8 8 8 Pooled asset investment funds 44 44 67 67 Other 14 14 12 12 The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, or any property occupied by the Group.
The table below further disaggregates the UK Group plan assets into additional categories and those assets which have a quoted market price in an active market and those that do not: 2017 2016 Quoted No quoted Quoted No quoted All figures in % market price market price market price market price Insurance 29 Non-UK equities 2 3 Fixed-interest securities 3 10 Property 8 8 Pooled asset investment funds 44 67 Other 14 12 Total 76 24 77 23 The liquidity profile of the UK Group plan assets is as follows: All figures in % 2017 2016 Liquid call 1 month 50 75 Less liquid call 13 months Illiquid call 3 months 50 25 166 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Financial statement information continued Changes in the values of plan assets and liabilities of the retirement benefit plans are as follows: 2017 2016 UK Group Other UK Group Other All figures in millions plan plans Total plan plans Total Fair value of plan assets Opening fair value of plan assets 3,339 158 3,497 2,803 135 2,938 Exchange differences 8 8 24 24 Interest on plan assets 84 5 89 104 6 110 Return on plan assets excluding interest 140 10 130 445 8 453 Contributions by employer 234 8 242 99 2 101 Benefits paid 188 18 206 112 17 129 Other 8 8 Closing fair value of plan assets 3,337 155 3,492 3,339 158 3,497 Present value of defined benefit obligation Opening defined benefit obligation 3,181 205 3,386 2,466 175 2,641 Exchange differences 13 13 32 32 Current service cost 8 1 9 8 2 10 Administration expenses 9 1 10 6 6 Interest on plan liabilities 77 7 84 89 7 96 Actuarial gains losses experience 126 6 132 12 12 Actuarial gains losses demographic 133 1 134 47 2 45 Actuarial gains losses financial 44 5 39 689 8 697 Contributions by employee Other 8 8 Benefits paid 188 18 206 112 17 129 Closing defined benefit obligation 2,792 181 2,973 3,181 205 3,386 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 16.9 years for the UK and 8.1 years for the US.
Section 5 Financial statements 167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Financial statement information continued Changes in the value of the US PRMB are as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Opening defined benefit obligation 77 76 Exchange differences 5 14 Current service cost 1 Curtailments 2 Interest on plan liabilities 2 3 Actuarial gains losses experience 1 8 Actuarial gains losses demographic 1 2 Actuarial gains losses financial 2 1 Benefits paid 6 5 Closing defined benefit obligation 67 77 Funding The UK Group plan is self-administered with the plans assets being Assets of the plan are divided into two elements: matching assets, held independently of the Group in trust.
The trustee of the plan which are assets that produce cash flows that can be expected to is required to act in the best interest of the plans beneficiaries.
match the cash flows for a proportion of the membership, and The most recent triennial actuarial valuation for funding purposes include a liability-driven investment mandate UK bonds, interest was completed as at 1 January 2015 and this valuation revealed rate inflation swaps and other derivative instruments, inflationa technical provisions funding shortfall of 27m which was linked property and infrastructure: and return seeking assets, eliminated by contributions paid during 2015. which are assets invested with a longer-term horizon to generate the returns needed to provide the remaining expected cash flows As a consequence of the disposal of the FT Group, an agreement for the beneficiaries, and include diversified growth funds, property has been made between Pearson and the plan trustee to accelerate and alternative asset classes.
The plans long-term investment the funding of the plan.
As a result, the plan is expected to be fully strategy allocates 85% to matching assets and 15% to return funded on a self-sufficiency basis by 2019, inclusive of 202m paid seeking assets.
in 2017 in relation to the Penguin Random House merger in 2013.
This is a much higher level of funding than technical provisions.
In October 2017, the UK Group plan purchased pensioner buy-in As a result, the plan expects to be able to provide benefits in policies with both Aviva and Legal & General totalling 1.2bn.
accordance with the plan rules with a very low level of reliance The buy-ins cover around a third of its total liabilities and are split on future funding from Pearson.
A commitment has also been equally between the two insurers.
The buy-ins transfer significant made to maintain that level of funding in future years.
longevity risk to Aviva and Legal & General, reducing the pension risks being underwritten by the Group and providing additional security for members.
Regular contributions to the plan in respect of the defined benefit sections are estimated to be 6m for 2018.
Sensitivities The effect of a one percentage point increase and decrease in the discount rate on the defined benefit obligation and the total pension expense is as follows: 2017 All figures in millions 1% increase 1% decrease Effect: Decrease increase in defined benefit obligation UK Group plan 423 575 Decrease increase in defined benefit obligation US plan 14 16 168 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25.
Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Sensitivities continued The effect of members living one year more or one year less on the defined benefit obligation is as follows: 2017 One year One year All figures in millions increase decrease Effect: Increase decrease in defined benefit obligation UK Group plan 145 152 Increase decrease in defined benefit obligation US plan 8 9 The effect of a half percentage point increase and decrease in the inflation rate is as follows: 2017 All figures in millions 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease Effect: Increase decrease in defined benefit obligation UK Group plan 144 132 Increase decrease in defined benefit obligation US plan The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant, although in practice this is unlikely to occur and changes in some assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating these sensitivities, the same method has been applied to calculate the defined benefit obligation as has been applied when calculating the liability recognised in the balance sheet.
This methodology is the same as prior periods.
Share-based payments The Group recognised the following charges in the income statement in respect of its equity-settled share-based payment plans: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Pearson plans 33 22 The Group operates the following equity-settled employee option Long-Term Incentive Plan The plan was first introduced in 2001 and share plans: and consists of restricted shares.
The vesting of restricted shares is normally dependent on continuing service over a three to Worldwide Save for Shares Plan Since 1994, the Group has operated five-year period, and in the case of Executive Directors and senior a Save-As-You-Earn plan for UK employees.
In 1998, the Group management upon the satisfaction of corporate performance introduced a Worldwide Save for Shares Plan.
Under these plans, targets over a three-year period.
These targets may be based on employees can save a portion of their monthly salary over periods market and or non-market performance criteria.
Restricted shares of three or five years.
At the end of this period, the employee has the awarded to Executive Directors in September 2017, and to Executive option to purchase ordinary shares with the accumulated funds at Directors and senior management in May 2016, vest dependent on a purchase price equal to 80% of the market price prevailing at the relative total shareholder return, return on invested capital and time of the commencement of the employees participation in the earnings per share growth.
Restricted shares awarded to senior plan.
Options that are not exercised within six months of the end management in March 2016 and March 2017 vest dependent on of the savings period lapse unconditionally.
Other restricted shares awarded in 2016 and 2017 vest depending on continuing service over a Employee Stock Purchase Plan In 2000, the Group established an three-year period.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan which allows all employees in the US to save a portion of their monthly salary over six-month periods.
Management Incentive Plan The plan was introduced in 2017 At the end of the period, the employee has the option to purchase combining the Groups Annual Incentive Plan and Long-Term American Depository Receipts ADRs with their accumulated funds Incentive Plan for senior management.
The number of shares to at a purchase price equal to 85% of the lower of the market prices be granted to participants is dependent on Group performance in prevailing at the beginning or end of the period.
the calendar year preceding the date of grant on the same basis as the Annual Incentive Plan.
Subsequently, the shares vest dependent on continuing service over a three-year period, and additionally in the case of Pearson Executive Management upon satisfaction of non market-based performance criteria as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Restricted shares awarded as part of the 2017 Management Incentive Plan will be granted in April 2018.
Section 5 Financial statements 169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26.
Share-based payments continued The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options granted under the Groups plans are as follows: 2017 2016 Number of share Weighted average Number of share Weighted average options exercise price options exercise price 000s 000s Outstanding at beginning of year 2,978 8.14 3,250 9.24 Granted during the year 1,619 5.50 1,544 6.94 Exercised during the year 9 7.00 49 7.07 Forfeited during the year 1,451 8.04 1,695 9.14 Expired during the year 156 9.09 72 8.95 Outstanding at end of year 2,981 6.84 2,978 8.14 Options exercisable at end of year 350 8.18 247 9.06 Options were exercised regularly throughout the year.
The weighted average share price during the year was 6.71 2016: 8.23.
Early exercises arising from redundancy, retirement or death are treated as an acceleration of vesting and the Group therefore recognises in the income statement the amount that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the original vesting period.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have weighted average remaining contractual lives and exercise prices as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted average Weighted average Range of exercise prices Number of contractual life Number of contractual life share options 000s Years share options 000s Years 05 510 2,697 2.52 2,548 2.31 10 284 1.24 430 2.25 2,981 2.40 2,978 2.31 In 2017 and 2016, options were granted under the Worldwide Save for Shares Plan.
The weighted average estimated fair value for the options granted was calculated using a BlackScholes option pricing model.
The weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the BlackScholes model are as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted average Weighted average Fair value 1.24 1.01 Weighted average share price 6.83 7.85 Weighted average exercise price 5.50 6.94 Expected volatility 34.75% 27.38% Expected life 3.7 years 3.7 years Risk-free rate 0.20% 0.58% Expected dividend yield 7.61% 7.49% Forfeiture rate 3.2% 3.2% The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the companys share price over the previous three to seven years depending on the vesting term of the options.
The following shares were granted under restricted share arrangements: 2017 2016 Number of Weighted average fair Number of Weighted average fair shares value shares value 000s 000s Long-Term Incentive Plan 6,453 6.61 6,833 8.24 170 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26.
Share-based payments continued The fair value of shares granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan that vest unconditionally is determined using the share price at the date of grant.
The number of shares expected to vest is adjusted, based on historical experience, to account for potential forfeitures.
Participants under the plan are entitled to dividends during the vesting period and therefore the share price is not discounted.
Restricted shares with a market performance condition were valued by an independent actuary using a Monte Carlo model.
Restricted shares with a non-market performance condition were fair valued based on the share price at the date of grant.
Non-market performance conditions are taken into consideration by adjusting the number of shares expected to vest based on the most likely outcome of the relevant performance criteria.
Share capital and share premium Number of Share Share shares capital premium 000s m m At 1 January 2016 821,068 205 2,590 Issue of ordinary shares share option schemes 1,059 7 At 31 December 2016 822,127 205 2,597 Issue of ordinary shares share option schemes 923 5 Purchase of own shares 20,996 5 At 31 December 2017 802,054 200 2,602 The ordinary shares have a par value of 25p per share 2016: 25p per share.
All issued shares are fully paid.
All shares have the same rights.
The 300m share buyback programme announced in October 2017 was completed on 16 February 2018.
In 2017, the Groups brokers purchased 21m shares at a value of 153m of which 149m had been cancelled at 31 December 2017.
Cash payments of 149m had been made in respect of the purchases with the outstanding 4m settlement made at the beginning of January 2018.
This 4m together with the remaining value of the buyback programme of 147m was recorded as a liability at 31 December 2017 see note 24.
A further 22m shares were purchased under the programme in 2018 see note 37.
The shares bought back are being cancelled and the nominal value of these shares is transferred to a capital redemption reserve.
The nominal value of shares cancelled at 31 December 2017 was 5m.
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt see note 18, cash and cash equivalents see note 17 and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
The Group reviews its capital structure on a regular basis and will balance its overall capital structure through payments of dividends, new share issues as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt in line with the financial risk policies outlined in note 19.
Treasury shares Pearson plc Number of shares 000s m At 1 January 2016 6,705 72 Purchase of treasury shares 3,000 27 Release of treasury shares 1,986 20 At 31 December 2016 7,719 79 Purchase of treasury shares Release of treasury shares 1,725 18 At 31 December 2017 5,994 61 The Group holds Pearson plc shares in trust to satisfy its obligations under its restricted share plans see note 26.
These shares, representing 0.8% 2016: 0.9% of called-up share capital, are treated as treasury shares for accounting purposes and have a par value of 25p per share.
The nominal value of Pearson plc treasury shares amounts to 1.5m 2016: 1.9m.
Dividends on treasury shares are waived.
At 31 December 2017, the market value of Pearson plc treasury shares was 44m 2016: 63m.
Section 5 Financial statements 171 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29.
Other comprehensive income 2017 Attributable to equity holders of the company NonFair value Translation Retained controlling All figures in millions reserve reserve earnings Total interest Total Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Group 158 158 158 Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations associates 104 104 104 Currency translation adjustment disposed 51 51 51 Attributable tax 9 9 9 Fair value gain on other financial assets 13 13 13 Attributable tax 4 4 4 Items that are not reclassified to the income statement Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations Group 175 175 175 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations associates 7 7 7 Attributable tax 42 42 42 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 13 313 145 155 155 2016 Attributable to equity holders of the company NonFair value Translation Retained controlling All figures in millions reserve reserve earnings Total interest Total Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Group 909 909 1 910 Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations associates 3 3 3 Currency translation adjustment disposed Attributable tax 5 5 5 Items that are not reclassified to the income statement Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations Group 268 268 268 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations associates 8 8 8 Attributable tax 58 58 58 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 912 223 689 1 690 172 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30. Business combinations There were no significant acquisitions in 2017 or 2016.
Fair values for the assets and liabilities arising from acquisitions completed in the year are as follows: 2017 2016 Total Total All figures in millions Notes fair value fair value Intangible assets 11 10 Net assets acquired at fair value 10 Goodwill 11 3 Total 13 Satisfied by: Cash 7 Other liabilities 6 Total consideration 13 Goodwill of 3m arising on 2016 acquisitions is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Intangible assets acquired in 2016 have the following useful economic lives: trademarks and brands 15 years, and other acquired intangibles six years.
All figures in millions 2017 2016 Cash flow on acquisitions Cash current year acquisitions 7 Deferred payments for prior year acquisitions and other items 11 7 Acquisition costs and other acquisition liabilities paid 1 Net cash outflow 11 15 31.
Disposals including business closures In August 2017, the Group completed the sale of the test preparation business in China GEDU and in October 2017 the sale of a 22% share in Penguin Random House, retaining a 25% share see note 12.
2017 2016 Penguin Random All figures in millions Notes GEDU House Other Total Total Disposal of subsidiaries and associates Property, plant and equipment 10 7 7 3 Intangible assets 11 2 7 9 Investments in joint ventures and associates 352 352 Net deferred income tax assets 13 1 2 3 10 Intangible assets pre-publication 20 1 1 4 Inventories 1 1 2 Trade and other receivables 16 16 6 Current income tax receivable 5 5 Cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts 13 13 9 Trade and other liabilities 33 1 34 21 Cumulative currency translation adjustment 29 3 48 51 Net assets disposed 4 311 8 323 11 Cash received 54 413 1 468 7 Costs 6 6 5 17 16 Gain loss on disposal 44 96 12 128 20 Section 5 Financial statements 173 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
Disposals including business closures continued All figures in millions 2017 2016 Cash flow from disposals Cash current year disposals 468 11 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 13 9 Costs and other disposal liabilities paid 25 52 Net cash inflow outflow 430 50 Analysed as: Cash inflow outflow from sale of subsidiaries 19 54 Cash inflow from sale of associates 411 4 32.
Held for sale The assets and liabilities related to Wall Street English language teaching businesses WSE, part of the Core and Growth segments, and the K-12 school courseware business K-12, part of the North America segment, have been presented as held for sale following the approval by the Groups management to sell both businesses.
2017 2016 Notes WSE K-12 Total Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 10 16 16 Intangible assets 11 15 166 181 Deferred income tax assets 68 68 Trade and other receivables 4 23 27 35 257 292 Current assets Intangible assets pre-publication 20 8 239 247 Inventories 46 46 Trade and other receivables 12 36 48 Cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts 17 127 127 147 321 468 Assets classified as held for sale 182 578 760 Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax liabilities 2 2 Other liabilities 10 274 284 12 274 286 Current liabilities Trade and other liabilities 152 150 302 152 150 302 Liabilities classified as held for sale 164 424 588 Net assets classified as held for sale 18 154 172 174 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33.
Cash generated from operations All figures in millions Notes 2017 2016 Profit loss 408 2,335 Adjustments for: Income tax 13 222 Depreciation 10 90 95 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and goodwill 11 138 2,733 Amortisation of software 11 85 84 Net finance costs 6 30 60 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 78 97 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates, investments and fixed assets 116 40 Net foreign exchange adjustment from transactions 26 43 Share-based payment costs 26 33 22 Pre-publication 35 19 Inventories 24 17 Trade and other receivables 133 156 Trade and other liabilities 6 61 Retirement benefit obligations 232 106 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 11 10 Net cash generated from operations 462 522 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 458 131 Re-capitalisation dividends from Penguin Random House 312 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 82 88 Purchase of intangible software assets 150 157 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible software assets 4 Finance lease principal payments 5 6 Special pension contribution 227 90 Cost of major restructuring paid 71 167 Operating cash flow 669 663 Operating tax paid 75 63 Net operating finance costs paid 69 51 Operating free cash flow 525 549 Special pension contribution 227 90 Cost of major restructuring paid 71 167 Non-operating tax received 18 Free cash flow 227 310 Dividends paid including to non-controlling interests 318 424 Net movement of funds from operations 91 114 Acquisitions and disposals 416 19 Re-capitalisation dividends from Penguin Random House 312 Loans advanced repaid including to related parties 13 14 Purchase of treasury shares 28 27 New equity 5 7 Buyback of equity 27 149 Other movements on financial instruments 14 4 Net movement of funds 494 97 Exchange movements on net debt 166 341 Total movement in net debt 660 438 Section 5 Financial statements 175 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33.
Cash generated from operations continued Net cash generated from operations is translated at an exchange rate approximating the rate at the date of cash flow.
The difference between this rate and the average rate used to translate profit gives rise to a currency adjustment in the reconciliation between net profit and net cash generated from operations.
This adjustment reflects the timing difference between recognition of profit and the related cash receipts or payments.
Operating cash flow, operating free cash flow and total free cash flow are non-GAAP non-statutory measures and have been disclosed and reconciled in the above table as they are commonly used by investors to measure the cash performance of the Group.
In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Net book amount 12 9 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 12 5 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 4 The movements in the Groups current and non-current borrowings are as follows: Foreign Fair value and Financing exchange other 2016 cash flows movements movements 2017 Financial liabilities Non-current borrowings 2,517 1,292 149 10 1,066 Current borrowings 9 7 1 3 4 Total 2,526 1,299 150 7 1,070 Non-current borrowings include bonds, derivative financial instruments and finance leases.
Current borrowings include loans repayable within one year and finance leases, but exclude overdrafts classified within cash and cash equivalents.
Contingencies There are contingent Group liabilities that arise in the normal course of business in respect of indemnities, warranties and guarantees in relation to former subsidiaries and in respect of guarantees in relation to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
In addition, there are contingent liabilities of the Group in respect of legal claims, contract disputes, royalties, copyright fees, permissions and other rights.
None of these claims are expected to result in a material gain or loss to the Group.
On 24 November 2017, the European Commission published an opening decision that the United Kingdom controlled foreign company group financing partial exemption FCPE constitutes State Aid.
No final decision has yet been published, and it may be challenged by the UK tax authorities.
The Group has benefited from FCPE in 2017 and prior periods in total by approximately 90m.
At present the Group believes no provision is required in respect of this issue.
176 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35.
Commitments At the balance sheet date there were no commitments for capital expenditure contracted for but not yet incurred.
The Group leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms and renewal rights.
The Group also leases various plant and equipment under operating lease agreements, also with varying terms.
Lease expenditure charged to the income statement was 178m 2016: 186m.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments in respect of operating leases are as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Not later than one year 156 174 Later than one year and not later than two years 139 147 Later than two years and not later than three years 121 129 Later than three years and not later than four years 100 115 Later than four years and not later than five years 86 96 Later than five years 599 661 1,201 1,322 In the event that the Group has excess capacity in its leased offices and warehouses it will enter into sub-lease contracts in order to offset costs.
The future aggregate minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases are as follows: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Not later than one year 45 44 Later than one year and not later than two years 45 46 Later than two years and not later than three years 40 44 Later than three years and not later than four years 35 39 Later than four years and not later than five years 33 34 Later than five years 138 155 336 362 36.
Related party transactions Joint ventures and associates Amounts advanced to joint ventures and associates during the year and at the balance sheet date are set out in note 12.
Key management personnel Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Pearson executive see p11.
It is this Committee which had responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group in 2017.
Key management personnel compensation is disclosed below: All figures in millions 2017 2016 Short-term employee benefits 12 6 Retirement benefits 1 1 Share-based payment costs 2 1 Total 15 8 There were no other material related party transactions.
No guarantees have been provided to related parties.
Section 5 Financial statements 177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37.
Events after the balance sheet date During January 2018, the Group successfully executed market tenders to repurchase 250m of its 500m euro 1.875% notes due May 2021 and 200m of its 500m euro 1.375% notes due May 2025.
On 16 February, the Group completed its 300m share buyback programme.
In aggregate between 18 October 2017 and 16 February 2018, the Group repurchased 42,835,577 shares, including 21,839,676 repurchased since 31 December 2017 at a cost of 151m.
Accounts and audit exemptions The Pearson plc subsidiary companies listed below are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A.
Company number Company number Aldwych Finance Limited 04720439 Pearson International Finance Limited 02496206 Edexcel Limited 04496750 Pearson Loan Finance No.
3 Limited 05052661 Education Development International plc 03914767 Pearson Loan Finance No.
4 Limited 02635107 Longman Group Overseas Holdings Limited 00690236 Pearson Loan Finance Unlimited 05144467 Major123 Limited 05333023 Pearson Management Services Limited 00096263 Pearson Affordable Learning Fund Limited 08038068 Pearson Overseas Holdings Limited 00145205 Pearson Australia Finance Unlimited 05578463 Pearson Pension Nominees Limited 10809680 Pearson Books Limited 02512075 Pearson Pension Trustee Services Limited 10803853 Pearson Brazil Finance Limited 08848874 Pearson PRH Holdings Limited 08561316 Pearson Canada Finance Unlimited 05578491 Pearson Real Estate Holdings Limited 09768242 Pearson Dollar Finance plc 05111013 Pearson Services Limited 01341060 Pearson Dollar Finance Two plc 06507766 Pearson Shared Services Limited 04623186 Pearson Education Holdings Limited 00210859 TQ Catalis Limited 07307943 Pearson Education Investments Limited 08444933 TQ Clapham Limited 07307925 Pearson Education Limited 00872828 TQ Global Limited 07802458 Pearson Funding Four plc 07970304
