42 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Operating performance Revenues declined 4% in underlying terms, of the year.
This was partially offset by North America primarily due to anticipated declines in growth in Adoption state revenues where higher education and school courseware, strong performance in Texas Grades school assessment and Learning Studio, a K-12 Spanish, Indiana Grades K-12 Science Market summary learning management system we are retiring.
and South Carolina Grades 6-8 Science Our largest market includes all outweighed a lower adoption participation North American higher education 50 US states and Canada.
rate resulting from our decision not to courseware fell 3%.
School courseware compete for the California Grades K-8 Contribution to Group revenues fell high-single digits, impacted by a lower English Language Arts ELA adoption adoption participation rate and weak Open with a core basal programme.
65% Territory sales in the second half of the year.
School assessment declined high-single Our new adoption participation rate fell to Sales digits, due to previously announced contract 61% from 64% in 2016.
We won an estimated losses.
Learning Studio revenues continued 38% share of adoptions competed for 2,929m to decline as we move towards the 30% in 2016 and 29% of total new adoption retirement of the product in 2019.
Offsetting expenditure of $365m 19% of $470m Adjusted operating profit that, we saw modest growth in both virtual in 2016. schools and Online Program Management 394m Higher education OPM due to good underlying volume In higher education, total US college growth partially offset by some contract Efficacy finding enrolments, as reported by the National exits and in-sourcing.
Revenues in North Student Clearinghouse, fell 1.1%, with American Professional Certification were Working with Penn State combined two-year public and four-year flat on phasing of new contracts and a University, we found that for-profit enrolments declining 2.5%.
students in Introductory slowdown in IT certification late in 2017.
Enrolment weakness was particularly Physics courses who do better on Adjusted operating profits fell 10% in focused on part-time students where their Mastering Physics homework underlying terms, due primarily to the tended to perform better in exams enrolment declined 3.3%, a bigger decline impact of lower sales and other and external assessments.
than in any of the last five years.
Full-time operating factors partially offset by enrolment grew 0.3%, the first expansion restructuring savings.
Net revenues in our higher education Courseware courseware business declined 3% during School the year.
We estimate around 2% of this In school, revenue declined high-single decline was driven by lower enrolment: digits primarily due to sharp declines across just over 1% from the adoption of Open Open Territory states in the second half Market North American spotlight Assessment Association of American Medical Colleges The Association of American Medical Pearson VUE will deliver the MCAT exam in Colleges AAMC has selected Pearson VUE its premium, patented, owned-and-operated to deliver the prestigious Medical College network of Pearson Professional Centres and Admission Test MCAT beginning in 2018. several Pearson VUE Authorized Test Centre Selects globally.
In addition to the existing We are proud to enter into an agreement test centres, Pearson VUE is investing in an with the AAMC to deliver this important expansion of its test centre network to exam to tomorrows doctors, says Bob provide additional capacity for test takers.
We understand the AAMCs commitment to The Pearson Professional Centres are the gold excellence and we are proud to be part of standard in exam delivery, offering test takers their continued commitment to examinees a professional, highly secure and consistent and the testing community.
As an extension testing experience.
of the AAMC to its test takers, we will deliver each exam with care, consistency and the highest levels of customer service.
Section 3 Our performance 43 43 Operating performance 1 2 Link to strategic priorities Grow share through digital transformation Invest in structural growth markets See Our strategy, p1321 Educational Resources OER : around 5% Mathematics.
Revel registrations grew more We delivered 25.3m standardised online from the secondary market, new initiatives than 50%.
Including stand-alone eBook tests to K-12 students, up 7% from 2016. and other factors, primarily the growth in registrations, total North American digital TestNav 8, Pearsons next-generation online print rental: offset by c. 3% benefit from registrations were flat.
test platform, supported a peak load of institutional selling and the shift to digital 752,000 tests in a single day and provided The actions announced in early 2017 to and a 2% benefit in 2017 from lower 99.99% up time.
Our AI scoring systems promote access over ownership met with returns by the channel.
scored 35m responses to open-ended test success.
We reduced the rental price of items, around 30% of the total.
Paper-based In 2017, Pearsons US higher education 2,000 eBook titles and saw eBook revenues standardised test volumes fell 7% to 20.4m.
courseware market share, as reported by increase more than 20% in response.
MPI, was in the upper half of the c. 4041.5% Our print rental programme has had Professional Certification range seen over the last five years.
a successful start, and we have added In Professional Certification, VUE global test more than 90 further titles.
In institutional During 2017, we performed strongly in volume rose 1% to over 15m.
Revenues in courseware solutions we signed 210 Statistics and Business Statistics, Biology North America were flat, with continued institutions to our Inclusive Access and Accounting.
Statistics benefited from growth in certification for professional Direct Digital Access, DDA solutions, the popularity of best in class learning bodies, offset by modest declines in US taking the total to over 500.
During the application StatCrunch, Biology from the teacher certification and the GED High School year, we delivered over 1m course success of Campbell Biology 11e and Equivalency Test, after strong performance enrolments with inclusive access rising MasteringBiology, and Accounting from last year, and by weakness in higher level IT to c. 5% of our higher education revenue the success of Miller-Nobles Horngren certifications in the second half.
as more colleges and faculties see the Accounting 11e and MyAccountingLab.
We signed over 50 new contracts in 2017 This was offset by weakness in Information including a multi year contract with the Technology, particularly in the for-profit Assessment Association of American Medical Colleges sector and continued softness in AAMC to administer the MCAT, and School assessment Developmental Mathematics.
multi-year contracts with ExxonMobil In school assessment State and National Digital revenues grew 9% benefiting from and the Project Management Institute.
assessments, revenues declined high-single continued growth in direct sales, favourable Our renewal rate on existing contracts digits due to previously announced mix and selected price increases.
Global continues to be over 95%.
digital registrations of MyLab and related products fell 1%.
In North America, digital Pearson secured contract extensions in registrations fell 3% with good growth in Virginia, Indiana, Arizona, Minnesota, Science, Business & Economics and Revel Puerto Rico, Kentucky, New York City and offset by lower overall enrolment and North Carolina and for the National continued softness in Developmental Assessment of Educational Progress.
Helping create An interview with Glenn Hubbard, the future of learning Pearson author, economist and academic This digital experience will completely change the way we teach.
The digital experience that students get can We are in the early days of an incredibly really shape their understanding of the exciting future of learning.
Digital gives a much better experience to economics as they care about the world for students it gives them a real world feel, and want to learn about it.
A product that with first class pedagogy and assessment can bring the real world together with a built in I cant imagine a better way to learn.
user-friendly interface for students is a game changer.
The technology we have This digital experience will completely change makes that future possible.
It meets students at their point of need.
Students are able to go as fast We are going to see a future in less than ten or slow through the content as they need, years time where students are no longer getting a great learning experience.
From lugging a big bag of textbooks around.
Instead the professors perspective, they know their they will have a simple interface that gives Glenn Hubbard student is getting help to prepare for class.
GH Economist and academic 44 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Operating performance including Arizona State University Online, by print rental are partially offset by growth North America Maryville University, Rutgers University in digital revenues, benefits from our Clinical assessment and University of Alabama at Birmingham actions to promote access over ownership and from new partners, partially offset and a continued normalisation of channel Clinical assessment sales declined slightly by contract exits.
on an absence of new major product introductions.
Q-Interactive, Pearsons We signed 45 multi-year programmes Evidence of a marginally slower rate of digital solution for Clinical Assessment in 2017, renewed 19 programmes and decline in US student enrolment, together administration, saw continued strong launched 14 new programmes at partners, with slightly lower than expected attrition growth in licence sales with sub-test including Maryville University, Duquesne from OER in 2017, means that we are now administrations up more than 33% over University and Ohio University.
During the planning for an underlying decline in the same period last year.
year, we also agreed the termination demand of around 6% in US higher of nine programmes that were not education courseware, slightly improved Services mutually viable and did not renew from our prior range of 6% to 7%.
Connections Education North American student assessment Connections Education, our virtual school Brinker International, Inc. NYSE: EAT, one We expect stable testing revenues in business, served nearly 78,000 Full Time of the worlds leading casual dining North American student assessment as Equivalent students through full-time virtual restaurant companies and owner of Chilis new contracts offset a continued and blended school programmes, up 6% Grill & Bar and Maggianos Little Italy, contraction in revenue associated with on last year.
with over 1,600 owned, operated and our PARCC contract.
franchised restaurant locations, partnered Two new full-time online, state-wide, Connections Education with Pearson to launch a comprehensive partner schools opened for the 20172018 employer-education programme Best You Connections Education is expected to grow school year.
Enrolment growth from new EDU that provides free educational modestly as new partner school openings and existing schools was partially offset opportunities to Brinker employees, and good growth in enrolment are partially by the termination of a school partnership including foundational, GED and Associate offset by in-sourcing of non-core services at the end of the 20162017 school year.
by some partners and contract exits.
Revenues grew modestly as enrolment Professional Certification 2018 outlook growth was partially offset by increased North American Online Program in-sourcing, as some partners took US higher education courseware Management is expected to see modest non-core services in-house.
In US higher education courseware, growth in revenue as investment in new we expect revenues to be flat to down Enrolment and revenue is expected to programs begin to ramp up.
Professional mid-single digit percentages as similar grow in 2018 as growth in existing school certification is expected to grow revenues pressures seen in the last two years partnerships and the opening of new in the mid-single digits benefiting from continue with lower college enrolments, partner schools for the 20182019 school new contracts, including our nationwide increased use of OER and attrition from year offsets the termination of two further contract with the AAMC.
growth in the secondary market driven contracts and the in-sourcing of services by some customers.
The 2017 Connections Academy Parent Author North American Jean M Twenge, Professor of Psychology at view Services San Diego University and Pearson author Satisfaction Survey showed strong results with 92% of families with students enrolled in full-time online partner schools stating A Pearson authors view on the future they would recommend the schools to others and 95% agreeing that the curriculum As a professor, staying relevant to my is of high quality.
Results from the survey students is not just about what I teach, are available at pear.
With the advent of Pearson Online Services iGen the smartphone generation academics and publishers need to In Pearson Online Services, revenues be evolving.
This means offering declined high-single digits, primarily due digital, interactive to a decline in Learning Studio revenues as learning to stay we retire the product and the restructuring successfully of smaller non-OPM contracts.
Learning switched on by the Jean M Twenge JT Studio declined by just over 50% to a students of today Professor of Psychology revenue contribution of 11m in 2017. and of the future.
In OPM, we grew revenues modestly as course enrolments grew strongly, up 8% to more than 341,000, boosted by good growth and programme extensions at key partners, Section 3 Our performance 4 45 5 Operating performance 1 2 Link to strategic priorities Grow share through digital transformation Invest in structural growth markets See Our strategy, p1321 Revenues grew 1% in headline terms, were Assessment Core down 1% at CER and flat on underlying Student assessment and qualifications terms, primarily due to growth in OPM in the UK and Australia and growth in Pearson Test In student assessment and qualifications, Market summary of English offset by declines in school, higher revenues declined mid-single digits Our international business in established education, English courseware and student primarily due to lower AS level, iGCSE and and mature education markets including assessment and qualifications.
apprenticeship volumes as a result of policy the UK, Australia and Italy.
BTEC revenues also declined Adjusted operating profit declined 14%, modestly as revenues recognised in 2017 Contribution to Group revenues or 8m, in underlying terms due to revenue lagged the greater stability we have seen in mix, investment in new products and registrations and billed revenue in the year.
18% services and business exits, partially We successfully delivered the National offset by restructuring savings.
Sales Curriculum Test for 2017, marking 3.5m scripts, up slightly from 2016.
Courseware 815m Clinical assessment School Clinical assessment grew strongly with Adjusted operating profit Higher education revenues benefiting from strong growth English in the new editions of the Wechsler 50m Courseware revenues declined moderately.
Intelligence Scale for Children WISC-V In school, revenues declined in Australia, and the Clinical Evaluation of Language Efficacy finding due to market contraction in the primary Fundamentals CELF-5.
sector partly offset by slight growth in Research to understand Pearson Test of English PTE secondary, and declines in smaller markets the impact of Bug Club on in Europe and Africa.
In higher education, pupils literacy learning, Pearson Test of English PTE saw continued revenues were down slightly due to declines their attitudes to reading and school, strong growth in test volumes, which rose in smaller markets, while in Australia and and their reading activity found children 84% from 2016, driven primarily by its use to made 30months of progress in 18 months.
the UK an increase in direct to institution support visa applications to the Australian sales and a further shift to digital offset Department of Immigration and Border declines in traditional textbook sales.
Protection and good growth in New Zealand.
In English, there were declines in smaller markets.
Professional Certification In Professional Certification, revenues were flat as the impact of last years renegotiated terms of the UK Driving Theory test for the DVSA was offset by growth from new and existing contracts.
The future Further education BTEC of learning Core They chose BTEC will you?
This year, weve been proud to partner once Olympic hero Max Whitlock MBE said: again with some high profile leaders whove Im the type of person that likes to get stuck told us why they love their careers and why in and really involved in what I do.
Thats the they believe in BTEC.
Its not about being the hardest worker in the room its about The I Choose BTEC campaign was all about being the smartest.
I would definitely our BTEC Ambassadors telling their stories recommend BTEC to other people.
to show how BTEC opens doors to university, www.
com an apprenticeship and a thriving career.
Business entrepreneurs Peter Jones CBE, Jamal Edwards MBE and Sharmadean Reid MBE and double Olympic Gold medallist Max Whitlock MBE all featured on London buses, posters in schools and colleges, and in online campaigns.
46 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Operating performance Services Revenues were flat in both headline and Growth underlying terms due to growth in China, Higher education services school courseware in South Africa and In higher education services, revenues grew Pearson Test of English, offset by declines Market summary strongly.
in higher education services primarily due In Australia, we saw good growth due to Our growth markets in emerging and to lower enrolment at CTI and business our successful partnership with Monash developing economies with investment disposals in India, and declines in Brazil.
University, and continued success of the priorities in Brazil, China, India and Revenues were down 4% at CER due to the Graduate Diploma in Psychology.
total of c. 9,300 course registrations across Contribution to Group revenues Adjusted operating profit increased 3% the seven programs in Australia up from in underlying terms, reflecting the higher c. 6,900 in 2016.
In the UK, we launched 17% revenues in China, South Africa school five new programs in addition to the two courseware and PTE in India, together launched in 2016.
UK course registrations Sales with the benefits of restructuring, partially grew, reaching c. 1,400 compared with offset by lower revenues in Brazil.
769m English services Courseware Adjusted operating profit English services grew, with strong growth in Courseware revenues grew moderately, WSE Italy, due to the opening of new centres 38m due to strong growth in school textbook in 2015 and 2016, partially offset by declines sales in South Africa and English language in Japan.
courseware in China, partially offset by Efficacy finding weakness in Brazil.
2018 outlook Speakout: Students report that Speakout with In Core, we are expecting modest growth MyEnglishLab has increased driven by our recent investments in student their confidence, motivation assessment and qualifications, where we and enjoyment.
are offering new products and services of considerably greater value, along with continued growth in PTE and OPM with ten new program launches in the UK, and growth in existing programs in Australia.
Helping create the An interview with teachers from future of learning Gyananda School, Dehradun Thank you MyPedia For a new school like ours, MyPedia has been a great support in terms of curriculum planning, assessments and teacher support.
It challenges both teachers and students to break away from the conventional teaching learning methodology and encourages them to explore and derive their own conclusions.
Meenakshi Mehta Headteacher MyPedia is user friendly software for the teachers.
I was hesitant using it earlier but now it has become an integral part of my teaching plan.
It has everything that a teacher can wish for.
Pooja Bisht, Teacher Section 3 Our performance 47 47 Operating performance 1 2 Link to strategic priorities Grow share through digital transformation Invest in structural growth markets See Our strategy, p1321 Services Assessment Penguin Random House English services Pearson Test of English Following the disposal of a 22% stake In English services, growth in Wall Street Professional Certification grew strongly.
on 5 October 2017 Pearson owns 25% English in China, due to new centre Pearson Test of English saw over 30% of Penguin Random House, the first openings, was offset by declines in Brazil growth in the volume of tests taken in India.
truly global consumer book due to macroeconomic pressures.
2018 outlook School services Penguin Random House performed in In school services, revenue fell, with student In our growth markets we expect a modest line with our expectations with revenues enrolment in our sistemas business in increase in revenues, with growth in China up slightly on a headline and underlying Brazil falling 14% primarily due to NAME, in ELT products, PTE and in South Africa basis year on year on rising audio sales, our public sistema, where we took the due to improving enrolments in CTI partially broadly stable print sales and modest strategic decision to exit two-thirds of offset by declines in school courseware ongoing declines in demand for eBooks, our contracts with municipalities due to after a strong 2017.
In Brazil, we expect while the business benefited from unattractive economic prospects, together revenue to increase modestly from growth bestsellers by Dan Brown, R. J. Palacio, with a reduction in student enrolments in Wizard and school sistemas, partially John Grisham, Jamie Oliver and Dr. Seuss.
in our Dom Bosco private sistema due offset by declines in government contracts.
In India, we expect PTE and MyPedia to 2018 outlook In India, Pearson MyPedia, an inside service continue growing.
sistema solution for schools, expanded In Penguin Random House, we anticipate to over 500 schools with approximately a broadly level publishing performance 157,000 learners.
and expect an annual after-tax contribution of around 6065m to Higher education services our adjusted operating profit.
In higher education services, revenues declined sharply due to a 14% fall in total student enrolment at CTI, our university in South Africa driven by the cumulative impact of economic factors in recent years, partially offset by improved new student enrolments in 2017, together with business exits in India.
Helping create the An interview with Alan Palau, Innovation & Efficacy future of learning Delivery Director, Hispano-America, Pearson MePro: A new English Learning solution in Hispano-America MePro is a new and innovative English Learning programme launching spring 2018 in Hispano-America initially, with plans to roll Measuring learning progress it out further across markets such as China, Brazil and the Middle East.
English Learning opens up a world of opportunities and future careers and continues to grow as an indispensable core competency in 1 2 3 4 non-English speaking countries Pearson has the opportunity to reach millions of learners and teachers across the Growth Efficacy consulting Learning Measuring Relevant markets through MePro which can help & placement progress plan progress achievement meet this need by leveraging successful existing content, assessment and enhanced technology solutions and platforms to deliver personalised learning for students measured by Global Scale of English learning outcomes.
