Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Glossary of terms The definitions set out below apply throughout this document, unless the context requires otherwise.
Actuarial Best Estimate is the probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios, which is calculated using historical data, actuarial methods and judgements.
Board means the Board of Directors of the Company from time to time.
Business means the business of the Group.
Claims incurred, net of is the cost of claims incurred in the period, less any recoveries from reinsurers.
It includes reinsurance claims payments and movements in claims reserves.
Claims reserves are the Groups best estimate of the final cost of claims and related expenses which the Group will need to pay for claims relating to earned business.
Company means esure Group plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 07064312 whose registered office is The Observatory, Castlefield Road, Reigate, Surrey RH2 0SG.
Defaqto is a leading independent financial research company in the UK.
Earnings per share is the Groups profit after tax allocated to the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in EPS the Company in issue.
Footprint expansion means the Groups underwriting initiative to quote competitively for more customers.
com is a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 06062003 whose registered office is Imperial House, Imperial Way, Newport NP10 8UH.
Group or esure Group means the Company and its subsidiaries.
Gross earned premium is the total premium earned during the period on premiums underwritten in the current and previous underwriting years.
Gross written premiums are the total premiums relating to policies which began during the period.
IFRS means International Financial Reporting Standards.
Incurred but not reported are part of the Groups claims reserves, set aside to cover claims from accidents that have IBNR occurred but not been reported to the Group.
IBNR is necessarily an actuarial estimate.
Lifetime Customer Value the Group looks to deliver a positive return across the period that a customer chooses to stay with the business.
Ogden Rate is the discount rate set by the Lord Chancellor and used by UK courts to calculate lump sum settlements.
Ordinary shares means the ordinary shares with a nominal value of 112 pence each in the capital of the Company.
ORSA means Own Risk and Solvency Assessment and aims to assess the overall solvency needs of an insurance company.
Periodic Payment Orders are claims payments used to settle large personal injury claims.
In addition to providing a lump PPOs sum, PPOs provide regular index-linked payments for some or all of the future financial loss suffered.
Prudent Person Principle is a Solvency II rule requiring insurers to only make investments that a prudent person would make.
It does not require that those charged with governance should always makes correct decisions: but requires them to make decisions that will be generally accepted as sound by an average person and such decisions should be made as if they were managing their own affairs.
Reinsurance is an arrangement whereby the Group transfers part of the accepted insurance risk to a panel of insurers.
This allows the Group to mitigate its risk of losses from claims.
SFCR means Solvency and Financial Condition Report.
Solvency II is an EU legislative programme implemented in all 28 Member States on 1 January 2016.
Primarily it concerns the amount of capital that EU insurance companies must hold to reduce the risk of insolvency.
The Notes means the 125m 6.75% 10 year Tier 2 Subordinated Notes issued on 19 December 2014.
Underwriting is the receipt of premium in return for the provision of insurance to a policyholder.
The underwriting year refers to the financial year in which the policy begins.
126 127 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Glossary of terms continued Alternative Performance Measures Throughout this report, the Group uses a number of Alternative Performance Measures APMs.
The Group prepares its financial statements under IFRS and by definition these measures are not IFRS metrics.
These APMs are used by the Group, alongside IFRS measures, for both internal performance analysis and to help shareholders and other users of the Annual Report and financial statements to better understand the Groups performance.
Additional Services Revenue 1 Non-underwritten additional insurance products are the commission margins for ASR the Group generated from sales of such products.
2 Policy administration fees and other income is the income received as a result of administration charges, e. g. as a result of mid-term alterations to policy details by the policyholder and cancellation charges.
Other income includes introduction fees where the Group does not have a continuing relationship with the customer.
3 Claims income is the income generated by the Group from the appointment of firms used during the claims process, including car hire and medical suppliers.
This also includes legal panel membership fees from Scotland.
4 Non-underwritten additional services is the total income from the Groups nonunderwritten additional services and products.
5 Underwritten additional insurance products is the revenue calculated by deducting the Groups claims costs associated with its underwritten additional insurance products from the gross written premiums relating to these products in a particular period.
6 Non-underwritten additional services trading profit is the total non-underwritten additional services income less the total associated expenses.
ASR per IFP is the income derived from additional services revenues divided by the average number of in-force policies in the year.
This measure demonstrates that the Group is able to generate additional revenue alongside the core insurance premium.
Combined operating ratio is a metric for assessing the performance of a general insurance firm, calculated as the loss ratio plus the expense ratio.
Contribution means the trading profit loss generated from underwriting, non-underwritten additional services revenues and investments.
Cost per policy are the total expenses incurred by the Group excluding claims indemnity costs divided by the average number of in-force policies in the year.
Expense ratio means net insurance expenses plus claims handling costs as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance.
Fraud savings are the estimated cost savings that the Group has made from initiatives undertaken to deter and identify fraudulent activity.
This measure demonstrates the operational savings and claims indemnity cost benefits the Group has delivered in the period.
In-force policies means the number of live policies as at 31 December.
Loss ratio means claims incurred net of reinsurance as a percentage of earnings premiums, net of reinsurance.
Net Promoter Score is an index that measures the willingness of customers to recommend a companys products or services to others.
Non-trading costs means costs incurred by the business that do not relate to the ongoing trading of the Group.
Total Shareholder Return is a performance measure which compares share price movement with reinvested dividends as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Trading profit is earnings before interest, tax, non-trading expenses and amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
