Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION esure Group plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
Its registered office is The Observatory, Reigate, Surrey, RH2 0SG.
The nature of the Groups operations is the writing of general insurance for private cars and homes.
The Companys principal activity is that of a holding company.
All of the Companys subsidiaries are located in the United Kingdom, except for esure S. L. U. which is incorporated in Spain.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation These financial statements present the esure Group plc Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, comprising the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows and related notes, as well as the comparatives.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
At a General Meeting on 1 November 2016, the Companys shareholders approved the demerger of Gocompare.
com and on 3 November 2016 the demerger was completed.
Under IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations IFRS 5 the results and the cash flows of the Gocompare.
com business are, in line with the prior year financial statements, presented as discontinued operations.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
As detailed in the Strategic Report on page 19, the Directors have assessed the Groups prospects and viability for the three-year period to 31 December 2020.
Based on this robust assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months.
These consolidated financial statements have been presented in Sterling and rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
Throughout these consolidated financial statements any amounts which are less than 0.05m are shown by 0.0, whereas a dash represents that no balance exists.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial assets and land and buildings that are measured at fair value at the reporting date.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
New and amended accounting standards adopted with no significant impact on the Group The Group has applied the following standards and amendments for the first time for its annual reporting period commencing 1 January 2017: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 12 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20142016 Cycle Amendments to IFRS 12 The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the current or prior periods.
New and amended accounting standards that have been issued but are not yet effective The following standards have been issued and are effective for accounting periods ending after 31 December 2017 and are expected to have an impact on the Group financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments As an insurance group, the Group is expecting to take the option to defer the effective date of the new standard to 1 January 2021, in line with IFRS 17.
The standard includes requirements for recognition and measurement, impairment, derecognition of financial instruments and general hedge accounting.
The Groups current analysis is that this will not have a material impact on our results.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The new standard is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard specifies how and when an IFRS reporter will recognise revenue as well as requiring such entities to provide users of financial statements with more informative, relevant disclosures.
The standard provides a single, principles-based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers.
The Group has evaluated the impact of the new standard and believes that this will not have a material impact on our results.
IFRS 16 Leases The new standard is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
This is in contrast with the current standard which differentiates between operating and finance leases.
The Group has evaluated the impact of the new standard and believes that this will increase both fixed assets and leasing liabilities but will not have a material impact on our income statement.
78 79 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED New and amended accounting standards that have been issued but are not yet effective continued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts The new standard is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021.
The standard establishes principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of insurance and reinsurance contracts.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of the standard on its results.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiary companies are consolidated using the acquisition method.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtained control, and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases.
In preparing these consolidated financial statements, any intra-group balances, unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group trading are eliminated.
Where accounting policies used in individual financial statements of a subsidiary company differ from Group policies, adjustments are made to bring these policies in line with Group policies.
Revenue Gross written premiums Gross written premiums, being the total premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered into during the accounting period, excluding taxes or duties based on premiums, are recognised on the date which the policy commences.
Gross written premiums include any adjustments arising in the accounting period for premiums receivable in respect of business written in prior accounting periods.
Unearned premiums The proportion of gross written premiums that are to be earned in the accounting period after the balance sheet date are deferred as a provision for unearned premiums.
Premiums earned are computed separately for each insurance contract and are recognised as revenue using the daily pro rata method, which is consistent with the incidence of risk assumed over the coverage period of the related policy.
Reinsurance premiums ceded Reinsurance premiums are recognised and measured in a manner consistent with the related insured contracts issued by the Group and the specific terms of each reinsurance contract.
Reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpired portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included in reinsurance assets.
Unearned reinsurance premiums ceded Unearned reinsurance premiums are those proportions of premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the reporting date.
Unearned reinsurance premiums are deferred over the term of the underlying direct insurance policies for risks-attaching contracts and over the term of the reinsurance contract for losses-occurring contracts.
Other income Other income comprises sales of non-underwritten additional insurance products to Motor and Home insurance customers: policy administration fees: and fees generated from the appointment of firms used during the claims process and from car hire suppliers.
Revenue earned on the sale of additional services includes both brokerage fees and commission, where the Group has a continuing relationship with the customer, and introducer fees where the Group does not have a continuing relationship with the customer.
Revenue relating to insurance broking is brought into the accounts when the policy placement has been completed and confirmed.
Where the Group has an obligation to provide future services to the customer an element of income relating to the policy is deferred to cover the cost of fulfilling the associated contractual obligation plus a reasonable profit margin.
Deferred revenue is credited to the income statement over the period matching the Groups obligations to provide those services.
Where the Group has no contractual obligation to provide future services, the revenue is recognised immediately.
In certain circumstances, where the revenue cannot be reliably measured at the contract or policy inception date, broking fees and commission are recognised on a periodic basis when the consideration becomes due.
Rebates of commissions and fees relating to the return of premiums for additional insurance products and services are recognised at the point the return is due.
Administration fees and referral fees from credit hire are recognised in the period in which the related services are provided.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Revenue continued Investment income and instalment interest Investment income comprises interest and dividend income and net gains both realised and unrealised on financial assets classified at fair value through profit or loss, including derivative financial instruments.
Dividends are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
For listed securities, this is the date the security is listed as ex-dividend.
Interest income including interest received from policyholders who pay by instalment on assets classified as loans and receivables or as available-for-sale is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instruments initial carrying amount.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows.
Investment income also includes rental income.
Rental income represents income arising from operating leases and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Government grants Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as other income as fees for additional services over the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as deferred income and released to the income statement in equal amounts over the expected useful life of the related asset.
Claims and expenses recognition Gross claims incurred and claims handling expenses Gross claims include all claims incurred during the year, whether reported or not, less recoveries, together with related internal and external handling costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of claims, and any adjustment to claims outstanding from previous years.
Reinsurance claims Reinsurance claims are recognised and measured in a manner consistent with the related insurance contracts issued by the Group and the specific terms of the reinsurance contract.
Finance costs Finance costs comprise interest paid which is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated by using the effective interest rate method.
Accrued interest is included within the carrying value of the interest-bearing financial liability.
Taxation Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Current tax assets and liabilities also include adjustments in respect of tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income is recognised in equity or other comprehensive income and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences arising between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
It is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is recovered, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss except for deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement which is recognised outside the income statement, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity as appropriate.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
80 81 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rate at the reporting date.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in profit or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is recognised on business combinations and the acquisition of joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on business combinations is presented in intangible assets.
Positive goodwill is not amortised.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of the cash generating unit or units to which the goodwill is allocated exceeds its recoverable amount.
A recognised impairment loss is not reversed.
Software Purchased software is recognised as an intangible asset, with the carrying value being reviewed at every reporting date for evidence of impairment and the value being written down if any impairment exists.
If conditions subsequently improve, the previously recognised impairment may be reversed.
Amortisation of software begins when it is available for use, i. e. when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
The cost of purchased software is amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the intangible asset.
This has been set between two and seven years.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as an expense as incurred.
Costs associated with the development of software for internal use are capitalised only if the software is technically feasible for sale or use on completion and the Group has both the intent and sufficient resources to complete the development.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if the cost of the asset can be reliably measured, will generate future economic benefits and there is an ability to use or sell the asset.
The cost of internally generated software is amortised over the expected useful life of the intangible asset on a straight-line basis.
The expected useful life is between three and five years.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives.
For intangible assets that are recognised as part of business combinations, the Group makes an assessment of the fair value of the identified intangible assets acquired in the business combination.
Intangible assets other than those arising as part of business combinations are recognised as long as it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The Group holds no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill.
The carrying value of intangible assets with finite useful lives is reviewed at every reporting date for evidence of impairment with the value being written down if any impairment exists.
If conditions subsequently improve, the previously recognised impairment may be reversed and credited through the income statement.
The economic lives and amortisation methods of acquired intangible assets, other than software, are as follows: Insurer customer relationships: 5 to 6 years, based on the pattern of consumption of the benefits Insurer brands: 8 to 10 years, on a straight-line basis Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprises land and buildings occupied by the Group and fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware.
Land and buildings are stated at their revalued amount, which is the fair value, less subsequent depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at cost less depreciation and accumulated impairment.
Replacement or major inspection costs are capitalised when incurred if it is possible that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use, i. e. when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to write off the cost less residual values of the assets over their economic lives, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
The economic lives are as follows: Fixtures, fittings and equipment: between 3 and 8 years Freehold buildings: 100 years The assets residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no further future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the year in which the asset is derecognised.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment and revaluation of property, plant and equipment Carrying values are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If any such indications exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying value.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value of the asset, less costs to sell and the assets value in use.
Impairment losses are recognised through the income statement.
Impairment may be reversed if conditions subsequently improve and credited through the income statement.
Revaluations of land and buildings are undertaken annually, with more frequent revaluations occurring where an assessment is made that the carrying amount may differ materially from its fair value.
Where a revaluation occurs, any accumulated depreciation at the time of the revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group occupied property are credited to revaluation reserves in other comprehensive income, unless they offset previous decreases of the same asset that have been charged to the income statement, in which case the increase is also charged to the income statement.
Similarly, decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset that have been credited to a revaluation surplus are recorded directly in other comprehensive income as a reduction in the revaluation surplus: other decreases are charged to the income statement.
Financial assets Classification Financial assets falling within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are designated classified as at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, loans and receivables, available-for-sale AFS or held for trading.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
The Group does not classify any financial assets as held to maturity financial assets.
The Groups financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, other debtors and quoted and unquoted financial investments including derivatives.
Insurance receivables are also presented as financial assets.
Initial recognition of financial assets The Group designates on initial recognition its financial assets held for investment purposes at FVTPL or AFS with the exception of derivatives, which are classified as held for trading.
All other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
For those financial investments designated at FVTPL or AFS, this is in accordance with the Groups documented investment strategy.
Information relating to these investments is provided internally to the Groups Directors and key managers on a fair value basis.
The Groups financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, plus any directly attributable transaction costs, with the exception of financial assets at FVTPL for which directly attributable transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
If the Group determines that the fair value of a financial asset on initial recognition differs from its transaction price, but the fair value measurement is not evidenced by a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets, then this difference is deferred and is subsequently recognised as investment income only to the extent that there is a change in factor including time that would result in a market participant taking the data into account when setting a price for the financial asset.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at the trade date.
Subsequent measurement Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised through profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive income.
AFS financial assets are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss other than impairments and foreign currency movements recognised through other comprehensive income and accumulated in other reserves.
Interest income is recognised as investment income through the statement of comprehensive income and is calculated based on amortised cost using the effective interest rate.
When AFS financial assets are derecognised, the gain or loss accumulated in other reserves is reclassified to profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive income.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost less accumulated impairment losses using the effective interest rate method.
Impairment of financial assets Objective evidence of impairment may include default on cash flows from the asset and reporting financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty.
Financial assets measured at amortised cost The Group assesses at each reporting date whether any financial assets held at amortised cost are impaired.
Financial assets are impaired where there is evidence that one or more events occurring after the initial recognition of the asset may lead to a reduction in the estimated future cash flows arising from the asset.
Impairment losses on financial assets classified as loans and receivables are calculated as the difference between the carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses and any reversals of impairments are recognised through the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets Impairment losses on AFS financial assets are recognised by reclassifying the losses accumulated in other reserves to the income statement.
The amount reclassified is the difference between the value on initial recognition and the current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement.
If the fair value of an impaired AFS financial asset subsequently increases, then the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement to the extent that it offsets impairment losses previously recognised: otherwise, it is recognised in other reserves.
82 83 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial assets continued Derecognition of financial assets A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset.
Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if, and only if, the Group has a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and it intends to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Income and expenses are not offset in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income unless required or permitted by any accounting standard or interpretation.
Reinsurance The Group cedes insurance risk in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its potential losses from accepting insurance risk.
Reinsurance assets represent amounts expected to be recovered from reinsurers in respect of claims incurred under the related insurance contracts and are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims under the related insurance contracts.
Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date or more frequently when an indication of impairment arises during the reporting period.
Impairment occurs when there is objective evidence as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset that the Group may not receive all outstanding amounts due under the terms of the contract and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
Any impairment loss is recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Insurance receivables Insurance receivables are recognised when contracts are entered into and are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Subsequent to initial recognition, insurance receivables are measured at amortised cost less accumulated impairment losses, using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying value of insurance receivables is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, with the impairment loss recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Deferred acquisition costs DAC Acquisition costs comprise all commission and other direct and indirect acquisition costs arising from the conclusion of insurance contracts.
DAC represent the proportion of acquisition costs incurred that corresponds to the unearned premiums provision at the reporting date, and are deferred to the extent that these costs are recoverable out of future premiums.
All other acquisition costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, DAC assets are amortised over the period in which the related revenues are earned.
DAC assets are derecognised when the obligations under the related insurance contracts are either transferred or settled.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term deposits with original maturities of three months or less that are held to meet short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes.
Insurance contract liabilities Provision for unearned premiums The provision for unearned premiums represents the portion of premiums received or receivable that relates to risks that have not yet expired at the reporting date.
The provision is recognised when the contracts are entered into and premiums are charged, and is released as earned premium in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income over the term of the contract in accordance with the pattern of insurance service provided under the contract.
Liability adequacy test At each reporting date the Group reviews its unexpired risk and performs a liability adequacy test to determine whether the estimated cost of future claims and deferred acquisition costs exceeds the provision for unearned premiums.
This calculation uses current estimates of future contractual cash flows after taking account of the investment return expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant technical provision.
If these estimates show that the carrying amount of the unearned premium is inadequate, the deficiency is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and a corresponding provision for unexpired risk is recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Outstanding claims provision The provision for claims outstanding comprises provisions for the estimated cost of settling all claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date including related claims handling expenses, whether reported or not.
Anticipated reinsurance recoveries and salvage and subrogation recoveries are disclosed separately as assets.
Insurance payables Insurance payables are recognised when due and measured initially at the fair value of the consideration received.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities falling within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as derivatives held for trading, or other financial liabilities.
The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial liabilities continued The Groups other financial liabilities include other payables and borrowings.
Insurance payables are also presented as other financial liabilities.
Initial recognition All financial liabilities are measured initially at fair value less, in the case of other financial liabilities, directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income when the liabilities are derecognised.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any fees or costs that are an integral part of effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums and discounts.
The amortisation is included in finance costs in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Derecognition of financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Derivatives Derivatives are measured at fair value both initially and subsequent to initial recognition.
All changes in fair value are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Derivatives are presented as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Hedge accounting The Group does not currently designate any derivatives as hedging instruments.
Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other assets to holders of the financial instruments.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of the expenditure required to settle a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to a provision is presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Employee benefits pensions The Group contributes to a defined contribution scheme for its employees.
The contributions payable to this scheme are charged to the income statement in the accounting period to which they relate.
Leases Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as the related income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned i. e. when virtually certain.
Group as a lessee operating leases Leases which do not transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased items are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments, including the effects of any lease incentives, are recognised as an expense in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the grant date at the fair value of the equity instruments excluding the effect of non-market vesting conditions but including the effect of market vesting conditions.
Fair value is not subsequently remeasured.
The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity, based on the best estimate of the number of awards which will ultimately vest unconditionally with employees.
The estimate of the number of awards expected to vest excluding the effect of market vesting conditions is revised at each reporting date, with any consequential changes to the charge recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
84 85 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Where equity-settled share-based payments are modified, any incremental fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the revised vesting period.
Discontinued operations Under IFRS 5, following the demerger, Gocompare.
com represents a discontinued operation and the post-tax profit or loss, including direct transaction costs, is presented as a single amount on the face of the statement of comprehensive income in the prior year.
The demerger is a distribution of non-cash assets to the owners and, as such, falls under IFRIC 17.
A fair value uplift, being the difference between the book value and the fair value at the date of distribution, of 213.6m is therefore seen on demerger: this is based on the share price at the date of demerger note 12.
Non-trading costs Non-trading costs are those costs which do not relate to the ongoing trading of the business.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates: however, the consolidated financial statements presented are based on conditions that existed at the balance sheet date.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies Insurance contract liabilities Estimates have to be made both for the expected ultimate cost of claims reported at the reporting date and for the expected ultimate cost of claims incurred but not reported IBNR at the reporting date.
It can take a significant period of time before ultimate claims cost can be established with certainty for some types of claims.
The ultimate cost of outstanding claims is estimated by carrying out standard actuarial projections in line with the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries Technical Actuarial Standards.
These techniques use past claims information and development patterns of these claims to project the expected future claims cost both for notified and non-notified claims.
Similar judgements, estimates and assumptions are employed in the assessment of adequacy of provisions for unearned premium and hence whether there is a requirement for an unexpired risk provision.
Please refer to note 20 for additional details.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION Differences to the Groups 2016 Annual Report and Accounts in the basis of segmentation The Group makes decisions on customer acquisition and retention based on contribution.
In addition to the underwriting contribution from Motor and Home, a diversified suite of additional insurance products and services provide opportunities to deliver enhanced customer contribution.
In order to facilitate the management of the Group and post the demerger of Gocompare.
com, the reporting to the Board of Directors has changed and the reportable segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments reflect this change.
The 2016 segments have been restated to reflect the new segmental reporting.
Operating segments The Group has two operating segments as described below.
These segments are also the Groups reportable segments and represent the manner in which the business is regularly reported to the Groups executive and Board of Directors.
Motor This segment incorporates the revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Groups Motor insurance underwriting activities inclusive of additional insurance products underwritten by the Group and related non-underwritten additional services.
Investment income is allocated to the segment on the basis of premium income.
Home This segment incorporates the revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Groups Home insurance underwriting activities and related non-underwritten additional services.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 4.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Segmental revenues, expenses and other information An analysis of the Groups results by reportable segment is shown below: Year ended 31 December 2017 Continuing operations Motor Home Total m m m Gross written premiums 734.3 85.9 820.2 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 596.3 81.5 677.8 Investment income 12.0 1.0 13.0 Instalment interest income 43.3 5.2 48.5 Other income 36.3 5.7 42.0 Total income 687.9 93.4 781.3 Net incurred claims 436.5 53.5 490.0 Claims handling costs 21.5 3.2 24.7 Insurance expenses 113.4 27.1 140.5 Other operating expenses 13.8 1.0 14.8 Total expenses 585.2 84.8 670.0 Trading profit 102.7 8.6 111.3 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 2.2 Non-trading costs 1.8 Finance costs 8.7 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 98.6 Tax expense 18.2 Profit after taxation from continuing operations 80.4 Net expense ratio 22.6% 37.2% 24.4% Net loss ratio 73.2% 65.6% 72.3% Combined operating ratio 95.8% 102.8% 96.7% The average number of in-force policies during the year ended 31 December 2017 was 2.28 million.
86 87 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 4.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Segmental revenues, expenses and other information continued An analysis of the Groups results by reportable segment is shown below: Year ended 31 December 2016 restated Continuing operations Motor Home Total m m m Gross written premiums 563.7 91.3 655.0 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 470.6 84.3 554.9 Investment income 16.1 2.0 18.1 Instalment interest income 32.6 5.0 37.6 Other income 31.5 5.4 36.9 Total income 550.8 96.7 647.5 Net incurred claims 356.4 55.6 412.0 Claims handling costs 19.5 3.6 23.1 Insurance expenses 85.8 27.5 113.3 Other operating expenses 13.4 1.1 14.5 Total expenses 475.1 87.8 562.9 Trading profit 75.7 8.9 84.6 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 2.3 Non-trading costs 0.9 Finance costs 8.7 Profit before taxation from continuing operations 72.7 Tax expense 13.2 Profit after taxation from continuing operations 59.5 Net expense ratio 22.4% 36.9% 24.6% Net loss ratio 75.7% 66.0% 74.2% Combined operating ratio 98.1% 102.9% 98.8% The average number of in-force policies during the year ended 31 December 2016 was 2.08 million.
There are no other material components of income and expense or non-cash items.
Trading profit from continuing operations, being earnings before interest, tax, non-trading expenses and amortisation of acquired intangible assets, is managements measure of the overall profitability of the Groups operating activities.
The Groups segmental trading profit, comprising Motor and Home is 111.3m 2016: 84.6m.
The Groups profit in respect of continuing operations after tax is 80.4m 2016: 59.5m.
The Group incurred non-trading costs of 1.8m in 2017 of which 1.7m related to share-based payments in respect of the one-off award disclosed in note 27.
The Group incurred non-trading costs of 0.9m in 2016 of which 0.4m related to share-based payments in respect of the long service and one-off awards disclosed in note 27 and 0.2m related to stamp duty and legal fees in respect of a new lease.
In 2016 the Group generated a trading profit 24.5m on its discontinued operation Gocompare.
com prior to the demerger on 3 November 2016.
An analysis of the discontinued operation is presented in note 12.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED Segmental profit drivers Motor Trading profit is 35.7% higher at 102.7m 2016: 75.7m.
The underwriting performance of 24.9m 2016: 8.9m reflects an improvement in the Groups current accident year loss ratio in the year as higher pricing earned through ahead of claims inflation.
Instalment and other income net of other operating expenses increased 29.8% to 65.8m 2016: 50.7m, largely due to an increase in in-force policies and average premiums.
The combined operating ratio improved by 2.3ppts to 95.8% 2016: 98.1% and this was largely driven by an improvement in the loss ratio of 2.5ppts to 73.2% 2016: 75.7%, with the expense ratio broadly stable at 22.6% 2016: 22.4%.
Home Trading profit is marginally lower at 8.6m 2016: 8.9m.
The Groups underwriting loss of 2.3m was similar to 2016 loss of 2.4m, albeit 2017 has benefited from weather event costs that were lower than normal.
Instalment and other income net of other operating expenses increased 6.5% to 9.9m 2016: 9.3m aided by an improvement in non-underwritten additional insurance products.
The combined operating ratio was stable year-on-year at 102.8% 2016: 102.9%.
Statement of financial position The assets and liabilities of the Group are reported on an aggregated consolidated basis.
They are not allocated to reportable segments and are reported on the same basis as disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position on page 76.
EARNED PREMIUMS, NET OF REINSURANCE Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Continuing operations Gross written premiums 820.2 655.0 Change in unearned premium provision 86.2 57.0 Gross earned premiums 734.0 598.0 Written premiums, ceded to reinsurers 69.0 47.8 Change in unearned premium provision 12.8 4.7 Earned premiums, ceded to reinsurers 56.2 43.1 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 677.8 554.9 6.
INVESTMENT RETURN AND INSTALMENT INTEREST Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Continuing operations Interest income on financial investments 11.8 13.4 Interest income on cash deposits 0.1 0.2 Investment expenses 4.1 3.5 Fair value gains losses on derivative financial instruments 7.3 25.8 Losses gains on financial instruments at FVTPL 6.3 33.5 Gains on AFS financial instruments in P&L 1.1 Gains on AFS financial instruments recognised in OCI 2.0 Gains on AFS financial instruments reclassified from equity to P&L 0.8 Rental income 0.3 0.3 Total investment return 13.0 18.1 Instalment interest 48.5 37.6 Total investment return and instalment interest 61.5 55.7 Total interest income calculated using the effective interest rate method comprises interest income on cash deposits and AFS debt securities and instalment interest.
88 89 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 7.
OTHER INCOME Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Continuing operations Fees for additional services 42.0 36.9 Total other income 42.0 36.9 8.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Continuing operations Wages and salaries 55.0 51.9 Social security costs 6.8 5.6 Pension costs defined contribution schemes 2.6 2.5 Equity-settled share-based payment expenses note 27 1.6 2.6 Total employee benefit expense 66.0 62.6 The average number of employees, including Directors, during each period was: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Operations 1,264 1,212 Support 425 411 Total average number of employees 1,689 1,623 9.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Continuing operations Emoluments 2.8 2.9 Exercised share awards 0.4 Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 0.1 0.1 Total Directors remuneration 2.9 3.4 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Remuneration of the highest paid Director Emoluments 0.9 1.1 Exercised share awards 0.2 Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 0.1 0.1 Total remuneration of the highest paid Director 1.0 1.4 Directors emoluments do not include the value of any share options granted to Directors.
Full disclosure of the awards is provided in note 27.
Retirement benefits were accruing to two Directors 2016: two in respect of defined contribution pension schemes.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 10.
INSURANCE AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Continuing operations Acquisition of insurance contracts 88.7 75.4 Change in deferred acquisition costs 7.1 12.5 Administration 58.9 50.4 Insurance expenses 140.5 113.3 Other operating expenses 18.8 17.7 During the year ended 31 December 2017, a reclassification of 0.1m is included within other operating expenses in relation to a revaluation of the Groups land and buildings 2016: 0.1m charge.
PROFIT AFTER TAX Profit after tax is stated after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Continuing operations Employee benefit expense note 8 66.0 62.6 Depreciation and revaluation of property, plant and equipment note 18 4.0 3.9 Amortisation of intangible assets note 17 4.6 15.6 Operating lease payments 2.9 3.3 Government grant income 0.1 0.2 Auditors remuneration from continuing and discontinued operations: Fees for audit services Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 0.4 0.4 Fees for non-audit services Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Tax advisory fees 0.1 Corporate finance services in relation to demerger of Gocompare.
com 1.4 Total non-audit fees 0.1 1.6 Total Group auditor remuneration 0.5 2.0 Amortisation arises on software, acquired brands and customer relationships.
Amortisation charged is recorded within insurance expenses and other operating expenses.
In 2016, non-audit fees were principally related to the reporting accountant role for the Groups demerger of Gocompare.
com, related work including tax advice specific to the demerger and a review of the accounting treatment proposed by management.
90 91 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 12.
COM On 1 January 2016, the Group owned 100% of the ordinary share capital of Gocompare.
com and controlled 100% of the voting rights.
On 7 June 2016 the Board announced a strategic review which concluded that a demerger should be pursued.
On 3 November 2016, the demerger was completed and the shares in Gocompare.
com were admitted to the premium segment of the Official List and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
com is an internet based price comparison website for financial and non-financial products.
Demerger The demerger was effected by the Group making an interim in-specie distribution of Gocompare.
Following approval of the demerger by shareholders, but before the approval of the demerger dividend by the Board, Gocompare.
com drew down debt of 75m under a term loan facility and paid a cash dividend to the Group of 73.3m.
com has been presented as a discontinued operation with all income and expenses shown as a single line in the statement of comprehensive income.
The demerger is considered a distribution of non-cash assets to owners and, as such, falls under IFRIC 17 which requires a revaluation to fair value.
A non-cash gain of 213.6m, based on the fair value of the assets at demerger based on the share price on the date of demerger, is therefore recorded in the statement of comprehensive income.
The following tables summarise the performance of Gocompare.
com from 1 January 2016 to the demerger on 3 November 2016.
Period ended 3 Nov 2016 m Investment return 0.0 Fees for additional services 113.1 Total income 113.1 Other operating expenses 88.6 Trading profit 24.5 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 11.1 Fees associated with the demerger of Gocompare.
com 14.5 Non-cash demerger gain 213.6 Profit before tax 212.5 Taxation expense 2.8 Profit after tax from discontinued operations 209.7 The following table analyses the cash flows relating to the discontinued operation included in the consolidated cash flow statement from 1 January to the demerger on 3 November 2016.
Period ended 3 Nov 2016 m Net cash generated from operating activities 26.8 Net cash used by investing activities 1.1 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 25.7 All statement of financial position items are, post demerger, derecognised from the statement of financial position with the net assets at demerger being shown as a single movement in the statement of changes in equity of 301.8m, being the valuation of the distribution to shareholders.
The non-cash gain of 213.6m is recorded as an increase in goodwill and intangible assets immediately prior to demerger.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 12.
COM CONTINUED The following schedule details the assets and liabilities of the demerged group.
3 Nov 2016 m Assets Goodwill and intangible assets 372.0 Property, plant and equipment 1.4 Other receivables 21.2 Cash and cash equivalents 17.4 Total assets 412.0 Liabilities Other payables 29.2 Current tax liabilities 2.2 Deferred tax liabilities 5.7 Borrowings 73.1 Total liabilities 110.2 Net assets 301.8 The average number of employees, including Directors, in the period was: Period ended 3 Nov 2016 Price comparison 139 13.
FINANCE COSTS Finance costs in each period represents the total interest expense calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Continuing operations Interest expense on 10 year Subordinated Notes see note 19 8.7 8.7 Total finance costs 8.7 8.7 14.
TAXATION Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Continuing operations Current taxes on income for the reporting period 19.6 13.9 Tax adjustment relating to income for prior periods 0.2 Total current tax 19.6 13.7 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.5 0.2 Effect of change in tax rate 0.1 0.3 Total deferred tax credit 1.4 0.5 Taxation expense 18.2 13.2 The tax rate used for the calculations is the Corporation Tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20.00% payable by the corporate entities in the UK on taxable profits under tax law in that jurisdiction.
92 93 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 14.
TAXATION CONTINUED The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Continuing operations Profit before taxation 98.6 72.7 Taxation calculated at 19.25% 2016: 20.00% 19.0 14.5 Effect of expenses that are not deductible 0.0 0.3 Adjustments in relation to the current tax of prior years 0.2 Non-taxable income 0.8 0.8 Change in tax rate 0.0 0.6 Taxation expense 18.2 13.2 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Tax recognised directly in equity Deferred tax charge credit recognised directly in equity 0.9 0.3 Total tax recognised directly in equity 0.9 0.3 The deferred tax recognised directly in equity relates to deferred tax arising on share-based payments where the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense recognised.
There is also deferred tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income that relates to AFS investments.
Factors affecting the tax charge for future periods A reduction in the standard rate of Corporation Tax from 20% to 19% was effective from 1 April 2017.
There will be a further reduction in the rate of Corporation Tax to 17% from 1 April 2020.
This change was substantively enacted at the year end date.
DIVIDENDS A 2017 interim dividend per share of 4.1p 17.1m was declared by the Board of Directors in August 2017 2016: interim dividend per share of 3.0p, 12.5m.
Subsequent to the year end, a 2017 final dividend per share of 9.4p 39.3m was declared by the Board of Directors 2016: final dividend per share of 10.5p, 43.9m.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 16.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Group and the weighted average of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding ordinary shares held as employee benefit trust shares.
A calculation is also shown based on the earnings from continuing operations attributable to the owners of the Group.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Group by the weighted average of ordinary shares in issue during the period adjusted for any dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Share issues during the year are set out in note 26.
The difference between the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year, being 5,586,240 2016: 2,009,742, relates to the dilutive potential of the share-based payment arrangements.
Details of share awards are set out in note 27.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Profit after taxation 80.4 269.2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million basic 418.0 416.6 Earnings per share basic pence 19.2 64.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million diluted 423.6 418.6 Earnings per share diluted pence 19.0 64.3 Continuing operations earnings per share Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Profit from continuing operations, net of tax 80.4 59.5 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million basic 418.0 416.6 Earnings per share from continuing operations basic pence 19.2 14.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million diluted 423.6 418.6 Earnings per share from continuing operations diluted pence 19.0 14.2 Discontinued operations earnings per share Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Profit from discontinued operations, net of tax 209.7 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million basic 418.0 416.6 Earnings per share from continuing operations basic pence 50.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million diluted 423.6 418.6 Earnings per share from continuing operations diluted pence 50.1 94 95 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 17.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Acquired Customer Goodwill Software brands relationships Total m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2016 127.7 10.5 65.1 21.5 224.8 Additions in the year 5.2 5.2 Disposals in the year 0.2 0.2 Demerger of Gocompare.
com 1.1 12.9 8.1 22.1 As at 31 December 2016 5.7 19.6 11.3 36.6 Amortisation for the year 2.4 2.2 4.6 Disposals in the year 0.5 0.5 As at 31 December 2017 7.6 21.8 11.3 40.7 Net book value As at 31 December 2016 8.1 4.6 12.7 As at 31 December 2017 14.2 2.4 16.6 Included in software as at 31 December 2017 is 5.3m relating to software assets that are not yet available for use in the manner intended by management 31 December 2016: 2.0m.
As a result, no amortisation has been charged on these assets during the year.
Work on bringing these assets into a condition necessary for their intended use is expected to be completed during 2018, after which the assets are expected to have a useful economic life of two to seven years.
Goodwill of 127.7m as at 1 January 2016 relates to goodwill arising on the acquisition of Gocompare.
Included in acquired brands and customer relationships were the Gocompare.
com brand and the Gocompare.
com customer relationships recognised on application of IFRS 3 to the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of the ordinary share capital of Gocompare.
The other acquired brands and customer relationship intangible assets represent the Sheilas Wheels and esure brands and customer relationships acquired by the Group as part of the acquisition of esure Holdings Limited in February 2010.
These assets were fair valued at the date of acquisition in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3.
The brands are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives of between eight and ten years.
The customer relationships are being amortised on a reducing balance basis over their estimated useful economic lives of between five and six years.
Impairment testing on intangible assets The Group tests intangible assets with finite useful lives for impairment where there are indicators that their carrying value may be impaired.
There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported for any intangible assets with finite useful lives and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets requires that all intangible assets not yet in use are tested for impairment annually.
This testing was performed for the assets not yet in use at year end.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 18.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost As at 1 January 2016 12.9 28.5 41.4 Additions in the year 0.0 3.4 3.4 Demerger of Gocompare.
com 2.3 2.3 Disposals in the year 1.5 1.5 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.0 0.0 As at 31 December 2016 12.9 28.1 41.0 Additions in the year 0.8 0.8 Disposals in the year 0.8 0.8 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.7 0.7 As at 31 December 2017 13.6 28.1 41.7 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 January 2016 6.6 6.6 Depreciation for the year 0.1 3.9 4.0 Demerger of Gocompare.
com 0.9 0.9 Disposals in the year 1.1 1.1 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2016 8.5 8.5 Depreciation for the year 0.1 4.7 4.8 Disposals in the year 0.8 0.8 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2017 12.4 12.4 Carrying amount As at 31 December 2016 12.9 19.6 32.5 As at 31 December 2017 13.6 15.7 29.3 Included in property, plant and equipment as at 1 January 2016 was 18.8m relating to computer hardware assets that were not yet available for use in the manner intended by management.
These assets are now being used by the business and depreciation is being charged accordingly.
Owner-occupied properties are stated at their revalued amounts, as assessed by qualified external valuers annually, all with recent relevant experience.
These values are assessed in accordance with the relevant parts of the current RICS Valuation Standards in the UK Red Book.
More frequent revaluations are performed by management to assess that the carrying amount does not materially differ from its fair value.
This assessment, on the basis of existing use value and in accordance with UK Valuation Standard 1.3, is the estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction, after proper marketing wherein the parties had acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion, assuming that the buyer is granted vacant possession of all parts of the property required by the business and disregarding potential alternative uses and any other characteristics of the property that would cause its market value to differ from that needed to replace the remaining service potential at least cost.
The valuation assessment adopts market-based evidence and is in line with guidance from the International Valuation Standards Committee and the requirements of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
Independent valuations were performed as at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
If land and buildings were not stated at their revalued amounts, and were instead held under the cost model, land and buildings would have a carrying value at 31 December 2017 of 11.7m 31 December 2016: 11.8m.
96 97 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 19.
Financial assets As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Financial investments designated at FVTPL: Shares and other variable yield securities and units in unit trusts 49.8 39.3 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 160.2 394.5 Deposits with credit institutions 372.1 209.3 Financial investments held for trading: Derivative financial instruments 1.1 0.1 Financial investments at FVTPL 583.2 643.2 AFS financial assets: Debt securities and other fixed income securities 342.0 192.6 Shares in unquoted equity investments 4.1 3.2 Total financial investments 929.3 839.0 Loans and receivables: Insurance and other receivables note 21 252.3 198.2 Cash and cash equivalents note 23 46.6 25.5 Total financial assets 1,228.2 1,062.7 Financial investments are held to support the Groups insurance activities and may be required to be realised in order to meet the obligations arising out of those activities at any time.
Available-for-sale financial assets During 2017, the Group continued to refine and enhance its asset and liability matching for capital management purposes by designating some financial assets acquired during the year as available-for-sale.
Any movements in fair value of these assets is accounted for in other comprehensive income, reducing volatility in the income statement.
These assets continue to have a longer average duration of 4.1 years 2016: 2.6 years which leads to an increased sensitivity to interest rate changes but are closely aligned to the Groups liability exposure.
Derivative financial instruments, at fair value through profit or loss To eliminate as far as possible the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the value of investments denominated in currencies other than Sterling, the Group has purchased forward currency contracts.
The Group also uses government bond futures as a mechanism to adjust investment portfolio duration.
The Groups exposure to currency risk is set out in note 19.3 a. Infrastructure equity and direct lending As a result of the Groups strategic asset allocation review in 2017, capital commitments to new asset classes are recognised within its surplus liquidity funds at year end, ahead of these commitments being invested in 2018.
The Surplus portfolio seeks to deliver returns in asset classes that are aligned with the Groups risk appetite, in particular with reference to its solvency capital requirements.
The Groups strategic asset allocation review was finalised in 2017.
This resulted in a divestment from its high yield fixed income assets and a subsequent commitment to infrastructure equity and direct lending.
Commitments are expected to be invested during 2018.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 19.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED 19.2.
Financial liabilities As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Financial liabilities held for trading: Derivative financial instruments 0.2 1.6 Other financial liabilities: Borrowings see below 123.1 122.8 Insurance and other payables note 24 26.0 17.1 Total financial liabilities 149.3 141.5 As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Borrowings 10 year Subordinated Notes 123.1 122.8 Total borrowings 123.1 122.8 Derivative financial instruments are due within one year.
Financial liabilities The movement in Group borrowings in the year is attributable to: m As at 31 December 2016 122.8 Cash outflow 8.4 Non-cash movement: interest accrued 8.7 As at 31 December 2017 123.1 Subordinated Notes 125m 10 year Subordinated Notes were issued by esure Group plc on 19 December 2014 at the rate of 6.75% per annum, with payments made biannually.
The fair value of the 10 year Subordinated Notes at 31 December 2017 was 147.5m.
The nominal 125m Subordinated Notes have a maturity date of 19 December 2024.
The Notes are direct, unsecured and subordinated obligations of the Group, ranking pari passu and without preference amongst themselves, and will, in the event of the winding-up of the Group or in the event of an administrator of the Group being appointed and giving notice that it intends to declare and distribute a dividend, be subordinated to the claims of all senior creditors and policyholders of the Group.
Financial risk management objectives The Group is exposed to a range of financial risks through its financial assets, financial liabilities, reinsurance assets and policyholder liabilities.
In particular, the key financial risk is that the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from insurance policies as they fall due.
The most important components of this financial risk are market risk including interest rate risk, equity risk and currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group policy concerning risk ensures compliance with Solvency II Prudent Person Principle requirements.
98 99 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 19.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED 19.3.
Financial risk management objectives continued a Market risk Market risk represents the uncertainty in the financial position due to fluctuations in the level and in the volatility of market prices of assets and liabilities.
There continues to be uncertainty in the Ogden discount rate which impacts the cash flows relating to large claims and frequency of Periodical Payment Orders, and this affects the ability to match assets to these liabilities.
In addition, there is volatility in the UK based assets due to Brexit.
Key elements Interest rate risk Equity risk Spread risk Concentration risk Mitigation The investment strategy is set with consideration to the overall market risk of the portfolio.
Oversight of the Groups investment strategy is undertaken by the management Investment Committee and overall financial risks by the Financial Risk Committee, both chaired by the Chief Finance Officer.
Market risk is managed through regular monitoring, including the drivers of investment return and value at risk measures, counterparty exposures and interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities.
Asset liability management is a key area of focus within the investment strategy, with continuous monitoring and actions taken against the risk appetites set.
The Group manages the level of investment counterparty credit risk it accepts by placing limits on its exposure to a single counterparty or groups of counterparties, and on geographical counterparties, geographical segments and sectors.
Investment manager mandates limit concentration risk, ensuring diversification in such a way as to avoid excessive accumulation of risk in the portfolio.
Such risks are subject to regular review within the Investment Committee.
The investment strategy does not expose the Group to material currency risk or the risks arising from active trading of derivatives.
Derivative instruments are only used as a risk mitigation technique.
Sensitivities Interest rate risk The sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk illustrates how changes in the fair value or future cash flows of the financial investments bearing interest rate risk will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates at the reporting date.
For an increase of 100 basis points in the Bank of England base rate the profit before tax for the period would decrease by 4.5m 2016: 3.7m, reflecting the reduction in fair value on assets designated as FVTPL and equity would decrease by 19.4m 2016: 16.4m.
For a decrease of 50 basis points in the Bank of England base rate the profit before tax for the period would increase by 2.3m 2016 25 basis points : 0.9m, reflecting the increase in fair value on assets designated as FVTPL and equity would increase by 9.7m 2016 25 basis points : 4.1m.
The increased sensitivity to interest rates, on an equity basis, is caused by the increase in the basis points range used in the analysis, due to the increase in the Bank of England rate.
Equity risk If equity market indices had increased or decreased by 10%, the profit before tax for the year would increase or decrease by 5.0m 2016: 3.9m.
Currency risk One investment manager, who holds shares and other variable yield securities, is permitted per their mandate to have unhedged currency risk exposure of up to 16.3m 2016: 12.2m.
At the reporting date, the Group has direct exposure to both US Dollars and Euros through shares with a value of 3.2m 2016: 2.1m.
If the Sterling rates with either of these foreign currencies had strengthened weakened by 10%, the profit before tax for the year would decrease increase by 0.3m 2016: 0.2m.
Financial risk management objectives continued b Credit risk Credit risk is the loss or adverse change in the financial situation, resulting from fluctuations in the credit standing of counterparties and any debtors to which the Group is exposed.
Key elements Reinsurance counterparty risk Supplier debtor risk Mitigation There are risk appetite metrics set against the creditworthiness of reinsurers and concentration risk these are monitored prior to finalisation of any contract and on an ongoing basis to ensure that it remains in line with our risk appetite.
As part of our supplier management process, credit exposures to third parties are regularly monitored and controlled.
Investments bearing credit risk, and cash and cash equivalents, are summarised below, together with an analysis by credit rating as at the reporting date: As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Derivative financial instruments 1.1 0.1 Debt securities 502.2 587.1 Deposits with credit institutions 372.1 209.3 Cash at bank and in hand 46.6 25.5 Investments bearing credit risk and cash and cash equivalents 922.0 822.0 AAA 427.7 300.9 AA 194.5 204.8 A 195.8 155.5 BBB 100.4 94.0 Below BBB or not rated 3.6 66.8 Investments bearing credit risk and cash and cash equivalents 922.0 822.0 For a widening of 100 basis points in credit spreads across the entire credit quality curve the profit before tax for the period would decrease by 5.0m 2016: 5.0m, reflecting the reduction in fair value on assets designated as FVTPL, and the impact on equity would be a decrease by 12.6m 2016: 7.4m.
Shares and other variable yield securities and units in unit trusts do not bear credit risk.
Cash and cash equivalents are A rated.
The analysis by credit rating illustrates a significant increase in credit quality over the period under review, with a higher proportion of assets rated AAA in 2017 compared to 2016 46% in 2017: 37% in 2016.
Insurance receivables due from policyholders and other debtors are not subject to credit rating and are not included in the table above.
Owing to the high number of individual policyholders through which the Group has minimal individual exposure, the overall risk of default to the Group is considered to be insignificant.
The Group regularly reviews the ageing and individual characteristics of the counterparties of insurance receivables and other debtors to manage credit risk and to ensure that impairments are made where necessary.
No credit limits were exceeded during the year, and no significant financial assets are past due but not impaired at the reporting date.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to realise investments and other assets in order to settle financial obligations when they fall due.
Key elements Liquidity risk Mitigation The Group continues to monitor its liquidity risk by considering the Groups operating cash flows, stressed for catastrophe scenarios, dividend payouts, liquidity strains and investment strategy to mitigate this risk.
Oversight of liquidity risk is undertaken by the Financial Risk Committee.
100 101 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 19.
Financial risk management objectives continued The amounts disclosed in the tables in relation to debt securities and borrowings include payments of both principal and interest: Less than Between 1 More than Carrying 1 year and 5 years 5 years Total value m m m m m Financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets At 31 December 2017 Derivative financial instruments 1.1 1.1 1.1 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 101.3 344.4 94.2 539.9 502.2 Deposits with credit institutions 372.1 372.1 372.1 Cash at bank and in hand 46.6 46.6 46.6 Loans and receivables including salvage and subrogation assets 291.5 8.5 300.0 300.0 Total excluding reinsurers share of outstanding claims 812.6 352.9 94.2 1,259.7 1,222.0 Reinsurers share of outstanding claims 66.6 174.5 95.7 336.8 336.8 Total 879.2 527.4 189.9 1,596.5 1,558.8 Financial and insurance liabilities At 31 December 2017 Borrowings 8.4 42.2 129.2 179.8 123.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.2 0.2 Insurance and other payables and social security and other taxes 58.5 58.5 58.5 Financial and tax liabilities 67.1 42.2 129.2 238.5 181.8 Claims outstanding 317.4 365.1 116.4 798.9 798.9 Unearned premium reserve 273.5 100.3 8.4 382.2 382.2 Financial and insurance liabilities 658.0 507.6 254.0 1,419.6 1,362.9 Less than Between 1 More than Carrying 1 year and 5 years 5 years Total value m m m m m Financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets At 31 December 2016 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 0.1 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 180.9 339.7 113.5 634.1 587.1 Deposits with credit institutions 209.3 209.3 209.3 Cash at bank and in hand 25.5 25.5 25.5 Loans and receivables including salvage and subrogation assets 230.6 8.1 238.7 238.7 Total excluding reinsurers share of outstanding claims 646.4 347.8 113.5 1,107.7 1,060.7 Reinsurers share of outstanding claims 18.4 103.8 148.9 271.1 271.1 Total 664.8 451.6 262.4 1,378.8 1,331.8 Financial and insurance liabilities At 31 December 2016 Borrowings 8.4 33.8 150.3 192.5 122.8 Derivative financial instruments 1.6 1.6 1.6 Insurance and other payables and social security and other taxes 39.6 39.6 39.6 Financial and tax liabilities 49.6 33.8 150.3 233.7 164.0 Claims outstanding 249.7 283.4 139.8 672.9 672.9 Unearned premium reserve 217.0 83.6 8.2 308.8 308.8 Financial and insurance liabilities 516.3 400.8 298.3 1,215.4 1,145.7 Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 19.
Financial risk management objectives continued d Capital management and regulation The Group maintains a capital structure consistent with the Groups risk profile and the regulatory market requirements of its business.
The Groups objectives in managing its capital are: to match the profile of its assets and liabilities, taking account of the risk inherent in the business: to satisfy the requirements of its policyholders and regulators: to maintain financial and capital strength to support growth: and to retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity and access to a range of capital markets.
Solvency II is the solvency framework implemented on 1 January 2016 as the capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry.
It established a set of EU-wide capital requirements and risk management standards with the aim of increasing protection for policyholders.
The Group is regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA on both a Group basis and, for the Groups principal underwriter, esure Insurance Limited, on a solo basis.
The Board has considered the risk appetite of the Group as part of the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment process under Solvency II.
The Board believes an appropriate level of capital coverage of its Solvency Capital Requirement SCR to be in the region of 130%150%.
The capital surplus above the SCR provides sufficient headroom to absorb adverse capital events and should enable the Group to continue to meet its regulatory capital requirements.
As expected, the Group has operated in the middle to upper end of the range, providing flexibility to fund further profitable growth.
The Groups dividend policy is to target a base dividend of 50% of profit after tax and enhance the base dividend with a further special dividend, if the Group has sufficient capital and distributable reserves, after allowing for an appropriate level of capital coverage of the Groups SCR and future growth opportunities.
The Board remains committed to returning excess capital to shareholders where it does not believe it can utilise retained capital for further profitable growth.
Refer to page 14 for further information about the Groups draft and unaudited 31 December 2017 Solvency II capital position.
e Fair value estimation In accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement financial instruments reported at fair value and revalued properties have been categorised into a fair value measurement hierarchy as follows: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 Inputs to Level 1 fair values are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets.
An active market is a market in which transactions for the asset occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices Level 2.
Fair value measurements that are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, if all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, would result in the instrument being included in Level 2.
The majority of assets classified as Level 2 are over-the-counter corporate bonds, where trades are less frequent owing to the nature of the assets.
Inputs used in pricing the Groups Level 2 assets include: quoted prices for similar i. e. not identical assets in active market: quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary among market makers, or in which little information is released publicly: inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation: and for forward exchange contracts, the use of observable forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.
The Groups policy, should there be a change to the valuation techniques or level of activity in the market in which that asset is traded, is to transfer the asset between levels effective from the beginning of the reporting period.
In line with the requirements of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, the Group classifies all debt securities as Level 2 assets with the exception of Government backed securities which are classified as Level 1 unless they are illiquid.
Following a review, the liquidity funds held by the Group have been reclassified from Level 2 to Level 1 in both the current year and the comparatives.
102 103 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 19.
Financial risk management objectives continued e Fair value estimation continued Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3 Unobservable inputs have been used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset at the measurement date or market information for the inputs to any valuation models.
As such, unobservable inputs reflect assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
The Group held Level 3 AFS financial assets of 4.1m as at 31 December 2017 2016: 3.2m, representing an investment in an unquoted equity investment which has been valued using a discounted cash flow valuation model.
Under IFRS 13, land and buildings with a carrying value of 13.6m 2016: 12.9m are classified as Level 3 assets.
The valuers opinion of fair value was primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms length terms.
No sensitivity analysis has been performed due to the nature of the valuation.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value: Total fair Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value m m m m At 31 December 2017 Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 1.1 1.1 Equity securities 49.8 49.8 Debt securities 63.2 97.0 160.2 Deposits with credit institutions 372.1 372.1 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 485.1 98.1 583.2 Debt securities 141.3 200.7 342.0 Unquoted equity securities 4.1 4.1 Total AFS financial assets 141.3 200.7 4.1 346.1 Land and buildings 13.6 13.6 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.2 Total financial liabilities reported at fair value 0.2 0.2 Total fair Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value m m m m At 31 December 2016 Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Equity securities 39.3 39.3 Debt securities 106.9 287.6 394.5 Deposits with credit institutions 209.3 209.3 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 355.5 287.7 643.2 Debt securities 107.1 85.5 192.6 Unquoted equity securities 3.2 3.2 Total AFS financial assets 107.1 85.5 3.2 195.8 Land and buildings 12.9 12.9 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 1.6 1.6 Total financial liabilities reported at fair value 1.6 1.6 Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 20.
REINSURANCE ASSETS AND INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES 20.1.
Insurance Risk Insurance risk arises from the inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insured events.
These would include significant weather-related events and personal injury claims.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall underwriting strategy and defining the Risk Appetite, with monitoring delegated to the Pricing Committee.
The Group uses excess of loss reinsurance contracts to mitigate insurance risk, essentially by reducing exposure to large individual claims or aggregated losses from single events.
Underwriting and pricing risk The Group underwrites general insurance business for private cars and homes in mainland Britain and the associated additional insurance products.
The book consists of a large number of individual policies spread across the whole geographic area which helps to minimise concentration risk, especially in terms of weather-related risks.
As well as pricing, the Group has additional controls in place to segment the market and target those segments it wishes to underwrite.
Further systems and controls are in place to mitigate application fraud risk.
The Group has systems and management information in place to continually monitor underwriting performance and pricing adequacy through the Pricing Committee.
Claims management risk The Group employs a variety of strategies to ensure the correct claims are paid in a timely manner and reserve provisions made on a case-by-case basis to reflect the Groups future liabilities.
These include: UK-based claims centres, with over 700 specialists: well resourced and expertly trained staff benefit from image and workflow technology to control paper flow and procedures to enhance efficiency and effectiveness: its own network of motor repairers and dedicated teams offering an extensive range of services directly to not at fault third parties to efficiently control credit hire cost and legal fees.
Over 90% of accidental damage claims are settled through the repair network: and comprehensive anti-fraud strategies are in place to check both fraudulent claims and new business applications.
Reinsurance The Group purchases reinsurance as a risk transfer mechanism to mitigate risks that are outside the Groups appetite for individual claim or event exposure and to reduce the volatility caused by large individual and accumulation losses.
By doing so, the Group protects its capital and the underwriting result of each line of business.
Currently the Group has in place non-proportional excess of loss reinsurance programmes for its Motor and Home underwriting activities.
The purpose of these programmes is to provide cover for both individual large losses, for Motor and Home, and accumulation losses arising from natural and other catastrophe events for Home.
Motor and Home reinsurance treaties are in place covering all years in which the Group has underwritten policies in each line of business.
The Groups Motor reinsurance programme was renewed on 1 July 2017 and subsequently extended for six months to the end of 2018: Layer Placement Placement Placement 1 January 2017 to 1 July 2017 to 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2017 30 June 2018 31 December 2018 1m x 1m 100% 85% 100% Unlimited x 2m 100% 100% 100% The like-for-like cost increase of the programme renewed on 1 July 2017 was 33%, equating to an increase of 10 per vehicle, as a consequence of the change in the Ogden discount rate in February 2017 from 2.5% to minus 0.75%.
The Home reinsurance programme was renewed on 1 July 2017 with no material changes to the programme.
The Groups reinsurance programmes are reviewed on an annual basis and capital modelling is used to identify the most appropriate structure and risk retention profile, taking into account the Groups business objective of minimising volatility and the prevailing cost and availability of reinsurance in the market.
Counterparty credit risk is a key consideration when the Group enters into reinsurance treaties.
See note 19.3 b for more detail.
104 105 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 20.
REINSURANCE ASSETS AND INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES CONTINUED 20.1.
Insurance Risk continued Reserving risk Reserving risk is defined as the uncertainty regarding either the current level of reserves or the payment distribution over their lifetime.
The Group analyses and projects historical claims development data and uses a number of actuarial techniques to both test and forecast claims provisions.
In addition, the Group also provides data to external actuaries who assess the adequacy of the Groups claims provisions.
Apart from historical analysis, the Group also takes into account changes in risk profile and underwriting policy conditions, changes in legislation or regulation and changes in other external factors.
The ultimate costs and expenses of the claims for which these reserves are held are subject to a number of material uncertainties.
As time passes between the reporting of a claim and the final settlement of the claim, circumstances can change that may require established reserves to be adjusted either upwards or downwards.
Factors such as changes in the legal environment, results of litigation, propensity of personal injury claims, changes in medical and care costs, and costs of vehicle and home repairs can all substantially impact overall costs and expenses of claims, and cause a material divergence from the bases and assumptions on which the reserves were calculated.
Claims subject to PPOs are an area of uncertainty relating to the claims provision at 31 December 2017.
For known PPOs and claims which have been identified as potential PPO awards, cash flow projections are carried out in order to estimate an ultimate cost on a gross and net of reinsurance basis.
The cash flow projections are undertaken on a discounted basis.
The total net claims provision recognised for PPOs and potential PPOs in the consolidated statement of financial position represents less than 5% of net claims outstanding at 31 December 2017.
In the context of the Groups approach to the mitigation and management of underwriting risk, its reinsurance programme including its approach to mitigating counterparty credit risk and the Groups prudent approach to reserving for potential PPOs, the risk of an adverse development of the Groups reserves for PPO claims is not considered to be significant.
The Groups policy is to hold sufficient provisions, including those to cover claims which have been incurred but not reported IBNR, to meet all liabilities as they fall due.
Apart from that part of the provisions relating to PPOs, claims provisions are not discounted.
The Directors remain satisfied that the outstanding claims reserves included in these financial statements provide an appropriate margin over projected ultimate claims costs.
Analysis of recognised amounts As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Gross Claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling expenses 798.9 672.9 Unearned premiums 415.6 329.4 Total insurance liabilities, gross 1,214.5 1,002.3 Recoverable from reinsurers Claims outstanding 336.8 271.1 Unearned premiums 33.4 20.6 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 370.2 291.7 Net Claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling expenses 462.1 401.8 Unearned premiums 382.2 308.8 Total insurance liabilities, net 844.3 710.6 Due within one year gross 590.8 546.4 Due in more than one year gross 623.7 455.9 Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 20.
REINSURANCE ASSETS AND INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES CONTINUED 20.2.
Analysis of recognised amounts continued As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Reinsurance assets Reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 370.2 291.7 Total assets arising from reinsurance contracts 370.2 291.7 Expected to be recovered within one year 67.1 39.0 Expected to be recovered in more than one year 303.1 252.7 Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid by the Group on the contracts that are reinsured are included in insurance and other receivables note 21.
No reinsurance assets have been impaired.
Claims outstanding and claims handling expenses are shown before deducting amounts in respect of salvage and subrogation.
As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Net claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling 462.1 401.8 Salvage and subrogation recoveries 47.7 40.5 Net claims outstanding and claims handling expenses 414.4 361.3 20.3.
Sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in assumptions The following table shows the impact of a 1% variation in the loss ratio on profit or loss and shareholders equity after tax as at 31 December 2017: Accident year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net loss ratio 85% 95% 79% 61% 68% 69% 79% 79% 78% 76% Impact of 1% variation m 3.4 4.2 3.7 3.7 3.9 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.5 5.5 The impact is stated net of reinsurance and tax at the current rate.
106 107 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 20.
REINSURANCE ASSETS AND INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES CONTINUED 20.4.
Claims development tables The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Groups ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims.
Tables a and b illustrate how the Groups estimate of total claims incurred for each accident year has developed over the past ten years, including a reconciliation to the claims liability reported in the consolidated balance sheet.
esure Group plc acquired esure Holdings Limited on 11 February 2010.
The estimated claims disclosed in the tables prior to the date of acquisition are those of esure Holdings Limited.
Table c expresses the development of net incurred claims by reference to the loss ratio for each accident year over the past ten years.
REINSURANCE ASSETS AND INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES CONTINUED 20.5.
Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets a Claims recognised in the financial statements and claims handling expenses The movements in claims recognised, including claims handling expenses, both gross and net of reinsurance, are shown below: 2017 2016 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m At 1 January 619.9 271.1 348.8 567.6 209.3 358.3 Cash paid for claims settled in year 448.1 12.2 435.9 434.3 12.6 421.7 Change arising from: Current year claims 640.4 123.6 516.8 534.6 83.7 450.9 Prior year claims 72.6 45.7 26.9 48.0 9.3 38.7 Total at end of year 739.6 336.8 402.8 619.9 271.1 348.8 Provision for claims handling costs 11.6 11.6 12.5 12.5 Salvage and subrogation 47.7 47.7 40.5 40.5 Total reserve per statement of financial position 798.9 336.8 462.1 672.9 271.1 401.8 Claims incurred and claims handling expenses as disclosed in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income comprise: Year ended 31 Dec 2017 Year ended 31 Dec 2016 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Claims incurred 567.8 77.8 490.0 486.6 74.4 412.2 Claims handling expenses 24.7 24.7 22.9 22.9 Claims incurred and claims handling expenses 592.5 77.8 514.7 509.5 74.4 435.1 During 2017, the Group continued to experience favourable development of prior accident year reserves 26.9m reduction in prior year claims reserves net of reinsurance in the year ended 31 December 2017, but to a lesser extent than during the year ended 31 December 2016 38.7m reduction in prior year claims reserves net of reinsurance in the year ended 31 December 2016. b Provisions for unearned premiums The movements for the year, both gross and net of reinsurance, are summarised below: 2017 2016 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Unearned premium provision At beginning of the year 329.4 20.6 308.8 272.4 15.9 256.5 Premiums written in the year 820.2 69.0 751.2 655.0 47.8 607.2 Premiums earned in the year 734.0 56.2 677.8 598.0 43.1 554.9 At end of year 415.6 33.4 382.2 329.4 20.6 308.8 21.
INSURANCE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Insurance receivables 245.6 190.2 Prepayments and accrued income 7.0 6.9 Other debtors 6.7 8.0 Salvage and subrogation assets 47.7 40.5 Total insurance and other receivables 307.0 245.6 Insurance receivables and other debtors are financial assets classified as loans and receivables.
For more details see note 19, which includes the ageing of these loans and receivables.
The Directors believe the carrying value of these financial assets approximates their fair value.
All insurance receivables and other receivables are expected to be recovered within one year, aside from 8.5m of salvage and subrogation assets which are expected to be recovered in more than one year 2016: 8.1m.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 22.
DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS Movement in the deferred acquisition costs asset are as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Deferred acquisition costs At 1 January 37.8 25.3 Movement during the period 7.1 12.5 At 31 December 44.9 37.8 23.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 46.6 25.5 Total 46.6 25.5 24.
INSURANCE AND OTHER PAYABLES As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Insurance payables 26.0 17.1 Accrued expenses 19.3 22.6 Social security and other taxes 32.5 22.5 Deferred income 18.9 15.1 Total insurance and other payables 96.7 77.3 Insurance payables and accrued expenses principally comprise amounts outstanding for suppliers and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for invoiced trade purchases is 21.0 days 2016: 21.7 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of insurance and other payables approximates their fair value.
All insurance and other payables are expected to be settled within one year, aside from Government grants.
Included within deferred income is 0.1m in Government grants 2016: 0.2m.
This is recognised as income over the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Scottish Executive Grants have been received by the Group based on two factors: expenditure on fixed assets and the creation of new jobs.
In order for the Group to avoid repayment of the grants received, the new jobs created in order to meet the grant conditions must remain in existence for a period of at least five years.
110 111 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 25.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The following are the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior periods.
The analysis of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities is as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Deferred tax assets 1.9 0.7 Deferred tax liabilities 2.8 3.9 Net deferred tax liabilities 0.9 3.2 The net movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m At 1 January 3.2 11.6 Income statement expense in respect of continuing operations note 14 1.5 0.2 Income statement credit in respect of discontinued operations 2.5 Effect of change in tax rate 0.1 0.3 Demerger of Gocompare.
com note 12 5.7 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.9 0.3 At 31 December 0.9 3.2 The deferred tax rate used is 20.35% 2016: 19.91%.
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Deferred acquisition Share-based costs payments Total m m m Deferred tax assets Brought forward as at 1 January 2016 0.2 0.8 1.0 Charged credited to the income statement on continuing operations 0.1 0.3 0.2 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2016 0.3 0.4 0.7 Brought forward as at 1 January 2017 0.3 0.4 0.7 Charged credited to the income statement on continuing operations 0.5 0.7 0.2 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 1.0 1.0 At 31 December 2017 0.2 2.1 1.9 There is an unrecognised deferred tax asset on land and buildings of 2.0m at 31 December 2017 2016: 2.0m for which there is insufficient likelihood that future taxable gains will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED Accelerated Claims capital Intangible equalisation AFS allowances assets reserve reserve Total m m m m m Deferred tax liabilities Brought forward as at 1 January 2016 0.6 9.5 2.5 0.0 12.6 Demerger of Gocompare.
com note 12 0.0 5.7 5.7 Charged credited to the income statement on continuing operations 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.0 0.5 Credited to the income statement on discontinued operations 0.0 2.5 2.5 Effect of change in tax rate on continuing operations 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2016 0.7 1.1 1.8 0.3 3.9 Brought forward as at 1 January 2017 0.7 1.1 1.8 0.3 3.9 Charged credited to the income statement on continuing operations 0.3 0.7 0.3 0.0 1.3 Effect of change in tax rate on continuing operations 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2017 0.5 0.4 1.5 0.4 2.8 26.
SHARE CAPITAL AND OTHER RESERVES Capital Ordinary Share redemption Other shares premium reserve reserves Total m m m m m At 1 January 2016 0.3 44.0 44.9 1.0 90.2 Issue of share capital 0.0 1.4 1.4 Fair value movements on AFS assets 1.9 1.9 Tax relating to fair value movements on AFS assets 0.3 0.3 Fair value movements on land and buildings 0.3 0.3 Tax relating to fair value movements on land and buildings 0.0 0.0 At 31 December 2016 0.3 45.4 44.9 2.9 93.5 Issue of share capital 0.0 0.4 0.4 Fair value movements on AFS assets 1.5 1.5 Tax relating to fair value movements on AFS assets 0.1 0.1 Fair value movements on land and buildings 0.8 0.8 Tax relating to fair value movements on land and buildings 0.0 0.0 At 31 December 2017 0.3 45.8 44.9 5.1 96.1 During the year ended 31 December 2017, 226,724 ordinary shares of 1 12 pence were issued by the Group for 0.4m 31 December 2016: 1,063,991 ordinary shares of 1 12 pence were issued by the Group for 1.4m.
The authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of esure Group plc as at 31 December 2017 was 418,143,596 ordinary shares of 1 12 pence each 31 December 2016: 417,916,872 ordinary shares of 1 12 pence each.
The shares have full voting and dividend rights.
No shares are held in Treasury.
The esure Employee Benefit Trust held 25,000 ordinary shares as at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: nil and the Trustees waived their rights to dividend payments.
112 113 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 26.
SHARE CAPITAL AND OTHER RESERVES CONTINUED During the year ended 31 December 2017, 1.5m was credited to other comprehensive income in respect of fair value movements on an AFS financial asset 31 December 2016: 1.9m.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, 0.8m was credited to other comprehensive income in respect of fair value movements on land and buildings 31 December 2016: 0.3m.
The capital redemption reserve was created during the year ended 31 December 2013 for a 44.9m share repurchase.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
An award will not be granted under the executive plans if it would cause the number of shares allocated in the ten calendar year period following flotation to exceed 5% of the ordinary share capital in issue at that time.
Similarly, an award will not be granted under the employee plans if it would cause the number of shares allocated in the ten calendar year period following flotation to exceed 10% of the ordinary share capital in issue at that time.
Holders of these awards other than the three-year and five-year SAYE schemes will receive dividend equivalents in respect of the dividends that would have been paid between grant date and vesting date for ordinary shares which vest under their awards, calculated on a basis and paid in a manner to be determined by the Remuneration Committee before the awards vest.
Details of the share-based compensation plans and their financial effect are set out below.
a Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan PSP and the Strategic Leadership Plan SLP are discretionary share plans for the Groups Executive and Senior management.
Awards have been made under the PSP and SLP as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 SLP SLP PSP Number Number Number granted granted granted Stuart Vann 543,185 571,807 321,155 Darren Ogden 309,258 322,970 275,275 Senior management 1,506,128 1,318,574 1,440,107 Under the schemes, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon continued employment by the Group and achieving predefined performance conditions associated with the Groups earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return TSR.
For the 2015 Directors scheme, two-thirds of each award is based on EPS performance and one-third on TSR performance with the two measures applying independently to different parts of each award.
For the 2015 Senior management scheme, 50% of the awards are subject to the EPS and TSR performance conditions i. e. one-third and one-sixth respectively and 50% of the awards are subject only to continued employment until vesting.
For the 2016 and 2017 schemes, for both Directors and Senior management, 75% of the awards are subject to an absolute TSR performance condition, with the remaining 25% of the awards subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
Further information on the share-based payments, including the performance conditions and changes in the year, is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
2017 SLP awards 2016 SLP awards 2015 PSP awards 20 March 2017 date 14 June 2016 date 25 March 2015 date Grant dates employee joined employee joined employee joined Number of shares initially granted 2,358,571 2,213,351 2,036,537 Number outstanding at 1 January 2017 Nil 2,213,351 1,733,408 Forfeited lapsed during the year 9,947 292,744 153,125 33,278 for good 11,494 for good leavers at leavers at Vested during the period Groups discretion Groups discretion Exercised during the period 33,278 11,494 Average exercise price during the year nil nil nil Number outstanding at 31 December 2017 2,315,346 1,920,607 1,568,789 Contractual life 3 years 3 years 3 years Exercise price for remaining awards nil nil nil Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 27.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED b Deferred Bonus Plan As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Policy on page 49, at least 30% of the annual bonus awarded to Directors and Senior management is deferred into an award of shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, with the deferred portion vesting in equal thirds over a three-year period.
Awards have been made under the plan as follows: Year ended 31 Dec 2017 DBP Number granted and outstanding at 31 Dec 2017 Stuart Vann 67,015 Darren Ogden 45,422 Senior management 109,843 Valuation of SLP and DBP awards As part of the awards are subject to a share price-related TSR performance condition, the fair value of these awards was estimated using a Stochastic Monte-Carlo model.
The remaining awards are not subject to a share price-related performance condition EPS and the fair value of the awards was estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models were: 2017 SLP awards Share price at grant 2.40 Exercise price nil Volatility % p. a. calculated on a weekly basis over a historical period in line with the expected term of the awards at the date of grant 27.4% Dividend yield % p. a. nil Risk-free rate % 0.15% Expected life 3 years The inputs were later adjusted as appropriate for those awards granted to employees upon joining the Group.
The total estimated fair value of the 2017 SLP options at the dates of grant was 2.9m 2016 SLP awards: 1.8m: 2015 PSP awards: 3.8m.
Please refer to the Groups 2016 and 2015 Annual Reports for the inputs to the models associated with the 2016 and 2015 awards.
2016 senior management awards in addition to the SLP During the year ended 31 December 2016, a new senior management hire was granted 46,581 shares without performance conditions with an estimated fair value of 1.93 at the date of grant.
51% of these awards vested on 10 November 2017 when the share price was 2.60, and the remainder are due to vest on 10 November 2018 dependent on continuing employment by the Group.
The Remuneration Committee made the awards to compensate for remuneration that was forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, a new senior management hire was granted 53,561 shares without performance conditions with an estimated fair value of 2.01 at the date of grant.
The awards are due to vest on 10 November 2018 dependent on continuing employment by the Group.
2014 senior management awards in addition to the PSP During the year ended 31 December 2014, a new senior management hire was granted 171,621 shares without performance conditions with an estimated fair value of 2.22 at the date of grant.
46% of these awards vested on 29 May 2015 when the share price was 2.59, 37% vested on 31 May 2016 when the share price was 2.84 and the remainder vested on 31 May 2017 when the share price was 2.71.
114 115 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 27.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED b Deferred Bonus Plan continued Restructuring Award Plan RAP RAP awards were made to Directors and senior management during 2016.
The purpose of the RAP was to compensate for the significant opportunity lost under outstanding unvested incentive arrangements at the point of the demerger as a result of any reduced market value of the Group and the reduced size of the Group following the demerger, as well as to reward selected employees of the esure Group with share-based awards in recognition of the strategic development of the Gocompare.
com business since its acquisition and for the successful completion of the demerger and Admission.
Where share awards preserve rather than enhance the benefit to the award holders, an expense is not recognised for that element of the award.
The RAP awards totalled 4.0m, of which 2.2m was recognised as an expense over the 12-month vesting period, the remaining 1.8m not being recognised.
Year ended 31 Dec 2017 Number granted and vested Stuart Vann 777,524 Darren Ogden 518,349 Senior management 777,522 Under the scheme, the shares vested on 10 November 2017, when the share price was 2.60.
Refer to the Groups 2016 Annual Report for the inputs to the model associated with the RAP awards.
c Save As You Earn SAYE schemes The Group has a three-year SAYE scheme and a five-year SAYE scheme.
Under the 2017 scheme, the Groups employees are offered the opportunity to save between 5 and 500 each month in order to purchase shares in either three or five years time at an exercise price at a 20% discount on the share price at the date before invitations were issued to participate.
The details of these awards are set out below: 2017 SAYE scheme 2016 SAYE scheme 3-year scheme 5-year scheme 3-year scheme 5-year scheme Date of grant 1 September 2017 29 December 2016 Number of shares initially granted 465,832 65,135 1,568,640 142,889 Number outstanding at 1 January 2017 Nil Nil 1,568,190 142,889 Forfeited lapsed during the year 11,966 264 148,360 1,089 Vested for good leavers at Groups discretion during year 1,282 Number outstanding at 31 December 2017 453,866 64,871 1,419,674 141,800 Number exercisable at 31 December 2017 1,126 Average exercise price during the year 1.5972 Exercise price of outstanding awards 2.270 1.5972 2015 SAYE scheme 2014 SAYE scheme 3-year scheme 5-year scheme 3-year scheme 5-year scheme Date of grant 9 September 2015 3 September 2014 Number of shares initially granted 706,966 101,823 527,607 67,144 Number outstanding at 1 January 2017 380,275 21,649 223,993 22,866 Forfeited lapsed during the year 163,709 1,712 46,421 Exercised during the year 159,839 Vested for good leavers at Groups discretion during year 13,436 169 Number outstanding at 31 December 2017 203,130 19,768 22,866 Number exercisable at 31 December 2017 1,882 17,733 Average exercise price during the year 1.912 2.08 Exercise price of outstanding awards 1.912 2.08 Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 27.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED c Save As You Earn SAYE schemes continued 2013 SAYE scheme 3-year scheme 5-year scheme Date of grant 6 September 2013 Number of shares initially granted 1,083,748 176,260 Number outstanding at 1 January 2017 86,275 Number exercisable at 1 January 2017 39,976 Forfeited lapsed during the year 16,877 13,529 Exercised during the year 23,099 5,025 Number outstanding at 31 December 2017 67,721 Number exercisable at 31 December 2017 1,855 Average exercise price during the year 1.940 Exercise price of outstanding awards 1.940 Valuation of SAYE awards The fair values of the awards were estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models used to value the 2017 awards were: Scheme 3-year SAYE 5-year SAYE Share price at grant 2.735 2.735 Exercise price 2.2704 2.2704 Volatility % p. a.
4.90% 4.90% Risk-free rate % 0.27% 0.50% Expected life years 3.42 5.42 For the three-year scheme, the volatility has been based on the daily historical volatility of the Group over a period commensurate with the expected term.
For the five-year scheme, as the Group listed in 2013, there is insufficient share price data to measure the historical volatility over the expected term.
The historic volatility has therefore been calculated for the longest period for which trading activity is available with the historical volatility of similar entities following a comparable period in their lives being used to extend this period to the expected term.
Refer to the Groups 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013 Annual Reports for the inputs to the models associated with the 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013 awards.
d Financial effect of share-based payments made The total expense recognised for the year arising from the share-based payments above was 3.5m 2016: 2.4m.
All share-based payment transactions were accounted for as equity settled.
116 117 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 28.
COMMITMENTS a Pension capital commitments The Group contributes to a Group Personal Pension defined contribution scheme available to all staff, of which 1,466 employees participated in the scheme at 31 December 2017 2016: 1,451.
The pension cost charge for the period represents contributions payable by the Group to the scheme and amounted to 2.6m 2016: 2.2m.
There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at either the beginning or end of the financial year.
b Capital commitments The Group has entered into the following contracts for assets which have not been provided for at the balance sheet date: As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Fixed asset acquisitions contracted for but not provided in these consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.3 Investment commitments see note 19 120.0 c Operating lease commitments where the Group is a lessee The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Not later than 1 year 2.4 2.3 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 15.0 13.7 Later than 5 years 26.3 30.1 Total minimum lease payments payable 43.7 46.1 d Operating lease commitments where the Group is a lessor The future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Not later than 1 year 0.1 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 0.0 Later than 5 years Total minimum lease payments receivable 0.1 29.
GROUP SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES esure Group plc has the following principal subsidiaries as at 31 December 2017: Class of shares Held directly Percentage Country of incorporation held Principal activity or indirectly held esure Insurance Limited England and Wales Ordinary General insurance Indirect 100% Administration and esure Services Limited England and Wales Ordinary management Indirect 100% esure Holdings Limited England and Wales Ordinary Holding company Indirect 100% esure Property Limited England and Wales Ordinary Property investment Indirect 100% esure Finance Limited England and Wales Ordinary Holding company Direct 100% esure Property Management Limited England and Wales Ordinary Non-trading Indirect 100% esure S. L. U. Spain Ordinary Non-trading Indirect 100% esure broker Limited England and Wales Ordinary Insurance intermediary Indirect 100% The registered office of all of the subsidiaries above, apart from esure S. L. U. is The Observatory, Reigate, Surrey RH2 0SG.
The registered office of esure S. L. U. is Ronda Sant Pere 17, 2 plant, Barcelona, Spain.
All of the subsidiaries above are included in the consolidation of esure Group plc.
esure Property Management Limited and esure S. L. U. are dormant and are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 to prepare annual financial statements.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 30.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The following transactions took place with related parties during the year: a Transactions with shareholders The following transactions took place with shareholders and related entities: One of the Directors has a beneficial part-ownership interest in a company which leased office space from the Group.
The company also charged the Group for travel expenses incurred by employees of the Group.
Eight of the Directors hold shares in Gocompare.
com post demerger, which pays commissions and charges fees for introducing insurance business.
One of the Directors had a beneficial part-ownership interest in a restaurant which has been used by the Group for corporate events and entertaining purposes.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 m m Value of income expense for the year: Lease of office space net of travel expenses charged 0.1 0.2 Net fees charged by Gocompare.
com 10.2 1.6 Restaurants 0.0 0.1 Total expense for the year 10.1 1.5 Amount receivable payable at the year end: Lease of office space net of travel expenses charged 0.1 Net fees payable to Gocompare.
com 0.4 0.7 Restaurants 0.0 Total amount payable at the year end 0.4 0.6 b Compensation of key management personnel The key management personnel are considered to be the Directors.
Please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report for more details.
