Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies Going concern Authorisation of financial statements The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The consolidated financial statements of Ibstock plc, which has affect its future development, performance and position are set a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, for the year out in the business review on pages 16 and 17.
The financial ended 31 December 2017 were authorised for issue in position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 5 March 2018. borrowing facilities are described in the Directors Report on 84 The balance sheet was signed on behalf of the Board by and 85.
In addition, Note 22 to the financial statements includes W Sheppard and K Sims.
the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its Ibstock plc is a public company limited by shares, which is financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures incorporated and domiciled in England whose shares are publicly to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The registered office is Leicester Road, Ibstock, Leicestershire LE67 6HS and the company registration number The Group regularly reviews market and financial forecasts, and is 09760850. has reviewed its trading prospects in its key markets.
As a result it believes its trading performance will demonstrate continued Basis of preparation improvement in the coming periods, and that liquidity will The consolidated financial statements of Ibstock plc for the year remain strong.
ended 31 December 2017 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as The Board has reviewed the latest forecasts of the Group and adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance considered the obligations of the financing arrangements.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Given the continued strong liquidity of the Group the Board has concluded that the going concern basis of accounting of its These financial statements are prepared on a going concern financial statements is appropriate.
basis, under the historical cost convention.
In addition, see the Groups Viability Statement set out on The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling page 42. and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except where otherwise indicated.
The significant accounting policies are New standards, amendments and interpretations set out below.
not yet adopted A number of new standards and amendments to standards and Basis of consolidation and acquisition accounting interpretations are effective for periods beginning after 1 January The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 2017, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated statements of Ibstock plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December financial statements.
None of these is expected to have a 2017.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent Group, except the following set out below: accounting policies.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profit and losses resulting from IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, intra-Group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains liabilities, and a new credit loss model for calculating impairment control and cease to be consolidated from the date on which the to financial assets.
The standard is effective for accounting Group no longer retains control.
Details of all the subsidiaries of periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, which is the year the Group are given in Note 28. ending 31 December 2018 for the Group.
Based on the work carried out to date the Group does not expect any material The subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
changes to its financial statements as a result of the standard.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers deals with and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on information to users of financial statements about the nature, which control is transferred to the Group.
They are amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
from an entitys contracts with customers.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a business combinations by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments obtain the benefits from the good or service.
The standard issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities and related interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, which is the fair value at acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration year ending 31 December 2018 for the Group.
The Group has transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets completed an assessment of the impact of IFRS 15 and acquired is recognised as goodwill.
If the consideration determined that the standard will have no material impact on transferred is less than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the Groups financial reporting.
negative goodwill arises and is recognised directly in the income statement.
An estimation of the fair value is made for contingent consideration in accordance with IFRS 3 at the time of a business combination.
Where there is a contractual obligation to settle the liability in cash based on events within the Companys control this contingent consideration is accounted for as a credit to equity within other reserves and is not subsequently adjusted.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 98 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information IFRS 16, Leases sets out the principles for the recognition, b Transactions and balances measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional parties to a contract, i. e. the lessee and the lessor.
IFRS 16 currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease transactions or valuation where items are re-measured.
Foreign payments and a right of use asset for virtually all lease contracts.
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019.
A company can choose transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates to apply IFRS 16 before that date but only if it also applies IFRS 15 of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
On adoption, the currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when Group will recognise a right of use asset and a lease liability deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow based on the net present value of the payments required under hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
The Group does each of its leases.
The operating lease charge, currently not currently undertake such hedges.
Foreign exchange gains recognised in EBITDA, will be replaced by the depreciation of and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash the right of use asset and interest on the lease liability.
As well equivalents are presented in the income statement within net as a change to the line items in the income statement, it is also finance costs.
All other foreign exchange gains and losses are expected to change the profile of the net charge recognised in presented in the income statement.
the income statement over the lease term.
Borrowing costs The Group continues to assess the full impact of IFRS 16, Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred, except for borrowing however, the impact will depend on the facts and circumstances costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or at the point of adoption and upon the transition choices adopted.
production of a qualifying asset that necessarily takes a The Groups current operating lease commitments are disclosed substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use, in in Note 26. which case they are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when expenditures There are no other IFRSs, Annual improvements or IFRIC for the asset and borrowing costs are being incurred and the interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected activities to prepare the asset for its intended use are in progress.
to have a material impact on the Group and there are no current Where significant, borrowing costs are capitalised up to the date plans to early adopt any of the above-mentioned standards.
when the project is completed and ready for its intended use.
Segment reporting There were no borrowing costs capitalised during the year.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
Property, plant and equipment The chief operating decision-maker CODM, who is responsible Property, plant and equipment is stated at the cost to the Group for allocating resources and assessing performance of the less depreciation.
The cost of property, plant and equipment operating segments, has been identified as the Chief Executive includes directly attributable costs.
Officer and Chief Finance Officer of the Group.
The CODM Depreciation is provided on the cost of all other assets except reviews the key profit measure, Adjusted EBITDA disaggregated assets in the course of construction and land, so as to write off by UK and US based on geographical location and the the cost, less residual value, on a straight-line basis over the organisational structure of the Group.
expected useful economic life of the assets concerned, as follows: Foreign currency translation Asset classification Useful life a Functional and presentation currency Land Not depreciated Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups Freehold buildings 2050 years entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic Plant, machinery and equipment 540 years environment in which the entity operates the functional Mineral reserves Amortised on a usage basis currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for mineral deposits with economic potential and is not capitalised.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations Evaluation expenditure relates to a detailed assessment of i. e. subsidiaries with a functional currency that is not Sterling deposits or other projects that have been identified as having are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the economic potential and in obtaining permissions to extract clay.
reporting date and their results are translated at the actual rates Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure within Mineral reserves prevailing at the date of the transactions or average rates, with a commences when there is a high degree of confidence that the reasonable approximation and the effect of fair value adjustment Group will determine that a project is commercially viable, i. e. the on the assets and liabilities are treated as part of the assets and project will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived liabilities of a foreign operation.
The currency translation risks, and therefore it is considered probable that future economic differences are recorded in the currency translation reserve within benefits will flow to the Group.
other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity in the currency translation reserve.
Mineral reserves may be declared for an undeveloped project before its commercial viability has been fully determined.
Evaluation costs may continue to be capitalised during the period between declaration of reserves and approval to extract clay as further work is undertaken in order to refine the development case to maximise the projects returns.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure are fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active reviewed for impairment by management.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities amortised on a usage basis.
greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans Useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash sheet date and revised where expectations are significantly and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
In such cases, the depreciation charge for current and future periods is adjusted accordingly.
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade-date the date on which the Group commits to The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets carried at fair Intangible assets value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, Separately acquired brands and non-contractual customer and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
relationships are shown at historical cost.
Brands and customer Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash relationships have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards straight-line method to allocate the cost of brands and customer of ownership.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss relationships over their estimated useful lives as follows: are subsequently carried at fair value.
Asset classification Useful life Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortised Brands 1050 years cost using the effective interest method.
No financial assets are Customer relationships 1020 years held for trading other than derivatives.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis Trade and other receivables of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary course lives of three to five years.
If collection is expected in one year or less, they are For further details see Note 12. classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as noncurrent assets.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation such as Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and brands and non-contractual customer relationships and property, subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever interest method, less provision for impairment.
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount right to offset the recognised amounts a nd there is an intention to exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability higher of an assets fair value less costs of disposal and value in simultaneously.
The legally enforceable right must not be use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency independent cash inflows cash-generating units.
Prior or bankruptcy of the Company or the counterparty.
impairments of non-financial assets other than goodwill are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.
Cash and cash equivalents In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents Inventories includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its three months or less and bank overdrafts if any.
In the present location and condition.
Raw materials, consumables and consolidated balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within goods for resale are recognised on a weighted average cost borrowings in current liabilities.
basis, while work in progress and finished goods are held at direct cost and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Trade payables Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if Financial assets payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating Classification cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as The Group classifies its financial assets in the following non-current liabilities.
categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the purpose for which Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 100 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Borrowings Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income.
The net Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of directly interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net attributable transaction costs incurred.
All other costs are balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan expensed as incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried assets, taking account of any changes in the defined benefit at amortised cost.
asset liability during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
This cost is included in interest expense in the Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group income statement.
has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
When the benefits of a defined benefit plan are changed or when the plan is curtailed, the change in the present value of the Finance cost on borrowings is treated as an expense in the defined benefit obligation arising that relates to the plan income statement, with the exception of interest costs incurred amendment or curtailment is recognised immediately in profit or on the financing of major projects, which are capitalised within loss on its occurrence.
Before determining the past service cost property, plant and equipment.
including curtailment gains or losses or a gain or loss on Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as settlement, the net defined benefit obligation asset is remeasured transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that using the current fair value of plan assets and current actuarial some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee assumptions including current market interest rates and other is deferred until the draw-down occurs.
To the extent there is no current market prices reflecting the benefits offered under the evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be plan before the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement.
drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience services and amortised over the period of the facility to which adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged it relates.
or credited in other comprehensive income in the period in which An exchange of debt instruments with substantially different terms they arise.
is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
Similarly, a publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a substantial modification of the terms of an existing financial liability mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial further payment obligations once the contributions have been liability and the recognition of a new financial liability.
The Group recognises contributions payable to defined Employee benefits contribution plans in exchange for employee services in employee The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including benefit expense.
both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
Provisions Pension obligations Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees recognised for future operating losses.
the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by defined contribution plan.
considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures and compensation.
expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually interest expense.
by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The restoration provision is to fund future obligations at a number The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined of sites that the Group is associated with and where the Group by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest has any constructive obligation to restore once it has fully utilised rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the site.
The restructuring provision covers current and former the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have employees who have ceased working on grounds of ill health and terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related is a liability payable to their normal retirement date.
relate to provisions for sites used for landfill and for onerous Where defined benefit schemes have a surplus, the surplus is contracts to cover the exposure that the Group has for both recognised if future economic benefits are available to the entity current property leases where the rent being paid is significantly in the form of a reduction in the future contributions or a right to higher than the current market rents and also vacant properties.
See Note 2 for the judgement made regarding the All of these provisions are discounted on an annual basis.
Provisions for dilapidations are recognised on a lease by lease The current service cost of the defined benefit plan is recognised basis and are based on the Groups best estimate of the likely in the income statement in employee benefit expense, except committed cash outflows.
where included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the Off-market rental provisions relate to leases acquired as part defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the of business combinations.
current year, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 101 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Taxation Revenue Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable for deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except goods supplied by the Group, exclusive of local sales tax and for tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive trade discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
income or directly in equity.
All of revenue is attributable to the principal activities of the Current tax is the expected tax payable or recoverable on the Group being the manufacture and sale of concrete products, taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted clay facing bricks and associated special shaped and fabricated or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any clay products.
adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards During the ordinary course of business, there are transactions of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, which is and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination may be usually on despatch of goods.
For bill and hold sales, in which uncertain.
The calculation of the tax charge therefore necessarily delivery is delayed at the buyers request but the buyer takes title involves a degree of estimation and judgement.
The tax liabilities and accepts billing, revenue is recognised when the buyer takes are based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due title, provided: a it is probable that delivery will be made: b the and tax assets are recognised on the basis of probable future item is on hand, identified and ready for delivery to the buyer recoverability.
This requires management to exercise judgement at the time the sale is recognised: c the buyer specifically based on their interpretation of tax laws and the likelihood of acknowledges the deferred delivery instructions: and d the usual settlement of tax liabilities or recoverability of tax assets.
To the payment terms apply.
Revenue is not recognised when there is extent that the final outcome differs from the estimates made, tax simply an intention to acquire or manufacture the goods in time adjustments may be required which could have a material impact for delivery.
on the tax charge and profit for the year in which such a Customer rebates determination is made.
Provisions for rebates to customers are based upon the terms Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the of individual contracts, generally coterminous with the Groups tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts financial year end, and are recorded in the same period as the included in the financial statements.
However, deferred tax related sales as a deduction from revenue.
The Group estimates liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition the provision for customer rebates based on the terms of each of goodwill: deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial agreement at the time the revenue is recognised.
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a Other income business combination that at the time of the transaction affects Other income is attributable to rental income from properties, neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Other expenses represent associated The amount of deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have expenses.
This is not deemed to be a principal activity of been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date the Group.
and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is Research and development realised or deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and Research and development expenditure is written off as incurred, liabilities are not subject to discounting.
except that development expenditure incurred on an individual A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is project is carried forward when its future recoverability can probable that future taxable profits will be available, against which reasonably be regarded as assured.
Any expenditure carried the temporary difference can be utilised.
forward is amortised in line with the expected future sales from the related project.
Research and development costs capitalised Deferred tax liabilities are provided on taxable temporary are not material.
differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements, except for deferred tax liabilities where Exceptional items the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will income statement, those material items of income and expense not reverse in the foreseeable future.
which, because of the nature and the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to Deferred tax assets are recognised on deductible temporary allow shareholders to understand better elements of financial differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates performance in the financial period, so as to assess better trends and joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable the in financial performance.
Further detail on exceptional items are temporary difference will reverse in the future and there is given within Note 5. sufficient taxable profit available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
The Directors believe that the use of Alternative Performance Measures APMs provides useful information for shareholders.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally These measures are consistent with how the underlying business enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax performance is measured internally.
Detailed descriptions of liabilities where these have been levied by the same tax authority APMs used throughout these financial statements are included on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities within Note 3. within the Group where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
APMs used by the Group are generally not defined under IFRSs and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
It is not intended that either adjusted measure is a substitute for, or superior to, statutory measurements.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 102 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Operating leases 2.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of The preparation of the financial statements requires management ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making these critical judgements and estimates, actual outcomes could be different.
Dividend distribution Dividend distributions to Ibstock plc shareholders are recognised The Group has identified the following critical accounting policies in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions dividends are approved in general meeting, or when paid in the are made and where actual results may differ from these case of an interim dividend.
estimates under different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect financial results or the financial position reported Assets held for sale in future periods.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale only if available for immediate sale in their present condition Estimates and a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed by within one year from the date of classification.
Such assets and management on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in disposal groups are measured at the lower of carrying amount the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future and fair value less the costs to sell.
Non-current assets classified period affected.
The areas involving significant risk resulting in as held for sale or that form part of a disposal group classified a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: Share-based payments Mineral reserves The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based Upon acquisition by Figgs Topco Limited on 26 February 2015, compensation plans, under which the entity receives services mineral reserves were recorded at their fair value.
The from employees as consideration for equity instruments for determination of the mineral reserves requires significant example, options or shares of the Group.
The fair value of the judgements and estimates to be applied, and these are reviewed employee services received in exchange for the grant of the regularly and updated.
equity instruments is recognised as an expense.
The total amount Factors such as the availability of geological and extraction to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the data, material performance and both the assessment of instruments granted: compliance with, and likelihood of extensions to, planning including any market performance conditions for example, permissions, all impact upon the determination of the Groups an entitys share price : estimates of its mineral reserves.
Managements valuations are based on the expected future usage of reserves using production excluding the impact of any service and non-market data, information from in-house geologists and input from performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, external consultants.
sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity Mineral reserves also have a direct impact on the assessment over a specified time period : and of the recoverability of asset carrying values reported in the including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, consolidated financial statements.
Estimates of mineral reserves the requirement for employees to save or holding shares for are also used to calculate depreciation charges for the Groups a specific period of time.
The impact of changes in minerals is dealt with prospectively by amortising the remaining carrying value of the At the end of each reporting year, the Group revises its estimates asset over the expected future production.
See Note 13 for details of the number of instruments that are expected to vest based on of the carrying value of the mineral reserves.
the non-market vesting conditions and service conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, Defined benefit pension schemes valuation of liabilities in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to The Groups accounting policy for defined benefit pension equity.
In addition, in some circumstances employees may schemes requires management to make judgements as to provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore the the nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit the expense during the year between service commencement schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and period and grant date.
assumptions about future returns on classes of scheme assets, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation rates, life For the equity-settled share-based payment transactions, the fair expectancy and other pensioner demographics.
value of the share instruments granted is derived from established option pricing models.
Further details on share-based payments The assumptions used may vary from year to year, which are set out in Note 25. would affect future net income and net assets.
Any differences between these assumptions and the actual outcome also affect future net income and net assets.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
These assumptions are subject to periodic review.
Note 20 describes the assumptions used together with an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
Judgements The below judgements made by management in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies have the most significant effect on the amounts recorded in the financial statements.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates 3.
Alternative performance measures continued Alternative Performance Measures APMs are disclosed within Impairment of intangible and non-current assets the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts where management Determining whether intangible and other non-current assets believes it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding are impaired requires judgement and estimation.
The Group of the financial performance of the Group.
Management uses periodically reviews intangible and non-current assets, for APMs in its own assessment of the Groups performance.
It is possible impairment when events or changes in circumstances not intended that APMs are a substitute for, or superior to, indicate, in managements judgement, that the carrying amount statutory measures.
None of the APMs are outlined within IFRS of an asset may not be recoverable.
Such indicating events would and they may not be comparable with similarly titled APMs used include a significant planned restructuring, a major change in by other companies.
market conditions or technology, expectations of future operating Exceptional items losses, or negative cash flows.
The Group presents items as exceptional on the face of the The Group did not record any impairment charges during the income statement, those items of income and expense which, year ended 31 December 2017 as managements judgement, because of the materiality, nature and or expected infrequency based on a rigorous assessment, was that there were no of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation indicators of impairment.
to allow shareholders to understand better elements of financial performance for the year, so as to facilitate comparison with A requirement for an impairment test also arises when a nonfuture years and to assess trends in financial performance.
current asset is classified as being held for sale, at which time it Details of all exceptional items are disclosed in Note 5. must be remeasured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Managements assessment was to retain Adjusted EBITDA all assets held for sale at their carrying value since this is Adjusted EBITDA is the earnings before interest, taxation, exceeded by the fair value less costs to sell.
depreciation and amortisation adjusted for exceptional items.
A full reconciliation is included at the foot of the Group Non-GAAP items consolidated statement of comprehensive income within the Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial financial statements.
statements where management believes it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance Adjusted EPS of the Group.
Management uses Adjusted EBITDA in its Adjusted EPS is the basic earnings per share adjusted for assessment of performance.
Adjusted EBITDA is the earnings exceptional items, amortisation and depreciation on fair value before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation adjusted uplifted assets and non-cash interest net of taxation at the for exceptional items.
A full reconciliation is included at the foot of Groups effective tax rate.
A full reconciliation is provided in the Group statement of comprehensive income within the Note 11. financial statements.
Net debt The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the Net debt is defined as the sum of cash and total borrowings at income statement, those material items of income and expense the balance sheet date.
Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the debt to Adjusted EBITDA as defined above.
events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow Return on capital employed shareholders to understand better elements of financial Return on capital employed ROCE is defined as earnings performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with before interest and taxation adjusted for exceptional items as a future periods and to assess trends in financial performance.
proportion of the average capital employed defined as net debt Exceptional items are disclosed in Note 5.
The reconciliation plus equity excluding the pension deficit surplus.
The average is of prior year statutory reported results for the year ended calculated using the year end balance and corresponding 31 December 2017 to the adjusted EBITDA referred to within preceding reported year end balance year end or interim.
this Annual Report and Accounts is included under the 2017 2016 Comprehensive Statement of Comprehensive Income and 000 000 described in Note 3.
Adjusted EBITDA 119,599 111,633 Defined benefit pension schemes surplus recognition In accounting for defined benefit plans, management is required Less depreciation 19,859 19,356 to make judgements in relation to the application of International Less amortisation 6,476 6,555 Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee guidance IFRIC 14 Adjusted earnings before taxation 93,264 85,722 and its applicability to Ibstock plc.
This judgement concerns the Groups ability to recognise an actuarial surplus notional surplus on the UK defined benefit pension scheme, should such a Average net debt 138,481 147,001 surplus notional surplus arise in future.
The Group has considered the application of this guidance, including proposed amendments Average equity 405,939 317,183 to IFRIC14 published as an exposure draft in June 2015.
In the Average pension 35,885 33,651 current year, in continuing to apply IFRIC 14, management has ceased to recognise an additional liability in respect of the Average capital employed 508,535 497,835 minimum funding obligation following the receipt of legal advice regarding the Groups ability to access a surplus should one ROCE 18.3% 17.2% exist in the pension scheme in the future.
Further detail of the Groups pension schemes is included within Note 20.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 104 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Cash conversion Cash conversion is the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA after movements in working capital less maintenance capital expenditure and sharebased payments, to adjusted EBITDA.
The calculation of the cash conversion ratio is set out within Table 1 of the Financial Review.
Constant currency Constant currency measures are used in managements description of performance within the Strategic Report.
Where used, constant currency figures translate all amounts for our US segment using the average US dollar rate for the year ended 31 December 2016 1:$1.34574.
Cash flow before major projects Cash flow before major capex is a key performance indicator of cash flow prior to capital expenditure on major projects.
This represents adjusted EBITDA plus share-based payment costs less cash flow on maintenance capital expenditure and adjusted for changes in working capital.
A reconciliation is provided on page 39 within the Financial Review.
Adjusted free cash flow Adjusted free cash flow represents cash flow before major projects defined above less expenditure on major projects and cash outflows for taxation, net interest costs and post-employment benefits.
Segment reporting As explained in Note 1, the management team considers the reportable segments to be the UK and the US.
The key Group performance measure is Adjusted EBITDA, as detailed below, which is earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation adjusted for exceptional items.
Transactions between segments are carried out at arms length.
No aggregation of segments has been applied.
Year ended 31 December 2017 UK US Unallocated Total 000 000 000 000 Clay revenue 265,358 88,994 354,352 Concrete revenue 97,231 97,231 Total revenue from external customers 362,589 88,994 451,583 Adjusted EBITDA 110,508 11,701 2,610 119,599 Pension closure costs see Note 5 211 211 Release of provision for contingent consideration see Note 5 1,740 1,740 EBITDA after exceptional items 112,037 11,701 2,610 121,128 Depreciation and amortisation pre-fair value uplift 12,449 4,272 16,721 Incremental depreciation and amortisation following fair value uplift 8,556 1,058 9,614 Net finance costs 9,022 2,345 11,367 Profit loss before tax 82,010 4,026 2,610 83,426 Total assets 638,689 106,154 744,843 Total liabilities 279,558 44,457 324,015 Non-current assets Intangible assets 105,619 10,391 116,010 Property, plant and equipment 351,338 49,142 400,480 Total 456,957 59,533 516,490 The unallocated segment balance includes the fair value of the Groups share-based payments and associated taxes of 1.6 million, plc Board costs 1.6 million and legal expenses associated with the listed business 0.4 million.
These costs have been offset by the research and development taxation credits of 1.8 million.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segment reporting continued Year ended 31 December 2016 UK US Unallocated Total 000 000 000 000 Clay revenue 253,592 90,539 344,131 Concrete revenue 90,556 90,556 Total revenue from external customers 344,148 90,539 434,687 Adjusted EBITDA 102,954 12,751 4,072 111,633 Pension closure costs see Note 5 28,678 28,678 Acquisition costs see Note 5 102 102 Exceptional cost of sales see Note 5 353 353 EBITDA after exceptional items 131,177 12,751 4,072 139,856 Depreciation and amortisation pre-fair value uplift 12,401 4,055 16,456 Incremental depreciation and amortisation following fair value uplift 8,717 737 9,454 Net finance costs 3,183 98 3,085 Profit loss before tax 106,876 8,057 4,072 110,861 Total assets 579,431 125,655 705,086 Total liabilities 341,650 33,979 375,629 Non-current assets Intangible assets 111,810 11,476 123,286 Property, plant and equipment 337,843 54,460 392,303 Total 449,653 65,936 515,589 In the prior year, the unallocated segment balance includes the fair value of the Groups share-based payments and associated taxes of 2.0 million, plc Board costs 1.4 million and legal expenses associated with the listed business 0.5 million.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 106 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 5.
Exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Exceptional costs of sales 353 Exceptional administrative expenses: Pension closure costs Legal and actuarial costs 211 731 Compensation payments 908 211 1,639 Release of provision for contingent consideration 1,740 1,740 Acquisition costs Transaction costs 102 102 Total exceptional administrative expenses 1,529 1,741 Curtailment gain 30,317 1,529 28,223 Exceptional finance income 522 Exceptional finance costs acceleration of debt issue costs on September 2015 borrowings 3,100 Exceptional finance costs reversing credit related to EIR accounting of September 2015 borrowings 3,286 3,286 6,386 3,286 Total exceptional items 4,857 32,031 2017 Included within the current year are the following exceptional items: Exceptional administration expenses Pension closure costs which arose in the year ended 31 December 2017 represent residual professional advisor fees associated with the closure of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme, which took place in the year ended 31 December 2016.
The release of a provision for contingent consideration of 1,740,000 arose in the year following the disposal of all interests in the Group by Bain Capital LLC see Note 29.
Exceptional finance costs Exceptional finance costs arising in the current year resulted from the refinancing of the Groups loan in March 2017, representing 3,286,000 of accelerated loan deal fees and 3,100,000 of interest charges as a result of the effective interest method of accounting.
Further detail of the Groups refinancing is provided in Note 18.
2016 Included within the prior year are the following exceptional items: Exceptional cost of sales Exceptional cost of sales in the prior year of 353,000 represent redundancy costs associated with restructuring the Groups operations in Ravenhead.
Similar activities resulting in these costs are only expected to arise infrequently.
Pension closure costs Professional advisor fees of 731,000, together with employee compensation payments of 908,000 were incurred in the prior year in relation to the closure of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme.
Due to the non-recurring nature of the closure, these costs were treated as exceptional.
A curtailment gain of 30,317,000 also arose in 2016 as a result of the Groups decision to close the UK defined benefit scheme to future accrual.
Transaction costs Professional fees and other costs of 102,000 incurred in the prior year were classified as exceptional.
These costs are directly attributable to acquisition activity arising in the year and were classified as exceptional due to their non-recurring nature.
Exceptional finance income Exceptional finance income in the year ended 31 December 2016 resulted from gains made on foreign currency contracts around the date of the UKs EU Referendum.
Similar gains are not expected to recur.
All exceptional items in the year ended 31 December 2016 were settled in cash, other than the compensation costs accrued at the balance sheet date and pension curtailment gain that is non-cash in nature based on actuarial valuation of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme as at 31 December 2016.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Exceptional items continued Tax on exceptional items 2017 The pension closure costs of 211,000 and the exceptional finance costs of 6,386,000 are tax deductible in full in the current year whilst the 1,740,000 release of contingent consideration is not taxable.
2016 Apart from the following items, exceptional items are taxable or deductible in full in the current year: i The curtailment gain of 30,317,000 is not taxable in the current year.
A deferred tax expense of 5,850,000 has been recognised in the year.
ii Administrative expenses include additional employer pension contributions of 265,000 arising from the closure of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme.
These pension contributions are tax deductible on a paid basis and a deferred tax asset of 51,000 has therefore been recognised.
iii Administrative expenses include exceptional legal and professional fees of 102,000 which are not tax deductible.
Operating profit Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Operating profit includes the effect of crediting charging : Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 1,908 2,574 Raw material and consumables used 80,606 74,661 Employee benefit expense Note 7 96,770 91,325 Depreciation Note 13 19,859 19,355 Other production costs 88,418 80,992 Total cost of sales 283,745 268,907 Transportation expenses 38,344 36,523 Other employee benefit expenses Note 7 31,316 32,245 Amortisation Note 12 6,476 6,555 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment Note 13 144 625 Advertising costs 2,179 2,642 Operating lease payments 7,163 6,920 Operating lease income 631 563 Research and development costs 226 99 Exceptional administrative expenses Note 5 1,529 1,741 Exceptional curtailment gain Note 5 30,317 Auditors remuneration During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor 2017: Deloitte, 2016: EY : Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of Parent Company and Group consolidated financial statements: 94 60 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 276 334 Total audit fees 370 394 Audit-related assurance services 56 46 Tax compliance services 18 Tax advisory services 18 Information technology services 40 Total non-audit fees 56 122 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 108 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 7.
Employees and Directors Staff costs for the Group during the year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Wages and salaries 104,043 97,675 Social security costs 15,440 13,228 Pensions costs defined benefit plans Note 20 1,887 9,362 Pensions costs defined contribution plans Note 20 5,437 1,779 Share based payments Note 25 1,279 1,526 128,086 123,570 The US post-employment benefits are accounted for as a defined contribution scheme and costs are included in the pension costs defined contribution category, above.
Average monthly number of people including Executive Directors employed: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Sales staff 313 325 Administrative staff 222 217 Production staff 2,092 2,141 2,627 2,683 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Key management compensation 2017 2016 Short-term employee benefits 3,363 2,522 Post-employment benefits 77 169 Share based payment 285 209 3,725 2,900 Key management personnel has been defined as the Board of Ibstock plc, together with Directors of the Groups largest subsidiary.
Details of remuneration for Ibstock plc Directors are presented in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 83.
The aggregate remuneration for the purposes of the financial statements is 1,848,000 year ended 31 December 2016: 1,466,000.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Finance costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Interest costs: Interest payable on September 2015 revolving credit facility 16 Interest payable on March 2017 revolving credit facility 3,057 Interest payable on September 2015 bank borrowings 1,601 5,754 Foreign exchange translations 127 Total interest payable on bank borrowings 4,658 5,643 Other interest payable 152 Interest expense on financial liabilities at amortised cost 4,810 5,643 Net interest costs arising on the UK pension scheme Note 20 308 Net interest costs arising on the US pension scheme 437 39 Unwinding of discount on provisions changes in discount rate Note 19 178 1,975 Other interest payable 20 Exceptional finance cost credit Note 5 6,386 3,286 Non-cash interest payable receivable 7,289 1,272 Total finance costs 12,099 4,371 2017 Included within the current year are the following Finance costs: A new bank borrowing facility was entered into in March 2017, as disclosed in Note 18 replacing the borrowings in place at 31 December 2016.
This financial instrument is also classified as other financial liabilities and held at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Accelerated deal fee costs of 3,100,000 associated with the extinguishment of the facilities entered into in September 2015 borrowings have been treated as exceptional in the year ended 31 December 2017.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, a cost of 3,286,000 was included within interest payable reversing the prior year non-cash credit which arose as a result of the lower interest rate payable.
Borrowing costs related to capital expenditure are insignificant and have not been capitalised.
2016 Included within the prior year are the following Finance costs: A bank borrowing facility was entered into in September 2015 and first drawn in October 2015 as disclosed in Note 18.
During the year ended 31 December 2016, a credit of 3,286,000 was included within the interest payable as a result of the lower interest rate payable.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 110 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 9.
Finance income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Interest income: Foreign currency gains 732 Fair value gain on financial instrument Note 5 522 Net interest income arising on the UK pension scheme Note 20 764 732 1,286 10.
Taxation Analysis of income tax charge Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Current tax on profits for the year 12,088 17,958 Adjustments in respect of prior year 264 266 Total current tax 11,824 17,692 Deferred tax on profits for the year 4,372 5,584 Adjustment in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses 185 Impact of change in tax rate 4,071 3,072 Adjustments in respect of prior year 2,249 479 Total deferred tax Note 21 1,948 2,806 Income tax expense reported in the consolidated income statement 9,876 20,498 The total tax expense comprises: UK 13,135 18,733 US 3,259 1,765 9,876 20,498 Income tax recognised within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Tax adjustments arising on the UK pension scheme assets and liabilities: Current tax credit 2,608 Deferred tax charge credit 12,857 11,406 Income tax recognised within the consolidated statement of changes in equity Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Deferred tax credit on share-based payments 354 48 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Taxation continued The tax expense for the year differs from the applicable standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19.25% for the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: 20%.
The differences are explained below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 Percentage 000 Percentage Profit before tax 83,426 100% 110,861 100% Profit before tax multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK 16,060 19.25% 22,172 20.00% Effects of: Expenses not deductible 329 0.39% 698 0.63% Different effective tax rate on US current period earnings 406 0.49% 652 0.59% Change in estimates related to prior periods 2,513 3.01% 213 0.19% Adjustment in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses 185 0.17% Total tax charge before deferred tax rate change and exceptional items 14,282 17.12% 23,550 21.24% Rate change on deferred tax provision US 4,042 4.85% Rate change on deferred tax provision UK 29 0.03% 3,072 2.77% Other income not taxable exceptional items 335 0.40% Other expenses not deductible exceptional items 20 0.02% Total taxation expense 9,876 11.84% 20,498 18.49% The enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on 22 December 2017 has resulted in a 4,042,000 reduction in the Groups US deferred tax assets and liabilities.
This deferred tax benefit is reflected in the tax expense reported for the year as shown above.
The tax expense for the year includes a credit of 2,113,000 relating to UK tax relief claimed but not previously recognised in respect of IPO transaction costs incurred in 2015.
The tax expense for the prior year includes a deferred tax credit of 185,000 relating to the recognition of US state tax losses arising as a result of the US business entering into a voluntary disclosure agreement declaring, retrospectively, a taxable presence in New York State and New York City since 2013.
There are no income tax consequences for the Company in respect of dividends declared prior to the date of authorisation of these financial statements and for which a liability has not been recognised.
The Group expects its effective tax rate in the future to be affected by the geographical mix of profits and the different tax rates that will apply to those profits, the outcome of any future tax audits as well as the impact of changes in tax law.
The reduction in the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK from 20% to 19% came into force with effect from 1 April 2017.
The further rate reduction to 17% from 1 April 2020 was substantively enacted in Finance Act 2016 on 6 September 2016.
The impact of these tax rate changes are reflected in these financial statements.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 112 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 11.
Earnings per share The basic earnings per share figures are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to the parent shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The diluted earnings per share figures allow for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the weighted average number of options outstanding during the year.
Where the average share price for the year is lower than the option price the options become anti-dilutive and are excluded from the calculation.
The number of shares used for the earnings per share calculation are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000s 000s Basic weighted average number of shares 406,361 406,025 Effect of share incentive awards and options 2,321 2,671 Diluted weighted average number of shares 408,682 408,696 The calculation of adjusted earnings per share is a key measurement of management that is not defined by IFRS.
The adjusted EPS measures should not be viewed in isolation, but rather treated as supplementary information.
Adjusted earnings per share figures are calculated as the Basic earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation and depreciation on fair value uplifted assets and non-cash interest expenses.
All adjustments are made net of the associated taxation impact at the Groups Effective Tax Rate.
A reconciliation of the statutory profit to that used in the adjusted earnings per share calculations is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Notes 000 000 Profit for the year attributable to the parent shareholders 73,550 90,363 Add back exceptional items 4,857 28,745 Add back tax expense credit on exceptional items 575 5,303 Add fair value adjustments 4 9,614 9,454 Less tax credit on fair value adjustments 1,138 1,744 Less net non-cash interest 903 1,447 Add back tax credit on non-cash interest 107 268 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to the parent shareholders 87,104 73,452 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 pence pence Basic EPS on profit for the year 18.1 22.3 Diluted EPS on profit for the year 18.0 22.1 Adjusted basic EPS on profit for the year 21.4 18.1 Adjusted diluted EPS on profit for the year 21.3 18.0 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 12.
The remaining amortisation period of customers relationships is eight to 18 years.
The remaining amortisation period of brands is outlined below: Net book Remaining value at amortisation 31 December period 2017 Brands 000 Years Ibstock Brick 30,185 47.20 Forticrete 572 7.20 Supreme 2,433 12.20 Glen-Gery 10,209 47.20 43,399 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 114 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 13.
There are no assets which are used as security.
Management reviews the business performance based on segments reported in Note 4.
In the current year, impairment tests have not been conducted as management believes that there is no indication of impairment of an asset.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 115 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Raw materials 22,824 21,574 Work in progress 3,082 2,785 Finished goods 65,212 64,398 91,118 88,757 The replacement cost of inventories is not considered to be materially different from the above values.
At 31 December 2017, a provision of 2,088,000 31 December 2016: 2,511,000 is held against the inventory balance.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Trade receivables 49,006 48,094 Provision for impairment of receivables 581 613 Net trade receivables 48,425 47,481 Prepayments and accrued income 3,419 3,538 Other receivables 1,572 1,129 Total trade and other receivables 53,416 52,148 There are no material differences between the fair values and book values stated above.
Assets held for sale 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Assets classified as held for sale as of the beginning of the year 1,203 Additions 3,650 1,203 Disposals Assets classified as held for sale as of the end of the year 4,853 1,203 As of 31 December 2017, the Groups properties in Stourbridge, Severn Valley, Keele and Kingsley were categorised as held for sale.
The Group recognised these assets as surplus to its ongoing requirements and for which the carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
The assets are within the UK Segment.
As of 31 December 2016, the Asset held for sale related to the Groups property in Stourbridge, which the Group recognises as surplus to its ongoing requirements and for which the carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This asset is within the UK Segment.
The fair value of the asset less costs to sell is assessed as above the assets carrying value and there are no liabilities directly associated with the assets categorised as held for sale.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 116 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 17.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Trade payables 42,716 42,048 Contingent consideration 2,260 4,000 Other tax and social security payable 10,203 4,982 Accruals and other payables 30,163 29,190 85,342 80,220 There are no material differences between the fair values and book values stated above.
Of the amount included in accruals and other payables above are other creditors due to unwind in more than one year of 523,000 31 December 2016: nil.
Contingent consideration of 2,260,000 2016: 4,000,000 relates to potential future obligations for payments to the vendor of the acquisition of the trading businesses completed in February 2015.
As part of the Tax deed within the Share sale agreement SSA, the Group was committed to make a payment to the vendor of half of any tax relief, over a contracted amount, received by the acquired business as a result of the Groups one-off pension payment.
The amount was payable to the vendor during the period whilst the acquired entities remained under ownership of the original purchaser greater than 20%.
The fair value of the future obligation was estimated at 4,000,000, with a range being nil to 4,000,000.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, the original purchaser ceased to hold any shares within the acquired entities see Note 29 for details.
Consequently, an amount of 1,740,000 has been released from the amount originally provided as contingent consideration.
Borrowings 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Current September 2015 bank borrowings 13,044 March 2017 revolving credit facility 551 551 13,044 Non-current September 2015 revolving credit facility 165,556 March 2017 bank borrowings 147,980 147,980 165,556 Total borrowings 148,531 178,600 As at 31 December 2017 In March 2017, the Group entered into a new 250 million Revolving Credit Facility RCF.
The facility has no fixed repayment terms during its five-year term.
The Group must comply with covenant requirements relating to interest cover 4x and leverage 3x and report to the banks on a six-monthly basis.
The RCF attracts interest of between 1% and 2.25% plus LIBOR depending upon the leverage ratio.
During the year, amounts between 150 million and 180 million have been drawn on facility.
The Group has an overdraft facility of 10 million as part of the Groups cash pooling arrangements.
As at 31 December 2016 A 240 million facilities agreement covering the following financial instruments were entered into as part of the strategic planning for the Initial Public Offering in October 2015: Bank borrowings at 31 December 2016 A five-year 200 million facility was entered into in September 2015 and first drawn in October with mandatory repayments of 15 million due on the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th anniversary dates subject to the Groups right to elect not to make one of the repayment instalments due during the term of the loan.
The borrowings attracted interest of between 1.25% and 2.50% depending on leverage ratio defined as consolidated total net debt as a proportion of consolidated EBITDA plus LIBOR or EURIBOR for any loan in Euro per annum, payable either three or six monthly at the option of the Group.
A commitment fee is payable on the undrawn element of the facility based on 35% of applicable margin.
Revolving credit facility RCF at 31 December 2016 A new RCF for 40 million over five years was entered into in September 2015.
The borrowings attract interest of between 1.25% and 2.50% depending on leverage ratio defined as above plus LIBOR or EURIBOR for any loan in Euro per annum, payable either one, three or six monthly at the option of the Group.
In the current year, the RCF was drawn on five occasions for values ranging from 2,975,000 to 7,075,000.
At 31 December 2016, the full facility was undrawn.
This facility was cancelled in March 2017.
The carrying value of financial liabilities have been assessed as materially in line with their fair values.
No security is currently provided over the Groups borrowings.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 117 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Provisions 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Restoration i 4,839 5,160 Dilapidations ii 5,809 8,414 Other iii 322 1,058 10,970 14,632 Current 350 462 Non-current 10,620 14,170 10,970 14,632 Restoration Dilapidations Other i ii iii Total 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 2017 5,160 8,414 1,058 14,632 Utilised 13 42 55 Credited to income statement 266 2,755 670 3,691 Unwind of discount change in rate 21 157 178 Translation adjustment 63 7 24 94 At 31 December 2017 4,839 5,809 322 10,970 The current expected timeframe of provision requirements is as follows: Restoration Dilapidations i ii 000 000 Within one year 215 93 Between two to five years 434 1,373 Between five to 10 years 107 2,123 Between 10 to 20 years 241 1,637 Over 20 years 3,842 583 4,839 5,809 i The restoration provision comprises obligations governing site remediation and improvement costs to be incurred in compliance with applicable environmental regulations together with constructive obligations stemming from established practice once the sites have been fully utilised.
The key estimates associated with calculating the provision relate to the cost per acre to perform the necessary remediation work as at the reporting date together with determining the year of retirement.
Estimates are updated annually based on the total estimated available reserves and the expected extraction rates.
Whilst a significant element of the total provision will reverse in the medium term two to 10 years, the majority of the legal and constructive obligations applicable to mineral-bearing land will unwind over a 30-year timeframe.
In discounting the related obligations, expected future cash outflows have been determined with due regard to extraction status and anticipated remaining life.
ii Provisions for dilapidations, which arose as contingent liabilities recognised upon the business combination in the prior year, are recognised on a lease by lease basis and are based on the Groups best estimate of the likely contractual cash outflows, which are estimated to occur over the lease term.
iii Other provisions relate to provisions for the Restructuring, Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan SERP, product warranties, landfill and onerous contracts.
The restructuring provision covers current and former employees who have ceased working on grounds of ill health and is a liability payable to their normal retirement date.
The SERP is a defined contribution retirement plan in respect of basic salary entitlements for Executive Directors.
The product warranties are based on the estimate of the cost of fulfilling customer warranty claims.
The estimate is derived principally from historical data appropriately adjusted for specific risk factors.
Under the Groups standard sales terms, the Group repairs or replaces items that fail to perform satisfactorily for one year from the date of delivery to the customer.
It is expected that most of this expenditure will be incurred within one year of the balance sheet date.
The landfill provision relates to the restoration of the associated sites and environmental remediation required by legislation.
The onerous contract provision provides cover for the exposure that the Group has for both current property leases where the rent being paid is significantly higher than the current market rents and vacant properties at acquisition.
Overall these provisions are not deemed material.
The Group holds insurance performance bonds with Liberty Mutual Insurance Company in respect of the Groups maintenance and remediation obligations in respect of sites from which materials are being extracted.
The bonds are typically in favour of the Department of Environmental Protection within the relevant jurisdictions.
The maximum term on the bonds outstanding at that date is July 2018.
The bonds are typically renewed on an annual basis at comparable levels.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 118 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 20.
Post-employment benefit obligations a Defined benefit plan Analysis of movements in the net obligation during the year: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Funded plan at 31 December Opening balance 28,685 331 Income within labour costs and operating profit 1,887 9,362 Curtailment gain 30,317 Interest income expense 308 764 Remeasurement gain loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 54,728 66,896 Pension scheme surplus restriction recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 14,223 5,877 Contributions 7,993 22,038 Carried forward at 31 December 46,064 28,685 The Group participates in the Ibstock Pension Scheme the Scheme, a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK.
The Scheme has four participating employers Ibstock Brick Limited, Forticrete Limited, Anderton Concrete Products Limited, Figgs Bidco Limited from 26 February 2015 and Tyrone Brick Limited up to 26 February 2015.
The Scheme is funded by payment of contributions to a separate trustee administered fund.
The scheme is a revalued earnings plan and provides benefits to its members based on their length of membership in the scheme and their average salary over that period.
Following consultation with members, accounting for the schemes closure to future accrual occurred in the year ended 31 December 2016.
As a result, benefits were reassessed as active members were transferred to deferred membership.
The Scheme is administered by trustees who employ independent fund managers for the investment of the pension scheme assets.
These assets are kept entirely separate from those of the Group.
Total annual contributions to the Scheme are based on independent actuarial advice, and are gauged to fund future pension liabilities in respect of service up to the balance sheet date.
The Scheme is subject to independent actuarial valuation at least every three years using the projected unit method.
The valuation used as at 31 December 2017 has been based on the results of the 30 November 2014 valuation, as updated for changes in demographic assumptions, as appropriate.
The next valuation will be based on the results as at 30 November 2017, which is currently underway.
Through its defined benefit pension plan, the Group is exposed to a number of risks that are inherent in such plans and arrangements.
There are, however, no unusual, entity-specific or plan-specific risks, and no significant concentrations of risk.
The risks can be summarised as follows: asset value volatility, with the associated impact on the assets held in connection with the funding of pension obligations and the related cash flows: changes in bond yields, with any reduction resulting in an increase in the present value of pension obligations, mitigated by an increase in the value of plan assets: risk of volatility in inflation rates as pension obligations are generally linked to inflation: and life expectancy, as pension benefits are provided for the life of beneficiaries and their dependents.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 119 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Post-employment benefit obligations continued The Company and Trustees intend to fide-risk the Schemes investment strategy by moving towards a position that is predominantly liability matching in nature.
This involves an Asset Liability Management ALM framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the Scheme.
Within this framework the ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in risk-reducing assets such as long-term fixed interest and index-linked securities.
The Company actively monitors the investment strategy to ensure that the expected cash flows arising from the pension obligations are sufficiently met.
Balance sheet assets obligations : 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Equities 169,780 275,151 Bonds 223,636 159,933 Properties 25,057 24,221 Liability driven investment 219,109 220,535 Cash 21,846 3,731 Total market value of assets 659,428 683,571 Present value of scheme liabilities 613,364 698,033 Net scheme liability asset 46,064 14,462 Pension scheme surplus restriction 14,223 Post-employment benefit liability asset after surplus restriction 46,064 28,685 Other pension commitments Note 20 b 8,735 9,389 Net post-employment benefit surplus obligation 37,329 38,074 All equities and bonds have a quoted market price in an active market.
Properties and cash and cash equivalents are quoted.
Liability Driven Investments LDI are funds constructed to reduce the risk within the scheme.
They help to mitigate against movements in inflation or interest rates by moving in a similar way to the liabilities following market movements.
The funds are constructed from gilts and swaps.
The Schemes LDI fund is managed by BMO, is predominantly unquoted and is set up as a bespoke pooled fund with valuations undertaken on a regular basis with rebalancing occurring on a quarterly basis to reflect the movements in the schemes other assets and cash flows.
To reduce volatility risk, an LDI strategy forms part of the Trustees management of the scheme assets, comprising UK gilts, repurchase agreements and derivatives.
At 31 December 2017, the LDI held assets valued at 409,639,000 and liabilities of 190,132,000.
The liabilities comprised repurchase agreements, which are entered into to better offset the schemes exposure to interest and inflation rate, whilst remaining invested in assets of a similar risk profile.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Current service cost 895 8,654 Administrative expenses 992 708 Multi-employer scheme 267 243 Curtailment gain on closure of scheme 30,317 Defined contribution scheme costs 5,170 1,536 Charge income within labour costs and operating profit 7,324 19,176 Interest income expense 308 764 Total charge income to the income statement 7,632 19,940 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 120 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Remeasurements recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Remeasurement gain on defined benefit scheme assets 53,553 101,960 Remeasurement loss from changes in financial assumptions 24,231 153,201 Remeasurement loss gain from changes in demographic assumptions 12,315 15,845 Experience adjustments 13,091 190 Other comprehensive income 54,728 66,896 The remeasurement losses from changes in financial assumptions incurred in 2016 are mainly the result of the fall in corporate bond yields.
This has been partially offset by positive asset returns during the year resulting in the gain on scheme assets.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Present value of defined benefit obligation at beginning of the year 698,033 550,518 Current service cost 895 8,654 Interest cost 18,120 20,467 Curtailment gain on closure of scheme 30,317 Contributions by scheme participants 11 69 Experience losses 13,091 190 Benefits paid 102,502 19,996 Remeasurement loss arising from change in financial assumptions 24,231 153,201 Remeasurement gains loss arising from change in demographic assumptions 12,315 15,845 Insurance premium for risk benefits 18 218 Present value of defined benefit obligations carried forward at 31 December 613,364 698,033 The closure of the scheme to future accrual has resulted in a curtailment gain of 30,317,000 resulting from revisions to the measurement of future obligations, which was recognised in the year ended 31 December 2016 and treated as an exceptional item See Note 5.
Analysis of movements in the asset ceiling restriction within Other comprehensive income: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Asset ceiling restriction at beginning of the year 14,223 8,037 Interest cost on the adjustment 309 Change in adjustment excluding interest 14,223 5,877 Asset ceiling restriction at end of the year 14,223 This scheme has a surplus that is recognised on the basis that the Directors believed following the receipt of legal advice, that future economic benefits would be ultimately available to the Group in the form of a reduction in the future contributions or a cash refund.
See Note 2 for further details of the judgement taken.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 121 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Post-employment benefit obligations continued Changes in the fair value of plan assets are analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Fair value of pension scheme assets at beginning of the year 683,571 558,886 Interest income 17,812 21,540 Remeasurement gain on pension scheme assets 53,553 101,960 Employer contributions 7,993 22,038 Contributions by scheme participants 11 69 Benefits paid 102,502 19,996 Administrative expenses 992 708 Insurance premium for risk benefits 18 218 Fair value of pension scheme assets carried forward 659,428 683,571 Plan assets are comprised as follows: 31 December 2017 Quoted Unquoted Total 000 000 000 Percentage Equity instruments 169,780 169,780 UK equities 23,408 23,408 4% Overseas equities 115,787 115,787 18% Emerging market equities 30,585 30,585 5% Debt instruments 223,636 223,636 UK corporate bonds 223,636 223,636 34% Index linked gilts 0% Property Property 25,057 25,057 4% Liability driven investment 219,109 219,109 33% Cash and net current assets 21,846 21,846 3% Total 440,319 219,109 659,428 100% Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 122 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 31 December 2016 Quoted Unquoted Total 000 000 000 Percentage Equity instruments 275,151 275,151 UK equities 73,449 73,449 11% Overseas equities 150,570 150,570 22% Emerging market equities 51,132 51,132 7% Debt instruments 159,933 159,933 UK corporate bonds 159,933 159,933 23% Index linked gilts 0% Property Property 24,221 24,221 4% Liability driven investment 220,535 220,535 32% Cash and net current assets 3,731 3,731 1% Total 463,036 220,535 683,571 100% The Group contributed 16.0% of pensionable salaries to the Scheme during the year reported up to the date at which active members ceased to accrue benefits 1 February 2017.
Based on the most recent valuation, a payment schedule was agreed with the Trustees of the Ibstock Pension Scheme so that the schemes deficit can be eliminated.
This included the Group contributing 16% of pensionable salaries to the scheme in the year ended 31 December 2016 and up to 1 February 2017, which is no longer required following the closure of the scheme to future accrual.
Additionally, a further 7,000,000 per annum is payable under the schedule of contributions until May 2021.
This schedule of contributions is revised at the time of each funding valuation.
As noted above, a funding valuation as at 30 November 2017 is currently underway.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 20 years 2016: 20 years.
In the year ended 31 December 2017, other costs related to the closure of the scheme to future accrual of 211,000 2016: 1,639,000 were incurred and classified as exceptional see Note 5.
The principal assumptions used by the actuary in his calculations were: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Per annum Per annum Discount rate 2.45% 2.80% RPI inflation 3.15% 3.35% CPI inflation 2.15% 2.35% Rate of increase in salary n a n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.65% 3.75% Commutation factor 15.52 15.52 Mortality assumptions: life expectancy from age 65 For a male currently aged 65 22.60 years 22.70 years For a female currently aged 65 25.00 years 25.30 years For a male currently aged 40 24.50 years 25.10 years For a female currently aged 40 26.90 years 27.80 years The post-retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected changes to life expectancy.
The life expectancies quoted for members currently aged 40 assume that they retire at age 65 i. e. 25 years after the balance sheet date.
The principal financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
The obligations are primarily in Sterling and have a maturity of some 20 years.
If the real discount rate increased decreased by 0.25%, the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2016 would decrease increase by approximately 5%.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 123 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Post-employment benefit obligations continued The impact on the defined benefit obligation to changes in the financial and demographic assumptions is shown below: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 0.25% increase in discount rate 28,302 35,707 0.25% decrease in discount rate 30,348 36,442 0.25% increase in salary growth rate 0.25% decrease in salary growth rate 0.25% increase in pension growth rate 19,725 24,135 0.25% decrease in pension growth rate 18,696 22,851 0.25% increase in inflation rate 19,551 23,914 0.25% decrease in inflation rate 17,897 28,353 One year increase in life expectancy 28,864 30,984 One year decrease in life expectancy 28,545 30,744 b Multi-employer scheme The Group participates in two multi-employer defined benefit pension schemes, being Aluminium, Brick and Glass Workers International Union AB&GW and National Integrated Group Pension Plan NIGPP, which are both held in the United States.
As the Group is unable to identify its share of the assets and liabilities for these schemes as insufficient information is available on which to calculate this split as confirmed with the schemes actuaries, they are accounted for on a defined contribution basis.
The charge for the year to December 2017 is 267,000 year ended 31 December 2016: 243,000.
The Group is not liable for any other contributing entities within either scheme.
For exit from the schemes by the Group at the most recent actuarial valuation, it was estimated that the withdrawal liability for the schemes equalled 15,527,000 2016: 18,346,000 and 2,171,000 2016: 1,836,000 for the AB&GW and NIGPP, respectively, although management currently do not have any plans on withdrawing from either scheme.
The minimum contribution requirements for the AB&GW scheme are based on a minimum monthly charge per active employee, with the minimum contribution requirements for the NIGPP scheme being based on a minimum charge per hour worked.
The expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting year, being the year ending December 2018, is 381,000.
In respect of the AB&GW scheme, based on the total contributions made in 2017 to the multi-employer schemes, the level of participation the Group made compared to other participating entities was 85% and the Group has circa 70% of all members active, deferred and retired.
In respect of the NIGPP scheme, based on the proportion of the withdrawal liability against total plan liabilities, the level of participation the Group made compared to other participating entities was less than 1%.
The contribution rates agreed to be paid by the Group include an element of rehabilitation funding with respect to the total plan deficit.
For this scheme, the arrangements gives rise to a present obligation and as such a liability has been recognised of 8,735,000 2016: 9,389,000 for future committed contribution amounts as at 31 December 2017, with an associated recognised deferred tax asset of 2,292,000 2016: 3,727,000.
This has been calculated by discounting the future cash flows, which accrete at 7% per annum in line with the rehabilitation funding plan as set by the scheme Trustees, at a rate commensurate with the time value of money using a 20-year US treasury rate 2.58% given the duration of the rehabilitation funding plan runs to 2034.
This calculation is based on managements estimated number of employees in future years.
The movement in the current year is primarily driven by the movement in the Sterling: Dollar exchange rate.
The Trustees meet annually to reassess the funding contribution increase this has been set at the 7% rate since 2012.
Based on the contribution rates and total withdrawal liability for the NIGPP plan, management has determined any present obligation arising from the plan is immaterial.
c Defined contribution plan The Group operates defined contribution schemes under the Ibstock pension scheme, the Supreme Concrete Limited pension scheme, the Anderton Concrete pension scheme and the Supreme Concrete Group Personal Plan.
Contributions by both employees and Group companies are held in externally invested,  funds.
The Group contributes a specified percentage of earnings for members of the above defined contribution schemes, and thereafter has no further obligations in relation to the scheme.
The total cost charged to income in relation to the defined contribution scheme in the year was 5,170,000 year ended 31 December 2016: 1,536,000.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 124 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 21.
Deferred tax assets liabilities The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Net deferred tax liability at beginning of the year 55,445 62,269 Differences on exchange 710 1,824 Tax credited charged to the consolidated income statement 1,948 2,806 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 12,857 11,406 Tax credited directly to equity 354 48 Net deferred tax liability at year end 65,290 55,445 Presented in the consolidated balance sheet after offset as: Deferred tax assets 1,412 1,560 Deferred tax liabilities 66,702 57,005 65,290 55,445 Deferred tax assets 11,689 22,302 Deferred tax liabilities 76,979 77,747 Net deferred tax liability at the year end 65,290 55,445 Deferred tax assets expected to unwind within one year 3,192 3,848 Deferred tax assets expected to unwind after one year 8,497 18,454 11,689 22,302 Deferred tax liabilities expected to unwind within one year 2,024 2,677 Deferred tax liabilities expected to unwind after one year 74,955 75,070 76,979 77,747 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 125 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Deferred tax assets liabilities continued The movement in the net deferred tax liability analysed by each type of temporary difference is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2017 As at 31 December 2017 Net balance Differences Recognised Recognised Deferred at 1 January on in income Recognised directly in Deferred tax 2017 exchange statement in OCI equity Net tax assets liabilities 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Intangible fixed asset 23,925 314 2,713 20,898 20,898 Tangible fixed assets 50,364 885 4,449 45,030 75 45,105 Land revaluation 1,360 96 442 822 822 Rolled over and held over capital gains 1,836 504 1,332 1,332 Employee pension liabilities 9,076 265 2,414 12,857 6,460 2,292 8,752 Pension contribution spreading 6,069 3,054 3,015 3,015 Provisions 4,630 140 1,230 3,260 3,260 Share incentive plans 319 238 354 911 911 Tax losses 2,051 189 274 2,136 2,136 Other temporary differences 105 9 26 70 70 Deferred tax assets liabilities before offsetting 55,445 710 1,948 12,857 354 65,290 11,689 76,979 Offset of balances within the same tax jurisdiction 10,277 10,277 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 1,412 66,702 Year ended 31 December 2016 As at 31 December 2016 Net balance at 1 January Recognised Recognised 2016 Differences in income Recognised directly in Deferred Deferred restated on exchange statement in OCI equity Net tax assets tax liabilities 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Intangible fixed asset 25,207 593 1,875 23,925 23,925 Tangible fixed assets 51,121 2,250 3,007 50,364 116 50,480 Land revaluation 1,088 222 50 1,360 1,360 Rolled over and held over capital gains 1,526 310 1,836 1,836 Employee pension liabilities, net of reimbursement asset 1,186 616 4,132 11,406 9,076 9,076 Pension contribution spreading 9,242 3,173 6,069 6,069 Provisions 5,050 368 788 4,630 4,630 Share incentive plans 212 59 48 319 319 Tax losses 1,123 283 645 2,051 2,051 Other temporary differences 140 26 61 105 41 146 Deferred tax assets liabilities before offsetting 62,269 1,824 2,806 11,406 48 55,445 22,302 77,747 Offset of balances within the same tax jurisdiction 20,742 20,742 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 1,560 57,005 The enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on 22 December 2017 has resulted in a 4,042,000 reduction in the Groups US deferred tax assets and liabilities.
A deferred tax credit of 4,042,000 has been recognised in the income statement.
There are no unrecognised deferred tax assets or liabilities as at 31 December 2017.
In the prior year, a deferred tax asset of 2,113,000 in respect of tax losses and tax depreciation was not recognised.
In the prior year, deferred tax assets were disclosed as current assets.
Deferred tax assets have been reclassified as non-current assets.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 126 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 22.
Financial instruments risk management Financial assets Loans and receivables 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Trade and other receivables Note 15 50,415 48,986 Cash and cash equivalents 31,490 45,829 Total 81,905 94,815 Financial liabilities Loans and payables 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Trade and other payables Note 17 75,139 75,238 Borrowings Note 18 148,531 178,600 Total 223,670 253,838 All financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, credit sales and deposits with banks and is managed on a Group basis.
This risk arises from transactions with banks, such as those involving cash and cash equivalents and deposits.
To reduce the credit risk, the Group has concentrated its main activities with a Group of banks that have strong, independently verified credit ratings.
For each bank, individual risk limits are set based on its financial position, credit ratings, past experience and other factors.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
The Group has significant sales contracts with a number of blue-chip companies and accordingly the Directors believe there is a limited exposure to credit risk, but this is actively monitored at Board level.
The Groups policy on credit risk requires appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The ageing analysis of the trade receivables from date of past due but not considered to be impaired is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Not past due 33,222 36,395 Less than one month past due 12,877 9,657 One to six months past due 2,167 1,376 Six to 12 months past due 215 53 More than 12 months past due 56 48,425 47,481 Other receivables are due to be received within the next 12 months.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 127 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial instruments risk management continued The ageing analysis of the trade receivables from date of past due determined to be impaired is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Less than one month past due 21 One to six months past due 374 337 Six to 12 months past due 137 189 More than 12 months past due 70 66 581 613 Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Opening balance 613 654 Charged to the income statement 66 7 Utilised 33 2 Released 46 74 Exchange movements 19 42 Closing impairment provision 581 613 Market risk Market risk is defined as the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk, being currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
In the post acquisition period the Groups interest rate risk arises principally from the revolving credit facility and bank borrowings which attract floating rate interest, see Note 18.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by using a floating rate debt with varying repayment terms.
The Group also does not trade in derivative financial instruments and so is not considered to be exposed to other price risk.
The exposure to currency risk is considered low.
The exposure in different currency of financial assets and liabilities is as follows: Sterling US$ Euro Total At 31 December 2017 000 000 000 000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 24,849 3,068 3,573 31,490 Trade and other receivables Note 15 40,869 8,292 1,254 50,415 65,718 11,360 4,827 81,905 Financial liabilities Borrowings Note 18 148,531 148,531 Trade and other payables Note 17 65,776 6,821 2,542 75,139 214,307 6,821 2,542 223,670 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 128 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Sterling US$ Euro Total At 31 December 2016 000 000 000 000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 32,926 12,799 104 45,829 Trade and other receivables Note 15 36,330 12,105 551 48,986 69,256 24,904 655 94,815 Financial liabilities Borrowings Note 18 178,600 178,600 Trade and other payables Note 17 62,382 9,918 2,938 75,238 240,982 9,918 2,938 253,838 There are no material differences between the fair values and the book values stated above.
The Group has negligible risk to currency fluctuations as the majority of assets and liabilities are held in the same functional currency.
Liquidity risk The Group has generated sufficient cash from operations to meet its working capital requirements and finance its investing activities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by entering into committed bank borrowing facilities to ensure the Group has sufficient funds available, and monitoring cash flow forecasts to ensure the Group has adequate borrowing facilities.
The maturity of the Groups borrowings is as follows: Less than six Six months to Two to five Greater than months one year years five years Total At 31 December 2017 000 000 000 000 000 Borrowings: Bank borrowings 551 147,980 148,531 Total 551 147,980 148,531 Less than six Six months to Two to five Greater than months one year years five years Total At 31 December 2016 000 000 000 000 000 Borrowings: Bank borrowings 13,044 165,556 178,600 Total 13,044 165,556 178,600 At 31 December 2017, the Group had an RCF facility of 250 million over five years.
The facility was utilised throughout the year ended 31 December 2017, resulting in an interest charge of 3,057,000.
At 31 December 2016, the Group has an RCF facility of 40 million over five years that was entered into in September 2015.
During the year ending 31 December 2016, the RCF was drawn on five occasions for values from 2,975,000 to 7,075,000, resulting in an interest charge of 16,000 in the year.
See Note 18 for further details.
For details of the maturity of other financial liabilities, see note 17.
The contractual non-discounted minimum future cash flows in respect of these borrowings are: Less than Two to five Greater than one year years five years Total At 31 December 2017 000 000 000 000 Borrowings: Bank borrowings 2,719 153,633 156,352 Total 2,719 153,633 156,352 Less than Two to five Greater than one year years five years Total At 31 December 2016 000 000 000 000 Borrowings: Bank borrowings 18,987 180,028 199,015 Total 18,987 180,028 199,015 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 129 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial instruments risk management continued Fair value hierarchy IFRS 13 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires fair value measurements to be recognised using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in the measurements, according to the following levels: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
All of the Groups fair value measurements have been categorised as Level 1 except for contingent consideration which has been categorised as Level 3.
There were no transfers between levels during the year.
Financial instruments in Level 3 The Groups financial instruments that are categorised under level 3 are contingent consideration relating to the acquisition of the trading businesses in February 2015.
The techniques used to value these obligations are included in Note 17.
The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Contingent consideration 000 At 1 January 2017 4,000 Gains and losses recognised in profit and loss 1,740 At 31 December 2017 2,260 Capital risk management The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt borrowings disclosed in Note 18 after deducting cash and bank balances and equity of the parent company, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Note 24.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, or borrow additional debt.
The Group must comply with two covenants each half year from 30 June 2017.
The covenants are certain ratios of interest cover and leverage, which are monitored on a regular basis by the Board.
At the year end date, management believes significant headroom exists on both covenant conditions.
Dividend policy Our dividend policy is based on a pay-out ratio of 4050% of adjusted profit after taxation over a business cycle.
This adjusted profit measure can be seen in Note 11 to the Group financial statements.
Following the announcement of our dividend policy at the time of the Groups IPO in October 2015, Directors remain confident that the dividend policy remains appropriate.
At 31 December 2017, the parent maintains significant distributable reserves of 409 million.
The Directors intend that the Company will pay an interim dividend equal to one-third of the prior years full year dividend, with a final dividend in respect of each financial year as the balance to the total annual dividend, to be announced at the time of the announcement of the interim and final results, respectively.
The Directors believe that a policy of paying one-third of the prior full year dividend as an interim in the following half-year period provides greater certainty to shareholders.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 130 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 23.
Share capital Share capital Number of shares 000 At 1 January 2016 Issued, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 405,500,000 4,055 405,500,000 4,055 Issue of Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 817,131 8 At 31 December 2016 406,317,131 4,063 Issue of Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 103,417 1 At 31 December 2017 406,420,548 4,064 Comprised of: Issued, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 406,420,548 4,064 In the year ending 31 December 2017, share capital has increased by 103,417 as a result of the issue of Ordinary share capital of 0.01 each to satisfy share options exercised in the year.
In the prior year, share capital has increased by 817,131 as a result of the issue of Ordinary share capital of 0.01 each to satisfy share options exercised in the year.
Reserves Share premium account The share premium account is used to record the aggregate amount or value of premiums paid when the Companys shares are issued redeemed at a premium.
Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Other reserves Other reserves in the prior year relate to contingent consideration arising on acquisition where there is no contractual obligation to settle the contingent consideration in cash based on events outside the Groups control.
As part of the Share Sale Agreement with the previous owner of the acquired entities, half of all proceeds above a contracted amount, received by the acquired trading business on the sale of certain land assets in the future, shall be payable to the seller.
Sale of land assets is in the control of the Group and accordingly was recognised in equity.
Contingent consideration was recognised in relation to this, based on managements best estimate of 1,109,000 from an estimated range of nil to 3,800,000.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, the purchaser ceased to hold any shares in Ibstock plc, as set out in Note 29, and as a result the amount of 1,109,000 has been transferred from Other reserves to Retained earnings within the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Merger reserve The merger reserve of 369.1 million arose on the acquisition of Figgs Topco Limited by Ibstock plc in a prior period and is the difference between the share capital and share premium of Figgs Topco Limited and the nominal value of the investment and preference shares in Figgs Topco Limited acquired by the Company.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 131 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share incentive plans Share based payment charges: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Long-Term Incentive Plan 25 a 316 264 Share Option Plan 25 b 226 159 Annual & Deferred Bonus Plan 25 c 18 Save As You Earn 25 d 453 725 Share Incentive Plan 25 e 266 378 1,279 1,526 Executive share option plans The Group operates a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, a Share Option Plan SOP and an Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan ADBP share-based payment awards for selected management.
a LTIP The Group granted LTIPs during the year for key management at the discretion of the Board and this has been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of nil-priced share options.
The LTIP awards contain performance conditions dependent upon the growth of the Groups earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return TSR.
Please refer to the information given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 83 for details in relation to the vesting conditions in relation to the LTIP.
During the year, 731,007 options 2016: 755,311 over Ordinary shares of 1p each were granted to management under the LTIP and 73,684 shares 2016: 263,981 were exercised at a weighted average share price at the date of exercise of 2.52 2016: 1.76.
During the year ending 31 December 2017, 108,313 options 2016: nil lapsed.
b SOP The Group granted options under the Share Option Plan during the year at the discretion of the Board and this has been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Under the SOP 484,570 options 2016: 360,423 options over Ordinary shares of 1p each were granted to management.
To date, no options have been exercisable under the SOP and 81,538 options 2016: nil options lapsed.
Awards granted in the year under the scheme have a specified exercise price of 211.8p 2016: 195.4p and the weighted average exercise price of options outstanding is 208.5p.
The SOP has an employment condition of three years and no other performance conditions.
c ADBP The ADBP incorporates the Companys executive bonus scheme as well as a mechanism for the deferral of bonus into awards over Ordinary shares.
The ADBP operates in respect of the annual bonus earned for the financial year.
The Board can determine that part of the bonus earned under the ADBP is provided as an award of deferred shares, which take the form of a nil cost option.
The maximum value of deferred shares is 50% of the bonus earned.
The first deferred awards over Ordinary shares under the ADBP was made in relation to the 2016 year end bonus with options issued in March 2017.
The main terms of these awards are a minimum deferral period of three years, during which no performance conditions will apply: and the participants employment at the end of the deferral period.
In the current year, 9,593 options lapsed and at 31 December 2017, an amount of 76,000 2016: 89,000 had been recorded in accruals for the award relating to the bonus earned for the year ending 31 December 2017.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 132 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information All employee share schemes In addition to the Executive share option plans, the Group has two all-employee share-based payment arrangements the Save As You Earn SAYE and Share Incentive Plan SIP awards: d SAYE In order to participate in the Groups Sharesave Plan, an employee must enter into a linked savings contract with a bank or building society to make contributions from salary on a monthly basis over a three or five-year period.
A participant who enters into a savings agreement is granted an option to acquire Ordinary shares under the Sharesave Plan at a specified exercise price.
The total number of awards issued under this scheme in the period ended 31 December 2015 equalled 3,760,262, of which 623,671 have lapsed and 29,733 were exercised in the year ending 31 December 2017.
There have been no further awards in the current or prior years.
e SIP On 18 December 2015, the Company announced a Share Incentive Plan SIP following the Groups IPO.
Subject to qualifying employment conditions, all employees were entitled to apply for free shares up to a value of 800 depending on their period of service.
The number of shares issued under the SIP in the year ended 31 December 2016 was 553,150.
The free shares have a three-year employment condition and no further vesting conditions.
In the year ended 31 December 2017, 53,950 shares lapsed and 4,650 shares were provided to good leavers.
The assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the LTIP, SOP and ADBP awards granted during the year ended 31 December 2017 are detailed below: LTIP SOP ADBP Grant date 29 March 2017 29 March 2017 29 March 2017 Share price at grant date 2.118 2.118 2.118 Exercise price nil 2.118 nil Number of shares issued 731,007 484,570 83,017 Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years Pricing Model Monte Carlo Binomial Binomial % expected to vest 95% 95% 95% Expected share price volatility 31.36% 32.90% n a Expected dividend yield n a 4.13% n a Expected option life 3 years 6.5 years n a Fair value per share 1.67 0.46 2.10 Risk-free rate 0.18% 0.69% n a Awards under the Executive Share Option plans and All-employee share schemes are as follows: Executive All-employee Share options schemes Outstanding at 1 January 2017 2,037,730 4,313,412 Awards granted 1,298,594 Awards exercised 73,684 34,383 Awards lapsed forfeited 199,444 682,271 Awards outstanding at 31 December 2017 3,063,196 3,596,758 In assessing the expected volatility level, due to Ibstock plcs short share price history, volatility of similar listed companies have been used as a proxy.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 133 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Operating leases and commitments The Group as lessee Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due are as follows: 31 December 2017 Land and buildings Other Total 000 000 000 Within one year 3,302 4,128 7,430 Between two and five years 10,446 6,175 16,621 After five years 19,091 150 19,241 32,839 10,453 43,292 31 December 2016 Land and buildings Other Total 000 000 000 Within one year 3,026 4,036 7,062 Between two and five years 10,291 7,137 17,428 After five years 19,883 160 20,043 33,200 11,333 44,533 The Group is lessee on a number of properties in addition to plant and machinery which it uses in its operations.
The operating leases run for a variety of terms and their non-cancellable commitments are set out above.
There is no material contingent rent payable, renewal or purchase options, escalation clauses or restrictions imposed by the lease agreements.
The Group as lessor The future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Within one year 562 464 Between two and five years 786 624 After five years 999 1,195 2,347 2,283 The Group acts as lessor on a number of properties where it leases surplus land not currently utilised by the business.
The operating leases run for a variety of terms and their future minimum lease payments receivable are set out above.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for not yet incurred at the balance sheet date, predominantly relating to assets in the course of construction, is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Amount contracted for, which has not been provided 16,067 26,799 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 134 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 27.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Notes 000 000 Profit before taxation 83,426 110,861 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 19,859 19,356 Amortisation of intangible assets 12 6,476 6,555 Finance costs 8 11,367 3,085 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6 144 625 Other 115 1,054 Movement in contingent consideration 1,740 Research and development taxation credit 1,762 Share-based payment 25 1,279 1,526 Deferred income 215 Curtailment gain 20 30,317 Post-employment benefits 6,118 3,676 112,528 105,496 Increase in inventory 4,942 320 Increase in debtors 2,319 309 Increase decrease in creditors 9,093 101 Decrease increase in provisions 3,565 39 Cash generated from operations 110,795 104,805 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 135 Notes to the Group consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Group subsidiaries Ibstock plc had the following subsidiaries as at 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2017: Proportion of Ordinary Proportion of shares held Ordinary Country of directly by the shares held by Entity Principal activity incorporation Parent the Group 1 Figgs Topco Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Figgs Midco Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Figgs Newco Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Ibstock Building Products Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Figgs Bidco Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Figgs Bidco 2 Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Ibstock Group Limited Holding company UK 100% 100% Forticrete Ltd Manufacturer of concrete products UK 100% 100% 2 Home Building Supplies Ltd Sale and distribution of building materials UK 100% 100% Baldwin Industries Ltd Holding company UK 100% 100% Anderton Concrete Products Ltd Manufacturer and supplier of precast and prestressed concrete products UK 100% 100% Oakhill Holdings Ltd Holding company UK 100% 100% Supreme Concrete Ltd Manufacturer and supplier of precast and prestressed concrete products UK 100% 100% Gee-Co Holdings Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Holding Company Ltd Holding company UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Ltd Brick manufacturer UK 100% 100% Ibstock Leasing Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% 3 Ibstock Management Services Ltd Dormant Jersey 100% 100% 3 Ibstock Finance Co Ltd Dormant Jersey 100% 100% Kevington Building Products Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Leicester Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Aldridge Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Himley Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Westbrick Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Aldridge Property Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% 2 Moore & Sons Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Manchester Brick and Precast Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Nostell Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Roughdales Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Brick Cattybrook Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Hathernware Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% Ibstock Bricks 1996 Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% 2 Wealdbeam Systems Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% 2 Loopfire Systems Ltd Dormant UK 100% 100% 4 Glen-Gery Corporation Brick manufacturer USA 100% 100% 4 Landmark Stone Products LLC Stone manufacturer USA 100% 100% 4 Redfield Quarry LLC Dormant USA 100% 100% 1 Figgs Topco Limited is owned directly by Ibstock plc.
All other companies are indirectly owned.
The country of incorporation is the same as the place of business for all the above entities.
All entities have the same registered office as the ultimate Parent Company, Leicester Road, Ibstock, Leicestershire LE67 6HS except those subsidiary entities with numerical superscripts.
2 Coppingford Hall, Sawtry, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE28 5GP.
3 47 Esplanade, St Hellier, Jersey, Channel Isles JE1 0BD.
4 1166 Spring Street, Wyomissing, PA 19610, USA.
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements.
The proportion of the voting rights in the subsidiary undertakings held directly by the Parent Company do not differ from the proportion of Ordinary shares held.
The Parent Company does not have any shareholdings in the preference shares of subsidiary undertakings included in the Group.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 136 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 29.
Related party transactions In the year ended 31 December 2017: On 9 March 2017, Diamond BC S. a. r. l a wholly owned subsidiary of Bain Capital Partners LLC announced the proposed placing of approximately 40,600,000 Ordinary shares in the capital of Ibstock plc.
On 10 March 2017, the Company announced that 48,600,000 Ordinary shares were sold due to strong investor demand.
Following the sale, Bain Capital Partners LLC held Ordinary shares representing approximately 25.0% of the entire issued share capital.
On 25 April 2017, Diamond BC S. a. r. l announced the proposed placing of approximately 50,000,000 ordinary shares in the capital of Ibstock plc.
On 26 April 2017, the Company announced that 101,600,000 Ordinary shares were sold due to strong investor demand.
Following the sale, Bain Capital Partners LLC ceased to hold any Ordinary shares in Ibstock plc.
As at 31 December 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company, consider, based on the facts and circumstances, that Bain Capital Partners LLC no longer has significant influence over the Group and is no longer a related party.
There is no ultimate controlling party.
In the year ended 31 December 2016: On 2 September 2016, Diamond BC S. a. r. l a wholly owned subsidiary of Bain Capital Partners LLC announced the sale of 40,500,000 Ordinary shares in the capital of the Group.
Following the sale, Bain Capital Partners LLC held 150,200,435 Ordinary shares representing approximately 37.0% of the entire issued share capital.
As at 31 December 2016 the Board of Directors of the Company, considered, based on the facts and circumstances, that Bain Capital Partners LLC continued to have significant influence over, but did not control, the Group.
See Note 7 for details of key management personnel remuneration.
Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities were provided for on acquisition which took place in the period ended 31 December 2015 in line with IFRS 3.
There are no further contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2017 or 31 December 2016.
Dividends paid and proposed Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 000 000 Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares: Final dividend for 2016: 5.3 pence 2015: 4.4 pence 21,532 17,869 Interim dividend for 2017: 2.6 pence 2016: 2.4 pence 10,566 9,746 32,098 27,615 Proposed not recognised as a liability as at 31 December Equity dividends on Ordinary Shares: Final dividend for 2017: 6.5 pence 2016: 5.3 pence 26,417 21,500 26,417 21,500 The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2017 of 6.5 pence per Ordinary share 2016: 5.3 pence which will distribute an estimated 26,417,000 2016: 21,500,000 of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 8 June 2018 to those shareholders who are on the register at 11 May 2018 subject to approval at the Groups Annual General Meeting.
Post balance sheet events Except for the proposed dividend see Note 31, no further subsequent events requiring further disclosure or adjustments to these financial statements have been identified since the balance sheet date.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 137
