Financial Statements Section 6 Capital Structure and Other Disclosures This section includes details of Cairn's issued share capital and equity reserves.
Other disclosures include details on auditors' remuneration.
Details on the Group's policy on the award of non-audit work to the auditors can be found in the Report of the Audit Committee.
Significant accounting judgements in this section: There are no significant accounting judgements in this section.
Key estimates and assumptions in this section: There are no key estimates or assumptions in this section.
F Called-up share capital Number x x ordinary ordinary Allotted, issued and fully paid ordinary shares e I Issued and allotted for employee share options Issued and allotted to ESOP trust e I Issued and allotted to ESOP trust e % Share premium US$m e I Arising on shares issued for employee share options e % Shares held by ESOP Trust k{ {X % {X % x x Shares held by SIP Trust F{ {X F { % {X F { % x x Foreign currency translation 8 differences arising on intra-group loans are not eliminated on consolidation: this reflects the exposure to currency fluctuations where the subsidiaries involved have differing functional currencies.
These intra-group loans are not considered to be an investment in a foreign operation.
Merger and capital reserves c e {X : x Available-for-sale reserve ` The objective of the Groups capital management structure is to ensure that there remains sufficient liquidity within the Group to carry out committed work programme requirements.
The Group monitors the long-term cash flow requirements of the business in order to assess the requirement for changes to the capital structure to meet that objective and to maintain flexibility.
The Group is subject to quarterly forecast liquidity tests as part of the reserve-based lending facility.
The Group has complied with the capital requirements of this test at all times during the year.
{X e  e 176 ` continued Cairn manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes to economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, Cairn may buy back shares, make a special dividend payment to shareholders, return capital, issue new shares for cash, repay debt, put c % Capital and net debt, including finance lease liabilities, was as follows: US$m Continuing operations Loans and borrowings Finance lease liabilities Less cash and cash equivalents Net debt funds Equity Capital and net funds less payables Gearing ratio : It is normal practice for the Group to issue guarantees in respect of obligations during the normal course of business.
% : k guarantees to each of the lenders.
: % : Parent company guarantees for the Groups obligations under joint operating agreements and other contracts.
e % : : e a k  X kX c % Fees payable to the Groups auditors and their associate firms for: Audit fees: Auditing of the financial statements of the Group and the Company Auditing of the financial statements of subsidiaries Non-audit fees: Audit-related assurance services Other assurance services relating to corporate finance transactions Non-audit services not included above Total fees The Group has a policy in place for the award of non-audit work to the auditors which requires audit committee approval see the Audit Committee  The split of audit fees to non-audit fees payable to the auditors is as follows: 8 8 Non-audit fee US$221,000 Non-audit fee US$328,000 Audit fee Audit fee US$498,000 US$487,000 177
