Section 7 Notes to the Company Financial Statements This section contains the notes to the Company financial statements.
The issued capital and reserves of the Company are largely consistent with Cairn Energy PLC Group financial statements.
Refer to note 6.1 of the Group financial statements.
Key estimates and assumptions in this section: Impairment testing of investments in subsidiaries The Companys investments in Capricorn Oil Limited has been tested for impairment by comparison against the underlying value of the subsidiaries exploration appraisal and development producing assets, held within the Capricorn Oil sub-group, based on fair value less costs of disposal.
The fair z F8 The Company applies consistent accounting policies as applied by the Group.
To the extent that an accounting policy is relevant to both Group and Company financial statements, refer to the Group financial statements for disclosure of the accounting policy.
Material policies that apply to the Company only are included as appropriate.
The net assets in the Company Balance Sheet remain in excess of the Groups total net assets as a result of historic impairment tests.
The Group U c U c value of Senegal assets.
US$m Cash at bank Bank overdraft j US$m Prepayments Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings Other receivables { date the facility is drawn down.
e % % jz US$m Trade and other payables Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings Accruals 181 Financial Statements Section 7 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued 8F Set out below is the comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Companys financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
US$m Financial assets: Carrying amount and fair value Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings Other receivables All of the above financial assets are current and unimpaired.
US$m Financial liabilities: Carrying amount and fair value Amortised cost Trade and other payables Accruals Bank overdraft Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings The fair value of financial assets and liabilities has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Maturity analysis e Financial risk management: risk and objectives : The Company is not exposed to material foreign currency exchange rate risk.
{X e  e 182 F Accounting policy The Companys investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provisions resulting from impairment.
In testing for impairment the carrying value of the investment is compared to its recoverable amount, being its fair value less costs of disposal.
The fair value is based on the discounted future net cash flows of oil and gas assets held by the subsidiary, using estimated cash flow projections over the licence period.
For exploration assets, estimated discounted cash flows are risk-weighted for future exploration success.
Discounted future net cash flows are calculated using an estimated short-term oil price based on the forward curve and long-term oil price 8 Subsidiary undertakings Total US$m Cost e I Additions e % Additions e % Impairment e I Impairment charge e % Net book value e % e % e % e k X of share options of the Company to the employees of Capricorn Energy Limited a principal subsidiary of Capricorn Oil Limited.
At the year end, investments in subsidiaries were reviewed for indicators of impairment and impairment tests conducted where indicators found.
Given that the market capitalisation of Cairn is less than its net book value, impairment tests were conducted on all investments in subsidiaries held by the Company.
183 Financial Statements Section 7 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued F continued the ordinary shares of the following companies: Direct holdings Business Country of incorporation Country of operation Registered office address Capricorn Oil Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland X  B U B X Holding company Scotland Scotland X  B Indirect holdings Capricorn Oil Limited Group Business Country of incorporation Country of operation Registered office address e k : U X Exploration Scotland U X  B Alba Resources Limited Exploration Scotland U X  B Capricorn Americas Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland X  B Capricorn Americas Mexico S. fide R. L. Exploration Mexico Mexico e { {  c fide C. V. { X a %a { Capricorn Brasil Petroleo E Gas LTDA Exploration Brazil Brazil {  I Capricorn Energy Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland X  B Capricorn Energy Mexico S. fide R. L. Exploration Mexico Mexico e { {  c fide C. V. { X a %a { Capricorn Energy Search Limited Exploration Scotland Scotland X  B Capricorn Exploration and Development Exploration Scotland Morocco X  B Company Limited Capricorn Exploration Limited Non-trading Scotland Non-trading X  B : Holding company Scotland Scotland X  B Limited Capricorn Greenland Exploration A S Exploration Greenland Greenland } c : Capricorn Ireland Limited Exploration Scotland Republic of X  B Ireland Capricorn Malta Limited Exploration Scotland Malta X  B Capricorn Mauritania Limited Exploration Scotland Mauritania X  B Capricorn Norge AS Exploration Norway Norway {k Capricorn Oil and Gas Tunisia GmbH Non-trading Switzerland Nonx e: : trading { B Capricorn Petroleum Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland X  B Capricorn Resources Management Royalty interest Scotland Mongolia X  B Limited Capricorn Senegal Limited Exploration Scotland Senegal X  B Capricorn Spain Limited Exploration Scotland Spain X  B Nautical Holdings Limited Holding company England U 8 X I } Nautical Italia SRL Exploration Italy Italy { { a  Nautical Petroleum AG Production Switzerland U Nautical Petroleum Limited Exploration and England U 8 X Development I } Transunion Petroleum Italia SRL Exploration Italy Italy { { a  eB X Holding company England U 8 X I } company is in the process of liquidation.
e ` {X e  e 184 Capital and net debt were made up as follows: US$m Cash and cash equivalents Net funds debt Equity Capital and net debt Gearing ratio z companies at the balance sheet date: US$m Amounts payable to subsidiary undertakings Amounts receivable from subsidiary undertakings The amounts outstanding are unsecured and repayable on demand and will be settled in cash.
The following table provides the Companys transactions with subsidiary companies recorded in the loss for the year: US$m Amounts invoiced to subsidiaries Amounts invoiced by subsidiaries Directors remuneration The remuneration of the directors of the Company is set out below.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in %   US$m Emoluments Share-based payments { XF{ vesting date of these awards.
