Glossary of Alternative Performance Measures Within the Annual Report and Accounts various alternative performance measures APMs are disclosed.
An APM is a measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows which is not defined by the relevant financial reporting framework, which for the Group is International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
APMs are used to provide greater insight into the performance of the Group and the way it is managed by the Directors.
The table below defines each APM, explains why it is used and, if applicable, where the APM has been reconciled to IFRS: Reconciliation to the APM Definition Why is this measure used?
financial statements Solvency II net Based on IFRS Net Assets, but with the following Our ability to satisfy our liabilities Refer to page 35. assets adjustments: to clients, and consequently our solvency, is central to our 1.
Reflection of the recognition requirements of the business.
By removing the Solvency II regulations for assets and liabilities.
In liabilities which are fully matched particular this removes deferred acquisition costs by assets, this presentation DAC, deferred income DIR, purchased value of allows the reader to focus on the in-force PVIF and their associated deferred tax business operation.
It also balances, other intangibles and some other small items provides a simpler comparison which are treated as inadmissible from a regulatory with other wealth management perspective: and companies.
Adjustment to remove the matching client assets and the liabilities as these do not represent shareholder assets.
No adjustment is made to deferred tax, except for that arising on DAC, DIR and PVIF, as this is treated as an allowable asset in the Solvency II regulation.
Cash result, The Cash result is defined as the movement between the IFRS income statement Refer to pages 32 and Underlying cash opening and closing Solvency II net assets adjusted for the methodology recognises 37 and also see Note 3 result and following items: non-cash items such as Segment Profit.
Operating cash deferred tax and share options.
The movement in deferred tax is removed to reflect just By contrast, dividends can only the cash realisation from the deferred tax position: be paid to shareholders from 2.
T he movements in goodwill and other intangibles, which appropriately fungible assets.
are excluded from the Solvency II net assets, are The Board therefore uses the re-instated in the Cash result: and cash results to monitor the level 3.
Other changes in equity, such as dividends paid in the of cash generated by the year and share option costs, are excluded.
While the Cash result gives an The Operating cash result reflects the regular emergence absolute measure of the cash of cash from the business operations.
generated in the year, the Underlying and Operating cash The Underlying cash result additionally reflects the cash results are particularly useful for impact of the strategic investments we are making.
monitoring the expected long-term rate of cash Finally, the Cash result reflects all other cash items, emergence, which supports including those whose emergence is volatile, varying over dividends and sustainable time and often influenced by markets, together with the dividend growth.
short-term costs associated with the back-office infrastructure project.
Neither the cash result nor the underlying cash result should be confused with the IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows which is prepared in accordance with IAS 7.
Underlying cash These EPS measures are calculated as Underlying cash As Underlying cash is the best Not applicable.
basic and diluted divided by the number of shares used in the calculation of reflection of the cash generated earnings per share IFRS basic and diluted EPS.
by the business, Underlying cash EPS EPS measures allow analysis of the shareholder cash generated by the business by share.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 204 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Reconciliation to the APM Definition Why is this measure used?
financial statements Total embedded A discounted cash flow valuation methodology, assessing Life business and wealth Not applicable.
value the long-term economic value of the business.
management business differ from most other businesses, in Our embedded value is determined in line with the EEV that the expected shareholder principles, originally set out by the Chief Financial Officers income from the sale of a CFO Forum in 2004, and amended for subsequent product emerges over a long changes to the principles, including those published in period in the future.
We therefore April 2016, following the implementation of Solvency II.
complement the IFRS and cash results by providing additional disclosure on an Embedded Value basis, which brings into account the net present value of expected future cash flows, as we believe that a measure of total economic value of the Group is useful to investors.
EEV profit Derived as the movement in the Total EEV during the year.
Both the IFRS and Cash results See Note 3 Segment reflect only the cash flows in the Profit.
However our business is long term, and activity in the year can generate business with a long-term value.
We therefore believe it is helpful to understand the full economic impact of activity in the year, which is the aim of the EEV methodology.
EEV operating A discounted cash flow valuation methodology, assessing Both the IFRS and cash results See Note 3 Segment profit the long-term economic value of the business.
reflect only the cash flows in the Profit.
However, our business is Our embedded value is determined in line with the EEV long term, and activity in the year principles, originally set out by the Chief Financial Officers can generate business with a CFO Forum in 2004, and amended for subsequent long-term value.
We therefore changes to the principles, including those published in believe it is helpful to understand April 2016, following the implementation of Solvency II.
the full economic impact of The EEV operating profit reflects the total EEV result with activity in the year, which is the an adjustment to strip out the impact of stock market and aim of the EEV methodology.
other economic effects during the year.
Within the EEV, many of the future cash flows derive from fund charges, which change with movements in stock markets.
Since the impact of these changes is typically unrelated to the performance of the business, we believe that the EEV operating profit reflecting the EEV profit, adjusted to reflect only the expected investment performance and no change in economic basis provides the most useful measure of embedded value performance in the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 205 Glossary of Alternative Performance Measures continued Reconciliation to the APM Definition Why is this measure used?
financial statements EEV operating These EPS measures are calculated as EEV operating As EEV operating profit is the Not applicable.
profit basic and profit after tax divided by the number of shares used in the best reflection of the EEV diluted earnings calculation of IFRS basic and diluted EPS.
generated by the business, EEV per share EPS operating profit EPS measures allow analysis of the long-term value generated by the business by share.
Net asset value EEV net asset value per share is calculated as the EEV net Total embedded value provides a Not applicable.
per share EEV assets divided by the year end number of ordinary shares.
measure of total economic value of the Group, and assessing the NAV per share allows analysis of the overall value of the Group byshare.
Policyholder and Shareholder tax is estimated by making an assessment of The UK tax regime facilitates the Disclosed as separate Shareholder tax the effective rate of tax that is applicable to the collection of tax from life line items in the shareholders on the profits attributable to the insurance policyholders by statement of shareholders.
This is calculated by applying the making an equivalent charge comprehensive income appropriate effective corporate tax rates to the shareholder within the corporate tax of the on page 126. profits.
The total tax charge for the insurance companies The remainder of the tax charge represents tax on therefore comprises both this policyholders investment returns.
element and an element more This calculation method is consistent with the legislation closely related to normal corporation tax.
relating to the calculation of the tax on shareholdersprofits.
Life insurance business impacted by this tax typically includes policy charges which align with the tax liability, to mitigate the impact on the corporate.
As a result when policyholder tax increases, the charges also increase.
Given these offsetting items can be large, and typically dont perform in line with the business, it is beneficial to be able to identify the two elements separately.
We therefore refer to that part of the overall tax charge, which is deemed attributable to policyholders, as policyholder tax, and the rest as shareholder tax.
Profit before A profit measure which reflects the IFRS result adjusted The IFRS methodology requires Disclosed as a separate shareholder tax for policyholder tax, but before deduction of shareholder that the tax recognised in the line item in the tax.
Within the consolidated statement of comprehensive financial statements should statement of income the full title of this measure is Profit before tax include the tax incurred on behalf comprehensive income attributable to shareholders' returns.
of policyholders in our UK life on page 126. assurance company.
Since the policyholder tax charge is unrelated to the performance of the business, we believe it is also useful to separately identify the profit before shareholder tax, which reflects the IFRS profit before tax, adjusted only for tax paid on behalf of policyholders.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 206 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Reconciliation to the APM Definition Why is this measure used?
financial statements Underlying profit A profit measure which reflects the IFRS result adjusted to The IFRS methodology promotes Refer to page 32. remove the DAC, DIR and PVIF adjustments.
recognition of profits in line with the provision of services and so, for long-term business, some of the initial cash flows are spread over the life of the contract through the use of intangible assets and liabilities DAC and DIR.
Due to the retail distribution review RDR regulation change in 2013, there was a step change in the progression of these items in our accounts, which resulted in significant accounting presentation changes despite the fundamentals of our verticallyintegrated business remaining unchanged.
We therefore believe it is useful to consider the IFRS result having removed the impact of movements in these intangibles as it better reflects the underlying performance of the business.
Net asset value IFRS net asset value per share is calculated as the IFRS Total IFRS net assets provides a Not applicable.
per share IFRS net assets divided by the year-end number of ordinary measure of value of the Group, shares.
and assessing the NAV per share allows analysis of the overall value of the Group by share.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 207 Glossary DST SYSTEMS DST ADMINISTRATION PLATFORM, ALSO BLUEDOOR A provider of investor and policyholder, administration and A new client-centric administration system, being developed in technology services, formerly known as International Financial Data conjunction with our third party outsourced administration Services IFDS.
DST is our third party outsourced provider, provider, DST.
responsible for the administration of our UK life insurance company, ADVISER OR FINANCIAL ADVISER SJPUK, our unit trust manager, SJPUTG, and our investment An individual who is authorised by an appropriate regulatory administration company, SJPIA.
authority to provide financial advice.
In the UK our advisers are EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE EEV authorised by the FCA.
EEV reflects the fact that the expected shareholder income from the CAPITA sale of wealth management products emerges over a long period of A provider of business process outsourcing and integrated time by bringing into account the net present value of the expected professional support service solutions, which is our third party future cash flows.
EEV is calculated in accordance with the EEV outsourced provider, responsible for the administration of our principles originally issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Dublin-based life insurance company, SJPI.
Officers Forum CFO Forum, supplemented in both October 2005 and, following the introduction of Solvency II, in April 2016.
CHIEF OPERATING DECISION MAKER CODM The Executive Committee of the Board Executive Board which is FIELD MANAGEMENT TEAM FMT responsible for allocating resources and assessing the performance The team of managers within St. Jamess Place with day to day of the operating segments.
responsibility for support and supervision of the Partnership.
CLIENT ADVOCACY FINANCIAL CONDUCT AUTHORITY FCA The Company requests feedback from clients biennially through a The FCA is a company limited by guarantee and is independent of survey distributed alongside the Wealth Account.
Advocacy is the Bank of England.
It is responsible for the conduct of business measured by the response to the question Would you recommend regulation of all firms including those firms subject to prudential SJP services to others?.
The potential responses distinguish regulation by the PRA and the prudential regulation of all firms not between Yes, and have done so already, Yes, but have yet to do so regulated by the PRA.
The FCA has three statutory objectives: and No.
securing an appropriate degree of protection for consumers, protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial system, CLIENT NUMBERS and promoting effective competition in the interests of consumers.
The number of individuals who have received advice from a St. Jamess Place Partner and own a St. Jamess Place wrapper.
FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPENSATION SCHEME FSCS The FSCS is the UKs statutory compensation scheme for customers CLIENT RETENTION of authorised financial services firms.
This means that the FSCS can Client retention is assessed by calculating the proportion of clients at pay compensation if a firm is unable, or is likely to be unable, to pay 1 January in the year who remain as a client throughout the year and claims against it.
The FSCS is an independent body, set up under the are still a client on 31 December of the same year.
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA, and funded by a levy on authorised financial services firms.
The scheme covers COMPANY deposits, insurance policies, insurance brokering, investments, The Company refers to St. Jamess Place plc, which is also referred mortgages and mortgage arrangement.
to as St. Jamess Place, St. Jamess Place plc and SJP throughout the Annual Report and Accounts.
FUNDS UNDER MANAGEMENT FUM Represents all assets actively managed or administered by or on DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS DAC behalf of the Group, including all life insurance and unit trust An intangible asset required to be established through the assets, but not assets managed by third parties where we have application of IFRS to our long-term business.
The value of the asset only introduced or advised on the business.
Assets managed by is equal to the amount of all costs which accrue in line with new Rowan Dartington count as funds under management from the business volumes.
The asset is amortised over the expected lifetime date of acquisition.
GROSS INFLOWS DEFERRED INCOME DIR Total new funds under management accepted in the period.
New Deferred income which arises from the requirement in IFRS that funds accepted by Rowan Dartington count for Gross Inflows from initial charges on long-term financial instruments should only be the date of acquisition.
recognised over the lifetime of the business.
The initial amount of the balance is equal to the charge taken.
GROUP The Group refers to the Company together with its subsidiaries as DISCRETIONARY FUND MANAGEMENT DFM listed in Note 21.
A generic term for a form of investment management in which buy and sell decisions are made or assisted by a portfolio manager for a INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL clients account.
Within St. Jamess Place, the services provided by REPORTING STANDARDS IFRS Rowan Dartington including investment management, advisory These are accounting regulations issued by the International stockbroking and wealth planning are collectively referred to as Accounting Standards Board IASB designed to ensure comparable Discretionary Fund Management, distinguishing them from the preparation and disclosure of statements of financial position, and services provided by our Partners and from the IMA.
are the standards that all publicly listed companies in the European Union are required to use.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 208 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH IMA SOLVENCY II The IMA is how St. Jamess Place manages clients investments.
It is Insurance regulations designed to harmonise EU insurance managed by the St. Jamess Place Investment Committee, which in regulation which became effective on 1 January 2016.
The key turn is advised by respected independent investment research concerns of the regulation are to ensure robust risk management in consultancies, including Stamford Associates, Redington and AON insurance companies and to use that understanding of risk to help Consulting.
The Investment Committee is responsible for identifying determine the right amount of capital for European insurance fund managers for our funds, selecting from fund management firms companies to hold to ensure their ongoing viability in all but the most all around the world.
They are also responsible for monitoring the severe stressed scenarios.
performance of our fund managers, and, if circumstances should ST. JAMESS PLACE CHARITABLE FOUNDATION change and it becomes necessary, then they are responsible for The independent grant making charity established at the same time changing the fund manager as well.
More information about the Charitable MATURITIES Foundation can be found on pages 63 to 67 or on the website Those sums paid out where the plan has reached the intended, www.
pre-selected, maturity event e. g. retirement.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PARTNER NET INFLOWS A member of the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
Specifically, the Gross Inflows less the amount of funds under management individual or business that is registered as an Appointed withdrawn by clients during the same period.
The Net Inflows is the Representative of St. Jamess Place on the FCA website.
St. Jamess growth in funds under management not attributable to Place Partner businesses vary in size and structure.
traders but there are also a growing number of businesses employing many advisers.
POLICYHOLDER AND SHAREHOLDER TAX The UK tax regime facilitates the collection of tax from life insurance ST. JAMESS PLACE PARTNERSHIP policyholders by making an equivalent charge within the corporate The collective name for all of our advisers, who are Appointed tax of the Company.
This part of the overall tax charge, which is Representatives of St. Jamess Place.
attributable to policyholders, is called policyholder tax.
The rest is STATE STREET shareholder tax.
State Street is a global financial services holding company offering PRUDENTIAL REGULATORY AUTHORITY PRA custodian services, investment management services, and The PRA is a part of the Bank of England and is responsible for the investment research and trading services.
State Street is responsible prudential regulation of deposit taking institutions, insurers and for the custody of the majority of the St. Jamess Place assets, and major investment firms.
The PRA has two statutory objectives: to also provides other investment management services.
promote the safety and soundness of these firms and, specifically for SURRENDERS AND PART SURRENDERS insurers, to contribute to the securing of an appropriate degree of Those amounts where clients have chosen to withdraw money from protection for policyholders.
their plan which were not pre-selected regular income withdrawals PURCHASED VALUE OF IN-FORCE PVIF ormaturities.
An intangible asset established on takeover or acquisition, reflecting the present value of the expected emergence of profits from a portfolio of long-term business.
The asset is amortised in line with the emergence of profits.
REGISTERED INDIVIDUALS RI An individual who is registered by the FCA, particularly an individual who is registered to provide financial advice.
See also Adviser and St. Jamess Place Partner.
REGULAR INCOME WITHDRAWALS Those amounts, pre-selected by clients, which are paid out by way of periodic income.
RETIREMENT ACCOUNT RA A pension product, launched during 2016, which incorporates both pre-retirement pension saving and post-retirement benefit receipts in the same investment product.
ROWAN DARTINGTON A wealth management business providing investment management, advisory stockbroking and wealth planning services acquired by St. Jamess Place during 2016.
209 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 S St t. Ja.
Jam me es s''s P s Pl la ac ce p e pl lc c ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC St. Jamess Place House 1 Tetbury Road Cirencester Gloucestershire GL7 1FP T: 0800 01 38 137 www.
