Section 5 Taxation This section highlights the Group's taxation policies, including both the accounting policy and wider strategy and governance policies.
Analysis is provided of the Group's income statement charges and credits and deferred tax movements through the balance sheet.
This section also includes details of the contingent liability relating to the Indian Tax dispute currently subject to international arbitration proceedings.
Significant accounting judgements in this section: Deferred taxation At each reporting date, Cairn reviews unused tax losses and allowances to assess whether it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise these losses and allowances and whether or not a deferred tax asset should be recognised.
e % Contingent liability Indian tax Cairn is resolutely defending the Groups tax position in India following the assessment order and tax demand notice issued by the Indian Income Tax % 8 e Based on detailed legal advice, no provision is made in the financial statements for any claim made by the Indian Income Tax Department.
Full details Key estimates and assumptions in this section: Future taxable profits used in determining whether it is appropriate to recognise a deferred tax asset are based on the key assumptions used in % Accounting policy The total tax charge or credit represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
The current tax credit is based on the taxable loss for the year.
Taxable profit or loss differs from net profit or loss as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
In Norway, tax refunds may be claimed on qualifying exploration activities and related overhead costs: the tax refundable is included as a tax credit in the period in which the qualifying expenditure is incurred.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences that exist only where it is probable that taxable profits will be generated against which the carrying value of the deferred tax asset can be recovered.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint operations where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax asset or liability is not recognised if a temporary difference arises on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
However, where the recognition of an asset is associated with an interest in a joint operation, which applies to all Cairns intangible exploration appraisal asset and property, plant & equipment development producing asset additions, and Cairn is not able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference or the temporary difference is expected to reverse in the foreseeable future, a deferred tax asset or liability shall be recognised.
Current and deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
171 Financial Statements Section 5 Taxation continued : The Groups tax strategy is fully aligned with its overarching business objectives and principles.
In its approach to tax Cairn aims to be a good corporate citizen, managing its tax affairs in a transparent and responsible manner in all the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Cairn is committed to having open and constructive relationships with all tax authorities.
8 : U % no taxable profits this year and it is unlikely that any taxable profits will be realised for several years.
Taxable profits in other jurisdictions, where Cairns assets are at various stages of the value creation cycle, are also minimal and as a result there were no cash payments of corporation taxes made Cairn undertakes tax planning that supports the business and reflects commercial and economic activity.
The Groups policy is to not enter into any artificial tax avoidance schemes but to build and maintain strong collaborative working relationships with all relevant tax authorities based on transparency and integrity.
The Group aims for certainty in relation to the tax treatment of all items: however, it is acknowledged that this will not always be possible, for example where transactions are complex or there is a lack of maturity in the tax regime in the relevant jurisdiction in which the Group is operating.
In such circumstances Cairn will seek external advice where appropriate and ensure that the approach adopted in any relevant tax return includes full disclosure of the position taken.
zw Analysis of tax credit on profit for the year US$m Current tax credit: Norwegian tax refunds receivable Deferred tax charge credit : Norwegian deferred tax charges Release of provision on carried interests due to change in tax rate U Deferred tax liability on recognition of financial assets Recycled from other comprehensive income on derecuperation of financial assets Total deferred tax charge credit Total tax credit on profit loss Tax included in other comprehensive income: Deferred tax charge on valuation of financial assets Deferred tax charge on valuation movement recycled to income statement Total tax charge in other comprehensive income c % U to offset this deferred tax liability.
Deferred tax movements through the income statement on the recognition and disposal of financial assets, and deferred tax movements through other comprehensive income on the valuation of financial assets, represent the deferred tax impact of movements in the year in respect of the shares : X F X e F X % {X e  e 172 zw continued Factors affecting tax credit for the year e U : income tax rate is as follows: US$m Profit loss before taxation {x U Effect of: Special tax rates and reliefs applying to oil and gas activities Impact of increase in available investment allowance Impact on current tax of adjustments in respect of prior year Impact on deferred tax of adjustments in respect of prior year Impact of exceptional provision against finance income Temporary differences not recognised Release of provision on carried interests due to change in tax rate Foreign exchange movements Other Total tax credit on profit loss U U e U : U % U c c U U c U 8 Group held in Cairn India Limited now Vedanta Limited : and U recognised.
These are offset by: U U  8 through the income statement.
X U F c c 173 Financial Statements Section 5 Taxation continued % X Reconciliation of movement in deferred tax assets liabilities : Temporary difference in respect of Other non-current temporary assets Losses differences Total US$m Deferred tax assets e I Exchange differences arising Deferred tax credit through income statement Deferred tax movement on additions to development assets in respect of carried interests e I Exchange differences arising Deferred tax credit through income statement Deferred tax movement on additions to development assets in respect of carried interests e % Deferred tax liabilities e I Exchange differences arising Deferred tax charge through income statement e I Exchange differences arising Deferred tax charge through income statement Deferred tax charge to comprehensive income e % US$m Deferred tax liabilities analysed by country India Norway Total deferred tax liability e : X F Recognised deferred tax assets e U U U 8 to recover the value of the asset given the detrimental change in market conditions continuing to impact the oil and gas industry.
e c c arising from business combinations and expenditure on assets for which current tax refunds have been claimed.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets No deferred tax asset has been recognised on the following as it is not considered probable that it will be utilised in future periods: US$m U U  8 U 8 U 8 U U U U Senegal fixed asset temporary differences Greenlandic tax losses Temporary differences in respect of available-for-sale financial assets {X e  e 174 e : U  8 U  8 e  8 c U  8 as it is not considered probable that this amount will be utilised in future periods.
U  8 U developments which will reduce future Ring Fence profits subject to supplementary charge.
XF F I U B X BX {X F F % FF% F X FX Fc F FF% : F{k FX F FF% 8 e FX X BX FX X FF% BX FX e % BX X Fc F BX X FF% BX Fc FF% Fc BX classified as a contingent asset where the inflow of economic benefits was considered less than probable.
FF% BX BX F BX X BX BX FF% Fc F 8 FF% F { BX that penalties should not be charged given the retrospective nature of the tax levied.
The Group has legal advice confirming that the maximum amount that could ultimately be recovered from Cairn by the IITD is limited to the value BX X F a c % UF F FF% I treatment and protections against expropriation afforded by the Treaty have been breached by the actions of the IITD, which is seeking to apply retrospective taxes to historical transactions already closely scrutinised and approved by the Government of India.
The IITD has attached and seized assets to try to enforce such taxation.
Cairns plea is therefore that the effects of the tax assessment should be nullified and Cairn should receive F BX FX I  F I  F 8 e F e and the tribunals ruling issued expeditiously thereafter.
Based on detailed legal advice, Cairn is confident that it will be successful in this arbitration, and accordingly, no provision has been made for any of the tax or penalties assessed by the IITD.
