Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards 118 St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S Str tra at te egi gic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 120 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of St. Jamess Place plc 126 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 127 Consolidated Statement of Changes inEquity 128 Consolidated Statement of FinancialPosition 129 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 130 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc Independent auditors report to the members of St. Jamess Place plc REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: St. Jamess Place plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and the Parent Company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, and the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 17.0 million 2016: 24.3 million, based on 5% of profit before tax.
Overall Parent Company materiality: 10.1 million 2016: 8.6 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Audit scope The Group financial statements comprise the consolidation of approximately 60 individual components, each of which represents an individual legal entity within the Group or consolidation adjustments.
We assessed each component and considered the contribution it made to the Groups profit before tax, whether it displayed any significant risk characteristics and or whether it contributed a significant amount to any individual financial statement line item.
The above assessment resulted in us identifying eight components that required audit procedures for the purpose of the audit of the Group financial statements.
Seven of the eight components are based in the UK and were audited by the PwC UK audit team.
The remaining component is based in the Republic of Ireland and was audited by PwC Dublin.
By performing audit procedures on these eight components we achieved coverage greater than 85% of each material financial statement line item within the Groups financial statements.
We performed a full scope audit of all material line items of the Parent Company.
Key audit matters Valuation of the prepayment asset in respect of the development of an administration platform at an outsourced provider.
Valuation of investments with a judgemental valuation, being investment property and derivatives.
We identified no key audit matters regarding the audit of the Parent Company.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 120 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Scope of our Audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Parent Company financial statements, including the Companies Act 2006, tax legislation and the Prudential Regulation Authoritys Solvency II regulations.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, enquiries of management, review of minutes of meetings of those charged with governance for the Group and significant components and review of significant components audit work.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of the prepayment asset in respect of the development of an In testing whether the asset was valued appropriately and whether an administration platform at an outsourced provider impairment was necessary we: The Group is charged costs by DST Systems Limited DST in respect of agreed amounts capitalised in the year back to the service a new policy administration platform.
These costs are recognised as a agreement and cash payments to DST: and prepayment to be unwound over the duration of the related service assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions underlying agreement with DST.
The balance of the prepayment asset at 31 managements discounted cash flow analysis calculating the December 2017 was 170.6 million.
anticipated future cost savings that support the valuation of the asset.
The maximum prepayment that can be recognised is capped at the net present value of future cost savings.
We tested that the cost savings had been calculated using appropriate service tariffs.
We performed a sensitivity analysis on the inflation and Due to the nature and magnitude of the amount arising from the discount rate assumptions as well as business flow levels to determine contractual terms, the valuation of the prepayment asset was an area of the potential impact of changes in these assumptions to check audit focus.
whether they would affect the carrying value of the asset this year.
We also considered the headroom available under what we considered to be reasonably possible scenarios and whether additional disclosure was necessary.
We determined that the disclosure of the asset in the financial statements was supported by the evidence obtained.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 121 Independent auditors report to the members of St. Jamess Place plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of investments with a judgemental valuation, being investment Financial assets including derivatives property and derivatives Our audit procedures focused on the evidence available over the The Group financial statements include 80.1 billion of investments.
The processes outsourced to State Street.
investments are mostly straight forward instruments and as such do not require judgement in calculating the valuation of the holdings.
We obtained and read the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3402 Assurance Reports on Controls at a However 1.8 billion of the investments are in derivatives and investment Service Organisation for State Streets Global Fund Accounting and properties, which require management to use estimates and Custody operations, which provided a description of the systems and judgements in order to calculate the year-end valuation.
Due to the controls in place and the results of testing of the operational magnitude of these balances and the level of judgement involved, this effectiveness of those controls.
was an area of focus for our audit.
We placed reliance on the controls described in the ISAE 3402 report SJP outsources investment valuation activities for financial assets, over the valuation of the financial investments within the portfolio.
including derivatives, to State Street.
The investment property portfolio is managed by Orchard Street, with title deeds held by DLA Piper and We independently re-priced a sample of investments, including regular valuations are performed by CBRE.
derivatives as at the year end.
We compared our independent prices to those provided by State Street.
Investment properties: We reconciled the listing of properties valued by CBRE to details provided by Orchard Street and also agreed the total valuation to that recorded by St. Jamess Place.
We engaged our in house real estate valuation experts to review the methodology and key assumptions used by CBRE in valuing the property portfolio.
We also agreed factual inputs to the calculations, such as rental income, to tenancy agreements on a sample basis.
From the evidence obtained we found the assumptions and methodology used to value investments to be appropriate.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Parent Company to communicate in our report.
How we Tailored the Audit Scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is structured to reflect its vertically integrated wealth management business and operates predominantly within the UnitedKingdom.
Four of the components within the Group required an audit of their complete financial information.
Of these, two components St. Jamess Place UK plc and St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited were considered financially significant as they each contributed greater than 15% of the Groups profit before tax.
The remaining two components St. Jamess Place International plc and the St. Jamess Place Unit Trusts had specific risk characteristics which led us to include in our scope an audit of their complete financial information.
St. Jamess Place International plc is a regulated insurance company giving rise to complex accounting entries, such as the calculation of insurance reserves and DAC and DIR balances.
The St. Jamess Place Unit Trusts contribute materially to investments, some of which require judgemental valuations.
All components aside from St. Jamess Place International plc were audited by PwC UK.
St. Jamess Place International plc is incorporated and regulated in the Republic of Ireland and was audited by PwC Dublin.
At the planning stage of the audit we provided written instructions to PwC Dublin to confirm the work we required them to complete and the materiality level they should work to.
We held regular phone calls and or meetings with the PwC Dublin engagement leader and senior manager through the planning, execution and completion phases of the audit to inform them of developments at a Group level and to understand from them any local developments that were relevant for our audit of the Group.
During the execution phase we obtained access to their electronic audit working papers and reviewed selected elements of their work, focusing on their work to address the significant and elevated risks identified.
In addition to the full scope audit of the four components noted above, we also performed specific audit procedures on certain financial statement line items within four other components.
These financial statement line items were selected for testing to ensure that we had sufficient coverage of each financial statement line item within the Group financial statements.
Together with additional procedures performed at a Group level on the consolidation, the result of the above scoping was that we achieved greater than 85% coverage of each material financial statement line item within the Group financial statements, giving us the evidence we needed for our audit opinion.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 122 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall materiality 17.0 million 2016: 24.3 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Profit before tax is a generally accepted auditing The purpose of the Parent Company is to hold benchmark.
investments in other Group companies.
As such PwC considers it appropriate to use total assets as the benchmark for overall materiality.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 4.2 million and 15.7 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.9 million Group audit 2016: 1.0 million and 0.4 million Parent Company audit 2016: 0.4 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
In accordance with guidance on the audit of insurers issued in the United Kingdom issued by the Financial Reporting Council we have applied a higher materiality of 475.0 million solely for the purpose of identifying and evaluating the effect of misstatements that are likely only to lead to a reclassification between line items within assets and liabilities.
Going Concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial ability to continue as a going concern.
statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 123 Independent auditors report to the members of St. Jamess Place plc continued Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 89 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 75 to 77 with respect to the Parent Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent company.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 79 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 48 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 86, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 85 to 86 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 124 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 117, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 7 December 2009 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is nine years, covering the years ended 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2017.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 February 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 125 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December Note 2017 2016 Million Million Insurance premium income 49.9 52.2 Less premiums ceded to reinsurers 29.6 31.5 Net insurance premium income 20.3 20.7 Fee and commission income 4 1,779.8 1,703.9 Investment return 6 7,282.5 9,630.1 Net income 9,082.6 11,354.7 Policy claims and benefits Gross amount 61.1 62.7 Reinsurers share 23.3 21.7 Net policyholder claims and benefits incurred 37.8 41.0 Change in insurance contract liabilities Gross amount 26.5 64.6 Reinsurers share 2.3 4.1 Net change in insurance contract liabilities 24.2 60.5 Movement in investment contract benefits 6 7,210.9 9,541.8 Expenses 5 1,467.6 1,225.1 Profit before tax 3 342.1 486.3 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 7 156.0 345.7 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 186.1 140.6 Total tax expense 7 196.3 374.6 Less: tax attributable to policyholders returns 7 156.0 345.7 Tax attributable to shareholders returns 7 40.3 28.9 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 145.8 111.7 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 0.1 0.5 Profit attributable to equity shareholders 145.9 112.2 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 145.8 111.7 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 18 27.8 21.5 Diluted earnings per share 18 27.4 21.3 The results relate to continuing operations.
The notes and information below and on pages 130 to 179 form part of these consolidated financial statements.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no statement of comprehensive income is presented for the Company.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 126 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Equity attributable owners of the Parent Shares in NonShare Share Trust Retained Misc controlling Note Capital Premium Reserve Earnings Reserves Total Interests Total Equity Million Million Million Million Million Million Million Million At 1 January 2016 78.7 158.3 18.5 874.6 2.3 1,095.4 0.3 1,095.1 Profit loss and total comprehensive income expense for the year 112.2 112.2 0.5 111.7 Dividends 18 155.2 155.2 155.2 Issue of share capital 18 0.9 0.9 0.9 Exercise of options 18 0.4 5.3 5.7 5.7 Consideration paid for own shares 5.5 5.5 5.5 Shares sold during the year 3.1 3.1 Misc reserves on acquisition 0.2 0.2 0.2 Retained earnings credit in respect of share option charges 22.7 22.7 22.7 At 31 December 2016 79.1 164.5 20.9 851.2 2.5 1,076.4 0.8 1,075.6 Profit loss and total comprehensive income expense for the year 145.9 145.9 0.1 145.8 Dividends 18 190.0 190.0 190.0 Issue of share capital 18 0.1 4.1 4.2 4.2 Exercise of options 18 0.2 3.1 3.3 3.3 Consideration paid for own shares 11.3 11.3 11.3 Shares sold during the year 5.5 5.5 Retained earnings credit in respect of share option charges 30.5 30.5 30.5 At 31 December 2017 79.4 171.7 26.7 832.1 2.5 1,059.0 0.9 1,058.1 The number of shares held in the Shares in Trust Reserve is given in Note 18 Share Capital, Earnings per Share and Dividends on page 169.
Miscellaneous reserves represent other non-distributable reserves.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 127 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position As at As at 31 December 31 December Note 2017 2016 Million Million Assets Goodwill 8 15.6 13.8 Deferred acquisition costs 8 623.0 684.8 Intangible assets Purchased value of in-force business 8 27.2 30.4 Computer software 8 2.4 3.0 Property and equipment 9 26.4 23.1 Deferred tax assets 7 182.7 199.9 Reinsurance assets 13 82.8 80.5 Other receivables 11 1,620.0 1,473.0 Investments Investment property 10 1,630.9 1,462.4 Equities 10 55,086.9 46,598.7 1 Fixed income securities 10 17,180.7 12,955.7 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 10 5,903.4 3,864.8 1 Derivative financial instruments 10 343.4 218.9 Cash and cash equivalents 10 7,280.6 7,413.1 Total assets 90,006.0 75,022.1 Liabilities Borrowings 15 279.9 281.4 Deferred tax liabilities 7 546.8 614.8 Insurance contract liabilities 13 544.6 518.2 Deferred income 8 646.3 647.6 Other provisions 14 20.0 17.1 Other payables 12 1,231.2 1,173.6 Investment contract benefits 10 64,014.3 53,307.1 Derivative financial instruments 10 190.3 281.9 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 10 21,349.1 17,032.0 Income tax liabilities 7 125.3 72.7 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 Total liabilities 88,947.9 73,946.5 Net assets 1,058.1 1,075.6 Shareholders equity Share capital 18 79.4 79.1 Share premium 171.7 164.5 Shares in trust reserve 26.7 20.9 Miscellaneous reserves 2.5 2.5 Retained earnings 832.1 851.2 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent 1,059.0 1,076.4 Non-controlling interests 0.9 0.8 Total equity 1,058.1 1,075.6 Pence Pence Net assets per share 200.0 203.9 1 Fixed income securities and derivative financial assets have been represented in the comparative to reclassify collateralised mortgage obligations.
See Note 10 Investments, Investment Property and Cash for further information.
The financial statements on pages 126 to 179 were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Andrew Croft Craig Gentle Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer The notes and information on pages 130 to 179 form part of these financial statements.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 128 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December Note 2017 2016 Million Million Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax for the year 342.1 486.3 Adjustments for: Amortisation of purchased value of in-force business 8 3.2 3.2 Amortisation of computer software 8 0.9 3.4 Depreciation 9 5.2 4.4 Share-based payment charge 19 32.7 23.9 Interest income 23.7 26.6 Interest expense 4.9 4.9 Increase in provisions 14 2.9 1.7 Exchange rate losses gains 1.1 3.3 Changes in operating assets and liabilities Decrease in deferred acquisition costs 8 61.8 60.2 Increase in investment property 168.5 117.5 Increase in other investments 14,876.2 13,109.6 Increase decrease in reinsurance assets 2.3 4.5 Increase in other receivables 146.0 464.4 Increase in insurance contract liabilities 26.4 54.6 Increase in financial liabilities excluding borrowings 10,615.8 10,207.8 Decrease increase in deferred income 8 1.3 234.1 Increase in other payables 48.8 407.8 Increase in net assets attributable to unit holders 4,317.1 4,475.6 Cash generated from operating activities 244.9 2,251.0 Interest received 23.7 26.6 Interest paid 4.9 4.9 Income taxes paid 181.3 87.7 Net cash generated from operating activities 82.4 2,185.0 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of property and equipment 9 8.6 19.6 Acquisition of intangible assets 8 0.3 2.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other business combinations, net of cash acquired 5.0 23.1 Net cash used in investing activities 13.9 44.8 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the issue of share capital 3.3 5.7 Consideration paid for own shares 11.3 5.5 Additional borrowings 15 100.0 100.0 Repayment of borrowings 15 101.0 0.9 Dividends paid 18 190.0 155.2 Net cash used in financing activities 199.0 55.9 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 130.5 2,084.3 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 10 7,413.1 5,325.1 Exchange losses gains on cash and cash equivalents 2.0 3.7 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 10 7,280.6 7,413.1 The notes and information on pages 130 to 179 form part of these financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom, and registered in England and Wales.
Statement of Compliance The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable when reporting under IFRS.
As at 31 December 2017, the following amended standards, which the Group has adopted as of 1 January 2017, have not had any material impact on the Groups reported results: Annual Improvements 2014 2016 Cycle: Amendments to IFRS 12 IAS 12 Amendment Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses IAS 7 Amendment Disclosure Initiative As at 31 December 2017, the following new and amended standards, which are relevant to the Group but have not been applied in the financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 28 Amendment Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS 40 Amendment Transfers of Investment Property IFRS 2 Amendment Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IFRS 4 Amendment Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and associated amendments, including to various other standards IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers including subsequent IFRS 15 clarification and associated amendments to various other standards IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Annual Improvements 2014-2016 Cycle Annual Improvements 2015-2017 Cycle The Group is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of the above standards, amendments and clarifications will have on the Groups results reported within the financial statements.
Further detail regarding the standards that are expected to have the most significant impact on the financial statements is given below: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 incorporates new classification and measurements requirements for financial assets and liabilities, the introduction of an expected credit loss impairment model, new hedge accounting requirements and enhanced disclosures in the financial statements.
The Group will adopt IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018.
As a result, certain financial assets will be reclassified in the statement of financial position and the provisioning methodology for financial assets will change from an incurred loss to an expected loss basis.
The Group does not use hedge accounting and so this element of the new standard is not applicable.
Further detail on each of the changes relevant to the Group is provided below.
Financial Asset Reclassifications The financial asset reclassifications will be as follows: Current classification IFRS 9 classification Renewal income assets Available for sale Fair value through profit and loss Other receivables Loans and receivables Amortised cost Cash & cash equivalents Policyholder assets Fair value through profit and loss Fair value through profit and loss Shareholder assets Loan and receivables Amortised cost Renewal income assets, which represent the present value of future cash flows associated with books of business acquired by the Group, are classified as fair value through profit and loss under IFRS 9.
This is because the contractual cash flows associated with the assets are fees rather than payments of principal and interest.
When contractual cash flows are not solely payments of principal and interest, IFRS 9 requires the assets to be classified as fair value through profit and loss.
The accounting policies for each of the reclassified financial assets will be amended to reflect IFRS 9 requirements, however there will be no material change to the underlying accounting treatment.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 130 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Management are assessing the quantum of the adjustments that will Expected Loss Impairment Model be required upon transition to IFRS 16, which is mandatory for Moving from an incurred loss to an expected loss impairment model financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2019, subject to will impact the impairment provision held against the business loans EU endorsement.
to Partners, which are recognised within other receivables on the statement of financial position.
The expected loss model for these IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts loans has been built based on the levels of loss experienced in the IFRS 17 incorporates revised principles for the recognition, portfolio, with due consideration given to forward looking measurement, presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts.
The output of the model is a provision which is materially consistent with the provision recognised at 31 December The Group closed to new insurance business, as defined under 2017 under IAS 39, the current financial instruments standard.
At 31 December 2017, the Group has 85.6 million of non-unit linked insurance contract liabilities, which Thus, IFRS 9 will have no material impact on the statement of are substantially reinsured, and 459.0 million of unit linked financial position or the statement of comprehensive income.
As a result, the Groups net exposure on this business is not material.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The new standard establishes a principle based five-step model to be The vast majority of the business written by the Life companies within applied to revenue from all contracts with customers, except for the Group is defined as investment, rather than insurance, business insurance contracts, financial instruments and lease contracts.
Investment business is outside the scope Group will adopt IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018. of IFRS 17: refer to Note 2 for further information on the classification of contracts between insurance and investment business.
Management have carried out a detailed assessment of revenue recognised by the Group in the context of the IFRS 15 five-step Management are currently assessing the impacts of adopting the model, covering advice charges post-RDR, third party fee and new standard, which is mandatory for financial years commencing commission income, wealth management fees, investment on or after 1 January 2021, subject to EU endorsement.
management fees, fund tax deductions and discretionary The Group financial statements also comply with the revised management fees refer to Note 4.
The assessment has considered the following: Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 as amended in December 2006, Identification of the customer in each contract: The services promised in a contract with customers, and whether to the extent that it is consistent with IFRS standards.
those services are distinct such that they can be considered Basis of Preparation separate performance obligations: The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these The price expected to be received from customers in return for the financial statements.
services promised in the contract: How the price should be recognised with reference to the The financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, rounded performance obligations in the contract, including the elements of to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds.
They are prepared on a revenue that should be deferred: and historical cost basis, except for assets classified as investment Directly attributable acquisition costs which are deferred.
property, available-for-sale financial assets and assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss.
Management have concluded that the way the Groups revenue is recognised under IAS 18, the current revenue accounting standard, The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs satisfies the requirements of IFRS 15 with no changes required upon requires management to make judgements, estimates and adoption of the new standard.
assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The IFRS 16 Leases estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016.
It will result in almost all leases experience and various other factors that are believed to be being recognised on the statement of financial position, as the reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed for basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and lessees.
Under the new standard, an asset the right to use the leased liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual item and a financial liability to pay rentals are recognised.
The only results may differ from these estimates.
exceptions are for short-term or low-value leases.
The accounting for The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an lessors will not significantly change.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in The standard will affect the accounting for the Groups operating the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only leases.
As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable that year, or in the year of the revision and future years, if the revision operating lease commitments of 148.7 million, see Note 15.
On affects both current and future years.
adoption of the standard, the right-of-use asset and liability for future Judgements made by management in the application of IFRSs that payments are expected to be material to the statement of financial position, and there is expected to be a negative impact on the have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates statement of comprehensive income initially which will reverse over with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are time.
The negative impact arises as the lease liability is accounted for discussed in Note2.
using the effective interest method, which means that the interest The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the expense on the lease liability reduces year on year, whereas under the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under current lease accounting standard the operating lease rentals are IFRS and the accounting policies set out below have been applied constant throughout the lease term.
consistently to all years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued Investment contract management fees are generally recognised as 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, including dealing Summary of Significant Accounting Policies margins from unit trusts, which exceed the level of recurring fees and a Basis of Consolidation relate to the future provision of services, are deferred, and amortised The consolidated financial information incorporates the assets, over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
liabilities and the results of the Company and of its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group controls.
Control c Insurance and Reinsurance Premiums exists if the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns Unit linked insurance contract premiums are recognised as revenue from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those when the liabilities arising from them are recognised.
All other returns through its power over the entity including unit trusts in premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
which the Group holds more than 30% of the units.
Associates are all d Insurance Claims and Reinsurance Recoveries entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control and are accounted for at fair value through the profit or loss.
The Insurance contract death claims are accounted for on notification of death.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when admitted.
All Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations and expenses all acquisition costs as they other claims and surrenders are accounted for when payment is due.
Reinsurance recoveries, in respect of insurance claims, are are incurred.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of e Investment Return subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure Investment return comprises investment income and investment consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
Investment income includes dividends, interest and Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is rental income from investment properties under operating leases.
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes Dividends are accrued on an ex-dividend basis, and rental income is to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in the straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest, which is consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
generated on assets classified as fair value through profit or loss, is accounted for using the effective interest method.
The treatment of transactions with non-controlling interests depends on whether, as a result of the transaction, the Group alters control of f Expenses the subsidiary.
Changes in the Parents ownership interest in a i Payments to Partners subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as Payments to Partners comprises initial commission and initial advice equity transactions: any difference between the amount by which the fees IAF paid for initial advice, at policy outset and within an initial non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the period for regular contribution, renewal commission and renewal advice consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and fees payable on regular contributions and fund fee commission or attributed to the owners of the Parent entity.
Where the Group loses ongoing advice fee OAF based on funds under management.
Initial control of the subsidiary, at the date when control is lost the amount and renewal commission and advice fees are recognised in line with the of any non-controlling interest in that former subsidiary is associated premium income, but initial commission on insurance and derecognised and any investment retained in the former subsidiary is investment contracts may be deferred as set out in accounting policy remeasured to its fair value: the gain or loss that is recognised in k. Fund fee commission and ongoing advice fee are recognised on an profit or loss on the partial disposal of the subsidiary includes the accruals basis.
gain or loss on the remeasurement of the retained interest.
ii Operating Lease Payments Intragroup balances, and any income and expenses or unrealised Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated ownership is retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the The St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation is not consolidated term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the within the financial information.
This is because the Company does not control the Charitable Foundation in accordance with IFRS 10. statement of comprehensive income as an integral part of the total lease expense and are spread over the life of the lease.
b Fee and Commission Income g Income Taxes Fee and commission income comprises: i Advice charges paid by clients who wish to receive advice with Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax payable by the Group in respect of policyholders and their investment in a St. Jamess Place or third party retail shareholders.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of investment product: comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items ii Commission, due in respect of products sold on behalf of third recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
parties: and iii Fees charged on investment contracts including fees charged to Tax liabilities are recognised when it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a taxing authority and are clients to match the policyholder tax element of the insurance measured using a best estimate approach.
Advice charges and commission are recognised in full on acceptance i Current Tax and inception of the associated policy by the relevant product Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the provider.
Where the product provider retains the right to clawback of year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the commission on an indemnity basis, turnover on sale of these reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of products is recognised net of a provision for the estimated clawback.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 132 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information j Goodwill ii Deferred Tax Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Deferred tax is provided using the liability method, providing for fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired entity is taxation purposes.
The following differences are not provided for: the greater than the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is reviewed at least The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner annually for impairment or when circumstances or events indicate of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and there may be uncertainty over this value.
If an impairment is liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the identified, the carrying value of the goodwill is written down reporting date.
immediately through the statement of comprehensive income and is not subsequently reversed.
At the date of disposal of a subsidiary, the A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable carrying value of attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can the profit or loss on disposal except where it has been written off be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no directly to reserves in the past.
longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
k Deferred Acquisition Costs Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally For insurance contracts, acquisition costs comprise direct costs enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax such as initial commission and the indirect costs of obtaining and liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to processing new business.
Acquisition costs which are incurred income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the during a financial year, net of any impairment losses, are deferred and taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention then amortised to expenses in the statement of comprehensive to settle the balances on a net basis.
income on a straight-line basis over the period during which the costs iii Policyholder and Shareholder Tax are expected to be recoverable and in accordance with the incidence The total income tax charge is a separate adjustment within the of future related margins.
statement of comprehensive income based on the movement in For investment contracts, only directly attributable acquisition costs, current and deferred income taxes in respect of income, gains and which vary with and are related to securing new contracts and expenses.
The total charge reflects tax incurred on behalf of renewing existing contracts, are deferred, and only to the extent that policyholders as well as shareholders, and so it is useful to be able to they are recoverable out of future revenue.
These deferred acquisition identify these separately.
costs, which represent the contractual right to benefit from providing Shareholder tax is estimated by making an assessment of the investment management services, net of any impairment losses, are effective rate of tax that is applicable to the shareholders on the amortised to expenses in the statement of comprehensive income on profits attributable to shareholders.
This is calculated by applying the a straight-line basis over the expected lifetime of the Groups appropriate effective corporate tax rates to the shareholder profits.
All other costs are recognised as expenses The remainder of the tax charge represents tax on policyholders when incurred.
This calculation method is consistent with the The period over which costs are expected to be recoverable are as legislation relating to the calculation of tax on shareholder profits.
follows: h Dividends Paid Insurance contracts: 6 years Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised Investment contracts: 12 to 14 years in the period in which the dividends are declared, that is when they l Intangible Assets are appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the i Purchased Value of In-Force Business Company.
The final dividend for the financial year is disclosed but unpaid and awaiting approval by the Companys shareholders at the The purchased value of in-force business in respect of insurance business represents the present value of profits that are expected to Annual General Meeting.
emerge from insurance business acquired on business i Investment Contract Deposits and Withdrawals combinations.
It is calculated at the time of acquisition using best Investment contract payments in and out are not included in the estimate actuarial assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency statement of comprehensive income but are reported as deposits to and expenses, net of any impairment losses, and it is amortised on a or deductions from investment contract benefits in the statement of straight-line basis as profits emerge over the anticipated lives of the financial position.
The movement in investment contract benefits related contracts in the portfolio.
An intangible asset is also within the statement of comprehensive income principally represents recognised in respect of acquired investment management contracts the investment return credited to policyholders.
representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under those contracts.
The purchased value of in-force business is expressed as Explicit advice charges are payable to St. Jamess Place Wealth a gross figure in the statement of financial position with the Management plc by most clients who wish to receive advice with associated tax included within deferred tax liabilities.
It is assessed their investment in a St. Jamess Place retail investment product.
for impairment at each reporting date and any movement is charged St. Jamess Place facilitates the payment of these charges for the to the statement of comprehensive income.
client, by arranging withdrawals from the clients policy, which are then recognised as income to St. Jamess Place Wealth Management The estimated useful economic life of acquired in-force business is plc.
A proportion of the charge is then paid to the St. Jamess Place 20 years.
Adviser Partner who provides the advice see f i Expenses.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued The Group recognises purchases and sales of investments on trade 1.
The costs associated with investment transactions are included ii Computer Software within expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
The carrying value is reviewed p Derivative Financial Instruments for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate The Group uses derivative financial instruments within some unit linked that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
funds, with each contract initially and subsequently recognised at fair value, based on observable market prices.
All changes in value are Computer software is recognised as an intangible asset during recognised within investment income in the statement of development with amortisation commencing when the software is comprehensive income.
Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to expenses on a straight-line basis over four q Other Receivables years, being the estimated useful life of the intangible asset.
Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised costs less impairment losses, except m Property and Equipment for renewal income assets which are classified as available for sale Items of property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated and held at fair value.
The value of any impairment recognised is the depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset difference between the assets carrying amount and the present and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original condition for its intended use.
Land is shown at fair value, based on effective interest rate.
See accounting policy ac for information valuations by external independent valuers.
The carrying value is relating to the treatment of impaired amounts.
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable and any Other receivables include prepayments, which are recognised where assets that may have suffered impairment are reviewed for possible services are paid for in advance of being received.
The prepayment reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
reduces, and an expense is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, as the service is received.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to expenses on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of Commission and advice fees in respect of some insurance and the property and equipment, which are as follows: investment business may be paid to Partners in advance on renewal Fixtures, fittings and office equipment: 5 to 10 years premiums and accelerated by up to five years.
The unearned element Computer equipment: 3 years of this accelerated remuneration is recognised as advanced payments to Partners within other receivables.
Should the n Investment Property contributions reduce or stop within the initial period, any unearned Investment properties, which are all held within the unit linked funds, amount is recovered.
are properties which are held to earn rental income and or for capital appreciation.
They are stated at fair value.
r Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call An external, independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments, and bank professional qualification and recent experience in the location and overdrafts to the extent that they are an integral part of the Groups category of property being valued, values the portfolio every month.
The fair values are based on open market values, being the estimated Cash and cash equivalents held within unit linked and unit trust funds amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of are classified at fair value through the profit and loss.
All other cash valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms and cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
s Insurance Contract Liabilities Insurance contract liability provisions are determined following an Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in annual actuarial investigation of the long-term fund in accordance the statement of comprehensive income within investment income.
The provisions are calculated on the Rental return from investment property is accounted for as described in accounting policy e. basis of current information and using the gross premium valuation method.
The Groups accounting policies for insurance contracts o Investments meet the minimum specified requirements for liability adequacy The Groups investments are initially and subsequently recognised at testing under IFRS 4, as they consider current estimates of all fair value through profit or loss, with all gains and losses recognised contractual cash flows, and of related cash flow such as claims within investment income in the statement of comprehensive handling costs.
The fair values of quoted financial investments, which Insurance contract liabilities can never be definitive as to their timing represent the vast majority of the Groups investments, are based on nor the amount of claims and are therefore subject to subsequent the value within the bid-ask spread that is most representative of fair reassessment on a regular basis.
If the market for a financial investment is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as recent t Investment Contract Benefits arms length transactions, reference to similar listed investments, All of the Groups investment contracts are unit linked.
Unit linked discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
liabilities are measured at fair value by reference to the value of the underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds, The decision by the Group to designate its investments at fair value through the profit and loss reflects the fact that the investment determined on a bid value, at the reporting date.
An allowance for deductions due to or from the Company in respect of policyholder portfolio is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value tax on capital gains and losses in the life assurance funds is also basis.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 134 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information reflected in the measurement of unit linked liabilities.
Investment The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the contract benefits are recognised when units are first allocated to the fair value of the awards, measured using standard option pricing policyholder: they are fide-recognised when units allocated to the models as the fair value of the services provided by employees, policyholder have been cancelled.
Partners and Advisers cannot be reliably measured.
For equitysettled plans, the fair value is determined at grant date and not The decision by the Group to designate its unit linked liabilities as fair subsequently remeasured.
For cash-settled plans, the fair value is value through the profit and loss statement reflects the fact that the remeasured at each reporting date and the date of settlement, with matching investment portfolio, that underpins the unit-linked liabilities, is any changes in fair value recognised in the statement of managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
comprehensive income for the period.
u Deferred Income At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of The initial margin on financial instruments including dealing margins awards that are expected to vest and it recognises the impact of the from unit trusts is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis revision of original estimates, if any, in the statement of comprehensive over the expected lifetime of the financial instrument, which is income, such that the amount recognised for employee, Partner and between 6 to 14 years.
Adviser services are based on the number of awards that actually vest.
The charge to the statement of comprehensive income is not revised for v Net Asset Value Attributable to Unit Holders any changes in market vesting conditions.
The Group consolidates unit trusts in which it holds more than 30% of the units and exercises control.
The third party interests in these unit aa Share Capital trusts are measured at fair value, since the underlying investment Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where any Group entity portfolios are managed on a fair value basis, and they are presented purchases the Companys equity share capital shares held in trust, in the statement of financial position as net asset value attributable to the consideration paid is deducted from equity attributable to unit holders.
Income attributable to the third party interests is shareholders, as disclosed in the Shares in Trust reserve.
Where such accounted for within investment income, offset by a corresponding shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any change in investment contract benefits.
consideration received is included in equity attributable to shareholders, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction w Provisions costs and the related income tax effects.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events such that it is ab Product Classification probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to The Groups products are classified for accounting purposes as either settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the insurance contracts or investment contracts.
Provisions are measured as the discounted expected future cash flows taking account of the risks and i Insurance Contracts uncertainties associated with the specific liability where appropriate.
Insurance contracts are contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
The Groups product range includes a variety of term assurance x Borrowings and whole of life protection contracts involving significant insurance Borrowings are measured initially at fair value, net of directly risk transfer.
attributable transaction costs, and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
The difference between the proceeds and the redemption value ii Investment Contracts is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the Contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are treated as borrowing period on an effective interest rate basis.
The majority of the business written by the recognised on drawdown and derecognised on repayment.
Group is unit linked investment business and is classified as investment contracts.
y Other Payables Other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently ac Impairment measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
i Non-Financial Assets Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment z Employee Benefits when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty i Pension Obligations over this value.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by The Group operates a defined contribution personal pension plan for which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Contributions to this plan are recognised as an The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less expense in the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
The costs to sell and value in use.
Refer to accounting policy j for the Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further Groups impairment policy for goodwill.
contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current ii Financial Assets and prior periods.
Formal reviews to assess the recoverability of financial assets are carried out at each reporting date.
The recoverability of such assets ii Share-Based Payments is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if there is objective The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans for evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events that employees, Partners and Advisers.
The fair value of share-based have an impact on the expected future cash flows associated with payment awards granted is recognised as an expense spread over the financial asset.
When a loss is incurred the impairment loss the vesting period of the instrument which accords with the period recognised in the statement of comprehensive income is calculated for which related services are provided, with a corresponding as the carrying value of the asset less the projected future cash flows increase in equity in the case of equity-settled plans and the arising from the asset discounted at the original effective interest recognition of a liability for cash-settled plans.
The impaired assets are presented net of the impairment provision in the statement of financial position.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED In relation to financial assets classified as loans and receivables, impairment losses are reversed - through the statement of comprehensive income - if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Such losses are reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had been recognised.
ad Foreign Currency Translation The Groups presentation and the Companys functional currency is pounds Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into Sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and the gain or losses on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are held at historical cost are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the date of transaction: those held at fair value are translated using exchange rates ruling at the date on which the fair value was determined.
ae Segment Reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Board.
af Current and Non-Current Disclosure Assets which are expected to be recovered or settled no more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within the notes to the financial statements.
Those expected to be recovered or settled more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as non-current.
Liabilities which are expected or due to be settled no more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within the notes to the financial statements.
Those liabilities which are expected or due to be settled more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as non-current.
ag Alternative Performance Measures Within the financial statements, a number of alternative performance measures APMs are disclosed.
An APM is a measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows which is not defined by the relevant financial reporting framework, which for the Group is International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
APMs are used to provide greater insight to the performance of the Group and the way it is managed by the Directors.
The Glossary of Alternative Performance Measures on page 204 defines each APM, explains why it is used and, where applicable, how the measure can be reconciled to the IFRS financial statements.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 136 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Greater detail on the assumptions applied is shown in Note 13.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES Whilst the measurement of insurance contract liabilities is considered Judgements to be a critical accounting estimate for the Group, the vast majority of The primary areas in which the Group has applied judgement are as non-unit linked insurance business written is reinsured.
As a result, follows: the impact of a change in estimate in determining the value of insurance contract liabilities would be mitigated to a significant Classification of Contracts Between Insurance and degree by the impact of the change in estimate in determining the Investment Business value of reinsurance assets.
Contracts with a significant degree of insurance risk are treated as insurance.
All other contracts are treated as investment contracts.
It Determining the Fair Value of Investment Contract Benefits is this classification that management considers to be a critical In accordance with IFRS 13, the Group categorises unit-linked judgement: however, due to the carrying value of the insurance insurance contracts as financial liabilities, carried on the statement of contract liabilities within the statement of financial position, financial position at fair value.
The fair value of unit linked liabilities is management does not consider insurance business to be significant assessed by reference to the value of the underlying net asset value to the Group.
of the Groups unitised investment funds, determined on a bid value, at the reporting date.
As the underlying net asset value is determined Subsidiaries using inputs other than quoted prices but which are observable, either Subsidiaries are those entities which the Group controls.
Control directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices, exists if the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns the liability is categorised as a level 2 financial instrument.
Further from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those details of these valuations are described in Note 16. returns through its power over the entity including unit trusts in which the Group holds more than 30% of the units.
Determining the Fair Value of Investment Property In accordance with IAS 40, the Group initially recognises investment Deciding the Amount of Management Expenses that are properties at cost, and subsequently remeasures its portfolio to fair Treated as Acquisition Expenses value in the statement of financial position.
Fair value is determined Certain management expenses vary with the level of new business and monthly by professional external valuers.
It is based on anticipated have been treated as acquisition costs.
Each line of costs has been market values for the properties in accordance with the guidance reviewed and its variability to new business volumes estimated on the issued by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, being the basis of the level of costs that would be incurred if new business ceased.
estimated amount that would be received from a sale of the assets in an orderly transaction between market participants.
Estimates Critical accounting estimates are those which give rise to a significant The valuation of investment property is inherently subjective as it risk of material adjustment to the balances recognised in the financial requires among other factors, assumptions to be made regarding the statements within the next twelve months.
The Groups critical ability of existing tenants to meet their rental obligations over the accounting estimates are: entire life of their leases, the estimation of the expected rental income Determining the value of insurance contract liabilities: into the future, an assessment of a propertys ability to remain as an Determining the fair value of investment contract benefits: attractive technical configuration to existing and prospective tenants Determining the fair value of investment property: and in a changing market and a judgement to be reached on the Determining the value of deferred tax assets.
attractiveness of a building, its location and the surrounding environment.
As such, investment properties are classified as level 3 Estimates are also applied in determining the amount of deferred tax in the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy because they are valued using asset recognised on unrelieved expenses and the value of other techniques which are not based on observable inputs.
of the valuation of investment properties are described in Note 16.
Measurement of Insurance Contract Liabilities Determining the Value of Deferred Tax Assets The assumptions used in the calculation of insurance contract In line with IAS 12, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets for liabilities that have an effect on the statement of comprehensive future tax benefits that will accrue.
The asset value has taken into income of the Group are: consideration the likelihood of appropriate future income or gains The lapse assumption, which is set prudently based on an against which the tax asset can be utilised.
In particular, future investigation of experience during the year: investment income from the existing assets and new business The level of expenses, which is based on actual expenses in 2017 will be sufficient to utilise the unrelieved expenses, and capital gains and expected rates in 2018 and the long term: crystallising in the unit linked funds will utilise the capital losses.
Tax The mortality and morbidity rates, which are based on the results assets in relation to deferred income will be utilised as the underlying of an investigation of experience during the year: and income is recognised.
The assumed rate of investment return, which is based on current gilt yields.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 3.
SEGMENT REPORTING IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified, on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Board, in order to allocate resources to each segment and assess its performance.
The Groups only reportable segment under IFRS 8 is a wealth management business which is a  business providing support to our clients through the provision of financial advice and assistance through our Partner network, and financial solutions including but not limited to wealth management products manufactured in the Group, such as insurance bonds, pensions, unit trust and ISA investments, and a DFM service.
Separate geographical segmental information is not presented since the Group does not segment its business geographically.
Most of its customers are based in the United Kingdom, as is management of the assets.
In particular, the operation based in south-east Asia is not yet sufficiently material for separate consideration.
Segment Revenue Revenue received from fee and commission income is set out in Note 4 which sets out the different types of revenue received from our wealth management business.
Segment Profit Two separate measures of profit are monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
These are the post-tax underlying cash result and pre-tax European Embedded Value EEV.
Underlying Cash Result The measure of cash profit monitored on a monthly basis by the Board is the post-tax underlying cash result.
This reflects emergence of cash available for paying a dividend during the year.
Underlying cash is based on the cash flows within the IFRS results, but with no allowance for intangibles, principally DAC, DIR, PVIF, goodwill and deferred tax, or short-term costs associated with the back-office infrastructure project.
As the cost associated with share options is reflected in changes in shareholder equity, they are also not included in the underlying cash result.
More detail is provided on pages 32 and 37 of the Financial Review.
The cash result should not be confused with the IFRS consolidated statement of cash flows which is prepared in accordance with IAS 7.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Underlying cash result after tax 281.2 199.5 Non-cash-settled share-based payments 30.5 23.9 Deferred tax impacts 15.0 21.1 Back-office infrastructure 21.7 16.7 Impact in the year of DAC DIR PVIF 48.1 16.8 Other 20.1 9.3 IFRS profit after tax 145.8 111.7 Shareholder tax 40.3 28.9 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 186.1 140.6 Tax attributable to policyholder returns 156.0 345.7 IFRS profit before tax 342.1 486.3 St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 138 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information EEV Operating Profit EEV operating profit is monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
The components of the EEV operating profit are included in more detail in the Financial Review section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million EEV operating profit before tax 918.5 673.6 Investment return variance 340.8 537.2 Economic assumption changes 29.8 12.4 EEV profit before tax 1,289.1 1,198.4 Adjustments to IFRS basis Deduct: amortisation of purchased value of in-force 3.2 3.2 Movement of balance sheet life value of in-force net of tax 586.2 642.7 Movement of balance sheet unit trust and DFM value of in-force net of tax 325.4 257.6 Tax of movement in value of in-force 188.2 154.3 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 186.1 140.6 Tax attributable to policyholder returns 156.0 345.7 IFRS profit before tax 342.1 486.3 The movement in life, unit trust and DFM value of in-force is the difference between the opening and closing discounted value of the profits that will emerge from the in-force book over time, after adjusting for DAC and DIR impacts which are already included under IFRS.
Segment Assets Funds Under Management FUM FUM, as reported in Section 1 of the Financial Review on page 27 is the measure of Segment Assets which is monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million 1 Investment 28,310.0 25,880.0 1 Pension 36,150.0 28,250.0 UT ISA and DFM 26,290.0 21,180.0 Total FUM 90,750.0 75,310.0 Exclude client and third party holdings in non-consolidated unit trusts and DFM 4,882.5 4,153.9 Other 296.7 283.7 Gross assets held to cover unit liabilities 86,164.2 71,439.8 IFRS intangible assets see page 35 adjustment 2 including goodwill, DAC, PVIF, reinsurance and deferred tax 811.3 917.7 Shareholder gross assets see page 35 3,030.5 2,664.6 Total assets 90,006.0 75,022.1 1 Closing funds under management for Investment and Pension business at 31 December 2016 include equal and opposite adjustments of 380.0 million related to the reclassification of investment returns arising in the fourth quarter of 2016.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 4.
FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Advice charges post-RDR 656.5 510.7 Third party fee and commission income 114.3 103.5 Wealth management fees 638.3 590.7 Investment management fees 62.4 52.6 Fund tax deductions 156.2 352.2 Discretionary fund management fees 9.4 5.3 Fee and commission income before DIR amortisation 1,637.1 1,615.0 Amortisation of DIR 142.7 88.9 Total fee and commission income 1,779.8 1,703.9 5.
EXPENSES The following items are included within the expenses disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Payments to Partners 709.0 599.7 Payments under operating leases 17.2 11.8 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 For other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries excluding Unit Trusts 0.6 0.6 Audit of the Companys Unit Trusts 0.3 0.3 Audit-related assurance services 0.8 0.5 Other non-audit services 0.1 Total fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates 1.8 1.6 Employee costs Wages and salaries 138.8 113.7 Social security costs 16.5 12.8 Other pension costs in relation to defined contribution schemes 9.5 8.0 Cost of employee share awards and options 19.1 16.3 Total employee costs 183.9 150.8 Average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year 2,014 1,735 The above information includes Directors remuneration.
The aggregate emoluments of the highest paid Director were 0.9 million 2016: 0.9 million, cash supplement in lieu of their defined contribution pension scheme was 0.1 million 2016: 0.1 million, they exercised zero share options during 2016 2016: 175,807 and 33,924 shares were released to them in respect of the deferred bonus scheme 2016: 24,591.
Full details of the Directors remuneration, share options, pension entitlements and interests in shares are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 100 to 110.
The aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year was 2.6 million 2016: 5.0 million.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 140 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 6.
INVESTMENT RETURN AND MOVEMENT IN INVESTMENT CONTRACT BENEFITS The majority of the business written by the Group is unit linked investment business, and so investment contract benefits are measured by reference to the underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds.
As a result, investment return on the unitised investment funds and the movement in investment contract benefits are linked.
Investment Return Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Investment return on net assets held to cover unit liabilities: Rental income 82.3 72.4 Gain loss on revaluation of investment properties 79.2 23.4 Net investment return on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss 5,545.1 7,456.8 5,706.6 7,505.8 Attributable to unit linked insurance contract liabilities 43.5 58.5 Attributable to unit linked investment contract benefits 5,663.1 7,447.3 5,706.6 7,505.8 Income attributable to third party holdings in unit trusts 1,547.8 2,094.5 7,254.4 9,600.3 Investment return on shareholder assets: 1 Net investment return on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss 21.3 29.0 1 Net investment return on financial instruments classified as available for sale 1.8 6.1 Interest income on financial instruments held at amortised cost 8.6 6.9 28.1 29.8 Total investment return 7,282.5 9,630.1 1 The net investment return on renewal income assets has been represented in the 2016 comparative to show the 6.1 million net loss separately in the net investment return on financial instruments classified as available for sale line.
Included in the net investment return on financial instruments classified as fair value through profit and loss within investment return on net assets held to cover unit liabilities is dividend income of 825.6 million 2016: 756.2 million.
Movement in Investment Contract Benefits 2017 2016 Million Million Balance at 1 January 53,307.1 43,159.8 Deposits 9,711.4 7,346.5 Withdrawals 3,924.5 3,536.0 Movement in unit-linked investment contract benefits 5,663.1 7,447.3 Less: fees and other adjustments for reassessment of unit liability 742.8 1,110.5 Balance at 31 December 64,014.3 53,307.1 Current 3,840.9 3,305.0 Non-current 60,173.4 50,002.1 64,014.3 53,307.1 Movement in unit liabilities Unit-linked investment contract benefits 5,663.1 7,447.3 Third party unit trust holdings 1,547.8 2,094.5 Movement in investment contract benefits in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 7,210.9 9,541.8 See accounting policy af for further information on the current and non-current disclosure.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 7.
INCOME AND DEFERRED TAXES Tax for the Year Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Current tax UK corporation tax Current year charge 245.7 171.8 Adjustment in respect of prior year 3.1 0.6 Overseas taxes Current year charge 6.8 4.2 Adjustment in respect of prior year 0.1 0.1 249.5 175.3 Deferred tax Unrealised capital losses gains in unit linked funds 55.6 196.3 Unrelieved expenses Additional expenses recognised in the year 12.7 12.5 Utilisation in the year 17.2 18.7 Capital losses Additional losses recognised in the year 2.2 Utilisation in the year 12.1 12.6 Adjustment in respect of prior year 0.9 0.1 DAC, DIR and PVIF 12.7 11.6 Other items 3.5 4.4 Change in tax rate 1.3 Overseas taxes on losses 0.1 0.3 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 1.2 0.7 53.2 199.3 Total tax charge for the year 196.3 374.6 Attributable to: policyholders 156.0 345.7 shareholders 40.3 28.9 196.3 374.6 The prior year adjustments in current tax above represents a credit of 3.8 million in respect of policyholder tax 2016: 1.4 million credit and a charge of 0.8 million in respect of shareholder tax 2016: 0.7 million charge.
Included within the deferred tax on other items is a charge of 2.0 million 2016: 0.2 million charge relating to share-based payments.
Details of share-based payments are disclosed in Note 19 Share-based Payments.
In arriving at the profit before tax attributable to shareholders return, it is necessary to estimate the analysis of the total tax charge between that payable in respect of policyholders and that payable by shareholders.
Shareholder tax is estimated by making an assessment of the effective rate of tax that is applicable to the shareholders on the profits attributable to shareholders.
This is calculated by applying the appropriate effective corporate tax rates to the shareholder profits.
The remainder of the tax charge represents tax on policyholders investment returns.
This calculation method is consistent with the legislation relating to the calculation of tax on shareholder profits.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 142 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Tax Paid in the Year Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Current tax charge for the year 249.5 175.3 Payments to be made in future years in respect of current year 125.3 72.6 Payments made in current year in respect of prior years 71.3 30.6 Other 1.1 0.1 Tax paid 196.6 133.4 Tax paid can be analysed as: Taxes paid in UK 188.9 129.0 Taxes paid in overseas jurisdictions 2.7 1.9 Withholding taxes suffered on investment income received 5.0 2.5 Tax paid 196.6 133.4 Movement in Net Deferred Tax Balance 2017 2016 Million Million Deferred tax asset 199.9 225.9 Deferred tax liability 614.8 434.6 Net deferred tax balance at 1 January 414.9 208.7 Credit charge through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 53.2 199.3 Arising on acquisitions during the year 2.4 6.9 Deferred tax asset 182.7 199.9 Deferred tax liability 546.8 614.8 Balance at 31 December 364.1 414.9 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 143 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 7.
INCOME AND DEFERRED TAXES CONTINUED Reconciliation of Tax Charge to Expected Tax Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Profit before tax 342.1 486.3 1 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 156.0 345.7 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders return 186.1 140.6 Shareholder tax charge at corporate tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20% 35.8 19.3% 28.1 20% Adjustments: Tax regime differences Lower rates of corporation tax in overseas subsidiaries 0.3 0.2% 0.9 0.6% Expected shareholder tax 35.5 19.1% 27.2 19.3% Other Non-taxable income 1.2 1.0 Recognition and usage of capital losses arising in the Group 2.2 Adjustment in respect of prior year Current tax 0.8 0.7 Deferred tax 0.8 0.8 Differences in accounting and tax bases in relation to employee share schemes 0.7 0.7 Disallowable expenses 2.0 1.2 Tax losses not recognised or past losses now recognised 3.1 2.0 Other 0.2 4.8 2.6% 0.4 0.3% Change in tax rate 1.3 Shareholder tax charge 40.3 21.7% 28.9 20.6% Policyholder tax charge 156.0 345.7 Total tax charge for the year 196.3 374.6 1 Tax attributable to policyholder returns is equal to the policyholder tax charge, and reflects fund tax deductions offset by policyholder tax effects on intangibles.
Tax calculated on profit before tax at 19.25% 2016: 20% would amount to 65.9 million 2016: 97.3 million.
The difference of 130.4 million 2016: 277.3 million between this number and the total tax of 196.3 million 2016: 374.6 million is made up of the reconciling items above which total 4.4 million 2016: 0.8 million and the effect of the apportionment methodology on tax applicable to policyholder returns of 126.0 million 2016: 276.5 million.
Deferred Tax Assets Expected 31 December 31 December utilisation 2017 2016 Years Million Million Unrelieved expenses life insurance business 6 46.4 50.9 Deferred income DIR 13 37.9 39.7 Capital losses available for future relief 8 86.0 99.0 Employee share scheme costs 3 7.5 5.5 Future capital allowances 6 3.7 4.1 Other 1.2 0.7 Total deferred tax assets 182.7 199.9 St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 144 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Appropriate investment income, gains or profits are expected to arise against which the tax assets can be utilised.
Whilst the actual rates of utilisation will depend on business growth and external factors, particularly investment market conditions, they have been tested for sensitivity to experience and are resilient to a range of reasonably foreseeable scenarios.
At the reporting date there were unrecognised deferred tax assets of 5.9 million 2016: 4.1 million in respect of losses in companies where appropriate profits are not considered probable in the forecast period.
These losses primarily relate to our Asia based businesses and can be carried forward indefinitely.
Deferred Tax Liabilities Expected 31 December 31 December utilisation 2017 2016 Years Million Million Unrealised capital gains on life insurance BLAGAB assets backing unit liabilities 6 445.5 501.1 Deferred acquisition costs DAC 13 84.0 97.8 Purchased value of in-force business PVIF 10 4.8 5.4 Renewal income assets 20 10.6 8.6 Other 1.9 1.9 Total deferred tax liabilities 546.8 614.8 Future Tax Changes Future tax rate changes, including the reduction in the corporation tax rate to 17% effective from 1 April 2020 which was enacted in the Finance Act 2016, were incorporated into the deferred tax balances in 2016.
The change announced by the Chancellor in the Autumn 2017 Budget regarding the corporate indexation allowance freeze has not been reflected in the numbers in this Note on the basis that this is yet to be substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
This is likely to increase relevant taxable gains in future years.
Other Tax Matters We have considered the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS actions relevant to the St. Jamess Place Group and believe that they will not have a material impact on the financial results of the Group.
We have developed our processes and procedures to enable completion of any required reporting by the relevant deadlines.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 8.
GOODWILL, INTANGIBLE ASSETS, DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS AND DEFERRED INCOME Computer Purchased software & value of other specific in-force software Goodwill business developments DAC DIR Million Million Million Million Million Cost At 1 January 2016 10.1 73.4 13.6 1,611.2 1,205.0 Additions 3.7 2.1 38.6 56.0 Addition due to reassessment of unit liability 267.0 At 31 December 2016 13.8 73.4 15.7 1,649.8 1,528.0 At 1 January 2017 13.8 73.4 15.7 1,649.8 1,528.0 Additions 1.8 0.3 36.9 141.4 At 31 December 2017 15.6 73.4 16.0 1,686.7 1,669.4 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2016 39.8 9.3 866.2 791.5 Charge for the year 3.2 3.4 98.8 88.9 At 31 December 2016 43.0 12.7 965.0 880.4 At 1 January 2017 43.0 12.7 965.0 880.4 Charge for the year 3.2 0.9 98.7 142.7 At 31 December 2017 46.2 13.6 1,063.7 1,023.1 Net book value At 1 January 2016 10.1 33.6 4.3 745.0 413.5 At 31 December 2016 13.8 30.4 3.0 684.8 647.6 At 31 December 2017 15.6 27.2 2.4 623.0 646.3 Current 3.2 0.9 97.7 149.0 Non-current 15.6 24.0 1.5 525.3 497.3 15.6 27.2 2.4 623.0 646.3 Outstanding amortisation period At 31 December 2016 n a 9 years 4 years 14 years 614 years At 31 December 2017 n a 8 years 4 years 14 years 614 years Goodwill The carrying value of goodwill split by acquisition is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million SJP Asia companies 10.1 10.1 Technical Connection Limited 3.7 3.7 Rowan Dartington companies 1.8 Balance at 31 December 15.6 13.8 Goodwill in relation to the Rowan Dartington companies, which were acquired on 8 March 2016, arose during 2017 due to a reassessment of the value of the business acquired within the measurement period, which is defined as a period of up to one year post acquisition.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 146 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
The recoverable amount has been based on value in use calculations using pre-tax cash flows.
Details of the assumptions made in these calculations are provided below: Key assumptions based on experience: Value of new business Projection period: Five years of detailed forecasts extrapolated into perpetuity using a long-term growth rate Long-term growth rate based on economic forecasts: 1.3% Pre-tax discount rate based on a risk-free rate plus a risk margin: 4.5% It is considered that any reasonably possible levels of change in the key assumptions would not result in impairment of the goodwill.
Purchased Value of In-Force Business DAC Computer Software Amortisation is charged to expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
Amortisation profiles are reassessed annually.
DIR Amortisation is credited within fee and commission income in the statement of comprehensive income.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Fixtures and Fittings and Office Computer Equipment Equipment Total Million Million Million Cost At 1 January 2016 33.1 1.3 34.4 Additions 16.5 3.1 19.6 Disposals 9.9 9.9 At 31 December 2016 39.7 4.4 44.1 At 1 January 2017 39.7 4.4 44.1 Additions 7.1 1.5 8.6 Disposals 0.6 0.2 0.8 At 31 December 2017 46.2 5.7 51.9 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2016 25.8 0.6 26.4 Charge for the year 3.5 0.9 4.4 Eliminated on disposal 9.8 9.8 At 31 December 2016 19.5 1.5 21.0 At 1 January 2017 19.5 1.5 21.0 Charge for the year 3.7 1.5 5.2 Eliminated on disposal 0.5 0.2 0.7 At 31 December 2017 22.7 2.8 25.5 Net book value At 1 January 2016 7.3 0.7 8.0 At 31 December 2016 20.2 2.9 23.1 At 31 December 2017 23.5 2.9 26.4 Amortisation period estimated useful life 5 to 10 years 3 years Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 147 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 10.
INVESTMENTS, INVESTMENT PROPERTY AND CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Net Assets Held to Cover Unit Liabilities Included within the statement of financial position are the following assets and liabilities comprising the net assets held to cover unit liabilities.
31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Assets Investment property 1,630.9 1,462.4 Equities 55,086.9 46,598.7 1 Fixed income securities 17,134.6 12,908.0 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 4,486.6 2,997.4 Cash and cash equivalents 7,005.9 7,067.2 Other receivables 475.9 187.2 Derivative financial instruments Currency forwards 143.8 86.5 Interest rate swaps 49.0 40.0 Index options 70.9 17.7 Contracts for differences 9.2 8.2 Equity rate swaps 5.4 26.2 Foreign currency options 19.1 18.7 Total return swaps 41.0 18.7 Other derivatives 5.0 2.9 1 Total derivative financial assets 343.4 218.9 Total assets 86,164.2 71,439.8 Liabilities Other payables 151.5 383.5 Derivative financial instruments Currency forwards 75.1 176.4 Interest rate swaps 38.8 38.3 Index options 24.0 5.9 Contracts for differences 6.8 2.9 Equity rate swaps 4.4 30.2 Foreign currency options 22.9 10.1 Total return swaps 3.1 8.1 Credit default swaps 14.2 10.0 Other derivatives 1.0 Total derivative financial liabilities 190.3 281.9 Total liabilities 341.8 665.4 Net assets held to cover linked liabilities 85,822.4 70,774.4 Investment contract benefits 64,014.3 53,307.1 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 21,349.1 17,032.0 Unit linked insurance contract liabilities 459.0 435.3 Net unit linked liabilities 85,822.4 70,774.4 1 Collateralised mortgage obligations CMOs are mortgage backed securities.
Investment in CMOs was 510.2 million at 31 December 2016, which were recognised as derivative financial assets in prior year.
CMOs have been reclassified to fixed income securities in the current year to better represent the nature of the investments.
Net assets held to cover linked liabilities, and third party holdings in unit trusts, are considered to have a maturity of up to one year since the corresponding unit liabilities are repayable and transferable on demand.
See accounting policy af for further information on current and non-current disclosure.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 148 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Investment Property 2017 2016 Million Million Balance at 1 January 1,462.4 1,344.9 Additions 88.5 131.6 Capitalised expenditure on existing properties 7.0 9.3 Disposals 6.2 Changes in fair value 79.2 23.4 Balance at 31 December 1,630.9 1,462.4 Investment property is held within unit linked funds and is considered current, however as investment properties are not traded in an organised public market they are relatively illiquid compared with many other asset classes.
There are no restrictions on the realisability of the Groups individual properties, or on the remittance of income or proceeds of disposal.
Investment property is valued monthly by external chartered surveyors in accordance with the guidance issued by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
The investment property valuation has been prepared using the market approach valuation technique using prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable i. e. similar assets.
The historical cost of investment properties held at 31 December 2017 is 1,480.6 million 2016: 1,392.5 million.
This represents the price paid for investment properties, prior to any subsequent revaluation.
The rental income and direct operating expenses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of investment properties are set out below.
All expenses relate to property generating rental income.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Rental income 82.3 72.4 Direct operating expenses 6.8 6.3 At the year-end contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property amounted to 12.5million 2016: 4.5 million.
The most significant contractual obligation is the purchase of a new investment property for 11.3 million.
This property is in construction, with the contractual obligation being dependent on the property being completed to the agreed standard by an agreed date.
Contractual obligations to dispose of investment property amounted to nil 2016: nil.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Cash at bank 274.7 341.1 Cash held by third parties 4.8 Cash and cash equivalents not held to cover unit liabilities 274.7 345.9 Balances held to cover unit liabilities 7,005.9 7,067.2 Total cash and cash equivalents 7,280.6 7,413.1 All cash and cash equivalents are considered current.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 149 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 11.
OTHER RECEIVABLES 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Receivables in relation to unit liabilities 885.1 834.1 Other receivables in relation to insurance and unit trust business 124.0 147.3 Operational readiness prepayment 170.6 121.1 Advanced payments to Partners 39.5 31.2 Other prepayments 58.2 45.1 Business loans to Partners 263.9 212.2 Renewal income assets 71.6 58.9 Miscellaneous 7.1 23.1 Total other receivables 1,620.0 1,473.0 Current 1,168.1 1,137.9 Non-current 451.9 335.1 1,620.0 1,473.0 All items within other receivables meet the definition of financial assets with the exception of prepayments and advanced payments to Partners.
Receivables in relation to unit liabilities primarily relate to outstanding market trade settlements sales in the life unit linked funds and the consolidated unit trusts.
Other receivables in relation to insurance and unit trust business primarily relate to outstanding policy-related settlement timings.
Both of these categories of receivables are short-term, typically settled within three days.
The operational readiness prepayment relates to the new administration platform being developed by our key outsourced back-office administration provider.
Management has assessed the recoverability of this prepayment against the expected cost saving benefit of lower future tariff costs arising from the new platform.
It is believed that any reasonably possible change in the assumptions applied within this assessment, such as levels of future business, the anticipated future service tariffs and the discount rate, would have no impact on the carrying value of the asset.
Business loans to Partners are interest bearing linked to Bank of England base rate plus a margin, repayable on demand and secured against the future renewal income streams of the Partner.
The balance of lending is shown net of a 4.5 million provision 2016: 3.3 million.
During the year 0.1 million of the provision was utilised 2016: 0.4 million utilised whilst new provisions and adjustments to existing provisions increased the total by 1.3 million 2016: 0.7 million increase.
The fair value of loans and receivables included in other receivables is not materially different from amortised cost.
Movement in Renewal Income Assets 2017 2016 Million Million At 1 January 58.9 26.8 Additions 14.5 38.2 Revaluation 1.8 6.1 Total renewal income at 31 December 71.6 58.9 The key assumptions used for the assessment of the fair value of the renewal income are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 1 Lapse rate SJP Partner renewal income 5.0% to 15.0% 5.0% to 15.0% 1 Lapse rate Non SJP renewal income 15.0% to 25.0% 15.0% to 25.0% Discount rate 5.0% to 7.5% 5.0% to 7.5% 1 Future income streams are projected making use of persistency assumptions derived from the Groups experience of the business or, where insufficient data exists, from external industry experience.
These assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis.
These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each business combination classified within renewal income.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 150 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 12.
OTHER PAYABLES 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Payables in relation to unit liabilities 420.4 558.7 Other payables in relation to insurance and unit trust business 412.2 300.0 Accruals 152.3 146.9 Accruals to Partners 87.6 74.2 Miscellaneous 158.7 93.8 Total other payables 1,231.2 1,173.6 Current 1,140.4 1,123.7 Non-current 90.8 49.9 1,231.2 1,173.6 Payables in relation to unit liabilities primarily relate to outstanding market trade settlements purchases in the life unit linked funds and the consolidated unit trusts.
Other payables in relation to insurance and unit trust business primarily relate to outstanding policy-related settlement timings.
Both of these categories of payables are short term, typically settled within three days.
Included within miscellaneous is a Contract Payment of 92.5 million 2016: 49.8 million which is non-interest bearing and repayable on a straight-line basis over the life of a twelve-year service agreement.
The repayment period commenced on 1 January 2017.
The fair value of financial instruments held at amortised cost within other payables is not materially different from amortised cost.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES AND REINSURANCE ASSETS Risk Insurance risk arises from inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts under which the Group agrees to compensate the client or other beneficiary if a specified future event the insured event occurs.
The Group insures mortality and morbidity risks but has no longevity risk as we have never written any annuity business.
The Group has a medium appetite for insurance risk, only actively pursuing it where financially beneficial, or in support of strategic objectives.
Risk Description Management Underwriting Failure to price appropriately for a risk, or the The Group ceased writing new protection business in April 2011. impact of anti-selection.
For most business the premium or deduction rates can be re-set.
The Group has fully reinsured the UK insurance risk.
Epidemic disaster An unusually large number of claims arising from Protection is provided through reinsurance.
The Group has fully a single incident or event.
reinsured the UK insurance risk.
Expense Administration costs exceed expense allowance.
Administration is outsourced and a tariff of costs is agreed.
The contract is monitored regularly to rationalise costs incurred.
Internal overhead expenses are monitored and closely managed.
Retention Unexpected movement in future profit due to Retention of insurance contracts is closely monitored and unexpected more or less clients than anticipated experience is investigated.
Retention experience has continued in line withdrawing their funds.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 13.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES AND REINSURANCE ASSETS CONTINUED Insurance Contract Liabilities 2017 2016 Million Million Balance at 1 January 518.2 463.5 Movement in unit linked liabilities 23.6 58.9 Movement in liabilities New business 0.1 Existing business 1.0 0.4 Other assumption changes 1.1 3.2 Experience variance 2.6 7.0 Total movement in liabilities 2.8 4.2 Balance at 31 December 544.6 518.2 Unit linked 459.0 435.4 Non-unit linked 85.6 82.8 544.6 518.2 Current 86.2 81.0 Non-current 458.4 437.2 544.6 518.2 See accounting policy af for further information on the current and non-current disclosure.
The movement in insurance contract liabilities in relation to new business represents the change in insurance contract liabilities for incremental business written during the year for existing policies.
The Group closed to new insurance business in 2009.
Reinsurance Assets 2017 2016 Million Million Reconciliation of the movement in the net reinsurance balance: Reinsurance assets at 1 January 80.5 85.0 Reinsurance component of change in insurance liabilities 2.3 4.5 Reinsurance assets at 31 December 82.8 80.5 Current 13.1 12.6 Non-current 69.7 67.9 82.8 80.5 The overall impact of reinsurance on the profit for the year was a net charge of 4.0 million 2016:charge of 5.7 million.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 152 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Assumptions Used in the Calculation of Insurance Liabilities and Reinsurance Assets The principal assumptions used in the calculation of the liabilities are: Assumption Description Interest rate The valuation interest rate is calculated by reference to the long-term gilt yield at 31 December 2017.
The specific rates used are between 0.9% and 1.3% depending on the tax regime 1.0% and 1.4% at 31 December 2016.
Mortality Mortality is based on Group experience and is set at 72% of the TM F92 tables with an additional loading for smokers.
There has been no change since 2006.
Morbidity Morbidity is based on Group experience.
There has been no change during 2017.
Sample annual Critical Illness rates per for a male non-smoker are: Age Rate 2016 and 2017 25 0.000760 35 0.001334 45 0.003189 Morbidity Morbidity is based on Group experience.
Sample annual Permanent Health Insurance rates per income benefit p. a. for a male non-smoker are: Age Rate 2016 and 2017 25 0.00366 35 0.00965 45 0.02092 Expenses Contract liabilities are calculated allowing for the actual costs of administration of the business.
The assumption has been amended to allow for changes to the underlying administration costs.
Annual Cost Product 2017 2016 Protection business 37.49 36.75 Persistency Allowance is made for a prudent level of lapses within the calculation of the liabilities.
The rates have not changed in 2017.
Sample annual lapse rates are: Lapses 2016 and 2017 Year 1 Year 5 Year 10 Protection business 7% 9% 8% Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 153 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 13.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES AND REINSURANCE ASSETS CONTINUED Sensitivity Analysis The table below sets out the sensitivity of the profit on insurance business and net assets to changes in key assumptions.
The levels of sensitivity tested are consistent with those proposed in the EEV principles and reflect reasonably possible levels of change in the assumptions.
The analysis reflects the change in the variable assumption shown while all other variables assumptions are left unchanged.
In practice variables assumptions may change at the same time, as some may be correlated for example, an increase in interest rates may also result in an increase in expenses if the increase reflects higher inflation.
It should also be noted that in some instances sensitivities are non-linear.
The sensitivity percentage has been applied to proportion the assumption: for example, application of a 10% sensitivity to a withdrawal assumption of 8% will reduce it to 7.2%.
Change in Change in profit loss profit loss Change in Change in Change in before tax before tax net assets net assets Sensitivity analysis assumption 2017 2016 2017 2016 % Million Million Million Million Withdrawal rates -10% 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 Expense assumptions -10% 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 Mortality morbidity -5% 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 A change in interest rates will have no material impact on insurance profit or net assets.
OTHER PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Total provisions 'Million At 1 January 2016 15.4 Utilised during the year 8.8 Additional provisions 10.5 At 31 December 2016 17.1 At 1 January 2017 17.1 Additional provisions 20.5 Utilised during the year 16.2 Release of provision 1.4 At 31 December 2017 20.0 Current 11.5 Non-current 8.5 20.0 Total provisions relate to the cost of redress for complaints and clawback of indemnity commission.
The provision for the cost of redress for complaints is based on estimates of the total number of complaints expected to be upheld, the estimated cost of redress and the expected timing of settlement.
The clawback provision is based on estimates of the indemnity commission that may be repaid.
As more fully set out in the summary of principal risks and uncertainties on pages 49 to 51, the Group could in the course of its business be subject to legal proceedings and or regulatory activity.
Should such an event arise, the Board would consider their best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation and, where appropriate and material, establish a provision.
While there can be no assurances that circumstances will not change, based upon information currently available to them, the Directors do not believe there is any possible activity or event that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
During the normal course of business, the Group may from time to time provide guarantees to Partners, clients or other third parties.
However, based upon the information currently available to them, the Directors do not believe there are any guarantees which would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, and so the fair value of any guarantees has been assessed as nil 2016: nil.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 154 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 15.
BORROWINGS AND FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Borrowings 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 'Million 'Million Bank borrowings 165.8 231.3 Loan notes 114.1 50.1 Total borrowings 279.9 281.4 Current 0.8 1.3 Non-current 279.1 280.1 279.9 281.4 Borrowings are a liability arising from financing activities.
The primary borrowings in the Group are: A 340 million revolving credit facility, which includes a 90 million extension agreed in 2017 to the original 250 million facility entered into with a group of UK banks in 2015.
The facility is repayable over five years to 2022 with a variable interest rate.
At 31 December 2017 the undrawn credit available under this facility was 179 million 31 December 2016: 25 million : and A US $160 million private shelf facility, also entered into in 2015.
The Group authorised the issue of 50 million of loan notes during 2015, and a further issue of 64 million of loans notes during 2017 in relation to this facility.
Both note issues were denominated in Sterling, eliminating any Group currency risk.
The notes are repayable over ten years, ending in 2025 and 2027 respectively, with variable interestrates.
The movement in borrowings over the year are as follows: 2017 2016 'Million 'Million Borrowings at 1 January 281.4 181.8 Additional borrowing during the year 100.0 100.0 Repayment of borrowings during the year 101.0 0.9 Costs on additional borrowings during the year 0.9 Unwind of borrowing costs 0.4 0.5 Borrowings at 31 December 279.9 281.4 The Group also guarantees loans provided by third parties to Partners.
In the event of default of any individual Partner loan, the Group guarantees to repay the full amount of the loan, with the exception of Metro Bank plc, where 50% of the loan is guaranteed.
These loans are secured against the future renewal income streams of the Partner.
The value of the loans guaranteed is as follows: Loans Drawn Facility 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million Bank of Scotland 65.4 54.0 80.0 80.0 1 1 Metro Bank plc 46.7 35.6 61.0 47.5 Santander plc 55.0 47.2 75.0 50.0 Total loans 167.1 136.8 216.0 177.5 1 The Metro Bank plc facility at 31 December 2016 has been amended to show the amount of the facility that is guaranteed by the Group, as opposed to the total facility of 95.0 million available to Partners which was previously disclosed.
The fair value of the outstanding borrowings and guarantees is not materially different from amortised cost.
Interest expense on borrowings is recognised within expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 155 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 15.
BORROWINGS AND FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS CONTINUED Financial Commitments The Group has commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in connection with the rental of office buildings and office equipment with varying lease end dates ranging from 2017 to 2042.
The following table represents the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 'Million 'Million Not later than one year 18.1 15.6 Later than one year and not later than five years 56.2 53.8 Later than five years 74.4 65.0 Total financial commitments 148.7 134.4 As at 31 December 2017, there was 0.2 million 2016: 0.2 million of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases.
FINANCIAL RISK Risk Management Objectives and Risk Policies The Groups financial risk can usefully be considered in two categories of assets: 1.
Assets backing unit liabilities see Note 10 : and 2.
In general, the policyholder bears the financial risk on assets backing the unitised business, and risk from shareholder assets is minimised through investment in liquid assets with a strong credit rating.
Exposure to the following risks for the two categories of assets is analysed separately in the following sections, in line with the requirements of IFRS 7: Credit risk Liquidity risk Market risk Currency risk Credit risk is the risk of loss due to a debtors non-payment of a loan or other line of credit.
Credit risk also arises from holdings of cash and cash equivalents, deposits and formal loans with banks and financial institutions.
The Group has adopted a risk averse approach to such risk and has a stated policy of not actively pursuing or accepting credit risk except when necessary to support other objectives.
Risk Description Management Shareholders Loss of assets or Shareholder funds are predominantly invested in AAA-rated unitised money market funds, which are assets reduction in value classified as investments in collective investment schemes CIS, and deposits with approved banks, but may be invested in sovereign fixed interest securities such as UK gilts where regulatory constraints on other assets apply.
Maximum counterparty limits are set for each company within the Group and aggregate limits are also set at a Group level.
Reinsurance Failure of Credit ratings of potential reinsurers must meet or exceed AA-.
Consideration is also given to size, risk counterparty or concentrations exposures and ownership in the selection of reinsurers.
The Group also seeks to diversify counterparty its reinsurance credit risk through the use of a spread of reinsurers.
unable to meet liabilities Partner loans Inability of Loans and advances are managed in line with the Groups secured lending policy.
Loans are secured on and advances Partners to repay the future renewal income stream expected from a Partners portfolio and loan advances vary in relation loans or advances to the projected future income of the relevant Partner.
Outstanding balances are regularly reviewed and from the Group assessed on a conservative basis.
Support is provided to help Partners manage their business appropriately.
Appropriate provision is made where there is objective evidence of impairment.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 156 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure such resources only at excessive cost.
The Group is averse to liquidity risk and seeks to minimise this risk by not actively pursuing it except where necessary to support other objectives.
Risk Description Management Cash or A significant cash The majority of free assets are invested in cash or cash equivalents and the cash position and forecast expense or expense are monitored on a monthly basis.
The Group also maintains a margin of free assets in excess of the requirement requirement minimum required solvency capital within its regulated entities.
Further, the Group has established needs to be met committed borrowing facilities see Note 15 intended to further mitigate liquidity risk.
Market risk is the impact a fall in the value of equity or other asset markets may have on the business.
The Group adopts a risk averse approach to market risk, with a stated solvency policy of not actively pursuing or accepting market risk except where necessary to support other objectives.
However, the Group accepts the risk that the fall in equity or other asset markets will reduce the level of annual management charge income derived from policyholder assets and the risk of lower future profits.
The table below summarises the main market risks that the business is exposed to and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk Description Management Client As a result of a reduction in equity values, the This risk is substantially mitigated by the Groups strategic focus on unitised liabilities Group may be unable to meet client liabilities.
business, by not providing guarantees to clients on policy values and by the matching of assets and liabilities.
Retention Loss of future profit on investment contracts Retention of investment contracts is closely monitored and unexpected due to more clients than anticipated experience variances are investigated.
Retention has remained consistently withdrawing their funds, particularly as a strong throughout 2017, despite volatile market conditions.
result of poor investment performance.
New Poor performance in the financial markets in The benefit to clients of longer-term equity investment as part of a diversified business absolute terms, and relative to inflation, leads portfolio of assets is fundamental to our philosophy.
Advice and marketing to existing and future clients rejecting become even more important when market values fall, and greater attention is investment in longer-term assets.
required to support and give confidence to existing and future clients in such circumstances.
This is taken account of by the Group in its activities.
Currency Risk The Group is not subject to any significant direct currency risk, since all material shareholder financial assets and financial liabilities are denominated in Sterling.
However, since future profits are dependent on charges based on FUM, changes in FUM as a result of currency movements will impact future profits.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 157 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 16.
FINANCIAL RISK CONTINUED Shareholder Assets Categories of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities The categories and carrying values of the shareholder financial assets and financial liabilities held in the Groups statement of financial position are summarised in the table below: Financial assets at Financial liabilities fair value through Available Loans and measured at 1 31 December 2017 profit and loss for sale receivables amortised cost Total 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 46.1 46.1 2 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,416.8 1,416.8 3 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 263.9 263.9 Renewal income assets 71.6 71.6 Other 540.3 540.3 Total other receivables 71.6 804.2 875.8 Cash and cash equivalents 274.7 274.7 Total financial assets 1,462.9 71.6 1,078.9 2,613.4 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 279.9 279.9 Other payables 1,079.7 1,079.7 Total financial liabilities 1,359.6 1,359.6 Financial assets at Financial liabilities fair value through Available Loans and measured at 1 4 31 December 2016 profit and loss for sale receivables amortised cost Total 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 47.7 47.7 2 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 867.4 867.4 3 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 212.2 212.2 Renewal income assets 58.9 58.9 Other 817.3 817.3 Total other receivables 58.9 1,029.5 1,088.4 Cash and cash equivalents 345.9 345.9 Total financial assets 915.1 58.9 1,375.4 2,349.4 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 281.4 281.4 Other payables 790.1 790.1 Total financial liabilities 1,071.5 1,071.5 1 All financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such upon initial recognition.
2 All assets included as shareholder investment in collective investment schemes are holdings of high quality, highly liquid Money Market funds, containing assets which are cash and cash equivalents.
3 Other receivables excludes prepayments and unearned commission, which are not considered financial assets.
4 The renewal income asset has been reclassified from fair value through profit and loss, where it was presented in 2016, to available for sale to better represent the nature of the asset.
Impairment of the asset continues to be recognised in the income statement as it results from a change in the expected future cash flows.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 158 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Income, Expense, Gains and Losses Arising from Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities The income, expense, gains and losses arising from shareholder financial assets and financial liabilities are summarised in the table below: Financial assets at Financial liabilities fair value through Available Loans and measured at 1 Year Ended 31 December 2017 profit and loss for sale receivables amortised cost Total 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 0.1 0.1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 3.0 3.0 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 6.9 6.9 Renewal income assets 1.8 1.8 Total other receivables 1.8 6.9 5.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 0.6 Total financial assets 3.1 1.8 7.5 8.8 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 4.9 4.9 Other payables 0.8 0.8 Total financial liabilities 5.7 5.7 Financial assets at Financial liabilities fair value through Available Loans and measured at 1 2 Year Ended 31 December 2016 profit and loss for sale receivables amortised cost Total 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 2.3 2.3 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2.9 2.9 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 6.3 6.3 Renewal income assets 6.1 6.1 Total other receivables 6.1 6.3 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 1.2 1.2 Total financial assets 5.2 6.1 7.5 6.6 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 4.9 4.9 Other payables 0.5 0.5 Total financial liabilities 5.4 5.4 1 All financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such upon initial recognition.
2 The renewal income asset has been reclassified from fair value through profit and loss, where it was presented in 2016, to available for sale to better represent the nature of the asset.
Losses have been recognised within the investment return line in the statement of comprehensive income.
Fair Value Estimation Financial assets and liabilities, which are held at fair value in the financial statements, are required to have disclosed their fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 : and Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 159 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 16.
FINANCIAL RISK CONTINUED Shareholder Assets continued The following table presents the Groups shareholder assets measured at fair value.
There are no shareholder liabilities measured at fair value: 31 December 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million Financial assets Fixed income securities 46.1 46.1 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,416.8 1,416.8 Renewal income assets 71.6 71.6 Total financial assets 1,462.9 71.6 1,534.5 31 December 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million Financial assets 2 Fixed income securities 47.7 47.7 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 867.4 867.4 Renewal incomes assets 58.9 58.9 Total financial assets 915.1 58.9 974.0 1 All assets included as shareholder investment in collective investment schemes are holdings of high quality, highly liquid unitised money market funds, containing assets which are cash and cash equivalents.
2 Government bonds have been reclassified from Level 2 to Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy to reflect the fact that they are valued using an observable market price.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted bid prices at the reporting date, as described in the accounting policy o.
These instruments are included in Level 1.
Level 2 financial assets and liabilities are valued using observable prices for identical current arms length transactions.
The Renewal income assets are Level 3 and are valued using a discounted cash flow technique and the assumptions outlined in Note 11.
The effect of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions of a movement of 100bps on the discount rate and a 10% movement in the lapse rate would result in an unfavourable change in valuation of 5.8 million and a favourable change in valuation of 6.1 million, respectively.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year, other than in respect of the representation of government bonds noted above, nor into or out of Level 3.
Movement in Level 3 Portfolios Renewal income assets 2017 2016 'Million 'Million At 1 January 58.9 26.8 Additions during the year 14.5 38.2 Losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 1.8 6.1 At 31 December 71.6 58.9 Unrealised losses 1.8 6.1 Losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 1.8 6.1 St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 160 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Credit Risk The following table sets out the maximum credit risk exposure and ratings of shareholder financial and other assets which are susceptible to credit risk: 31 December 2017 AAA AA A BBB Unrated Total 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million Fixed income securities 3.9 42.2 46.1 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,416.8 1,416.8 Reinsurance assets 82.8 82.8 Other receivables 7.1 868.7 875.8 Cash and cash equivalents 76.2 162.2 14.2 22.1 274.7 Total 1,420.7 208.3 162.2 14.2 890.8 2,696.2 31 December 2016 AAA AA A BBB Unrated Total 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million Fixed income securities 4.8 42.9 47.7 1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 867.4 867.4 2 Reinsurance assets 80.5 80.5 2 Other receivables 6.3 1,082.1 1,088.4 Cash and cash equivalents 68.3 207.6 42.3 27.7 345.9 Total 872.2 198.0 207.6 42.3 1,109.8 2,429.9 1 Investment of shareholder assets in Collective Investment Schemes refers to investment in unitised money market funds, containing assets which are cash and cash equivalents.
2 Reinsurance assets have been added, and other receivables restated in the comparative table to correctly present the maximum exposure to credit risk on these assets.
The total unrated other receivables have increased by 80.5 million to 1,021.7 million.
Other receivables includes 263.9 million 2016: 212.2 million of loans to St. Jamess Place Partners, which are interest bearing linked to Bank of England base rate plus a margin, repayable on demand and secured against the future renewal income streams of the Partner.
Impairment of these loans is determined taking into account a range of factors including default history, the nature or type of the Partner loan, exposure levels to individual Partners and whether the individual Partner is active or has left.
The loan balance is presented net of a 4.5 million provision 2016: 3.3 million : see also Note 11.
The movement in the impairment provision will reflect utilisation of the existing provision during the year, but the overall cost of Partner business loans including new provisions recognised within administration expenses in the statement of comprehensive income during the year was a charge of 1.8 million 2016:1.8million.
The value of the loans that are past due but not impaired is not considered to be material and has therefore not been aged.
There are no other financial assets that are impaired, would have been past due or impaired were it not for a term renegotiation, or are past due but not impaired.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 161 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 16.
FINANCIAL RISK CONTINUED Shareholder Assets continued Contractual Maturity and Liquidity Analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 December 2017: Up to 1 1 to 5 Over 5 31 December 2017 year years years Total 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 46.1 46.1 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 1,416.8 1,416.8 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 57.0 108.8 98.1 263.9 Renewal income assets 13.4 30.2 28.0 71.6 Other 540.3 540.3 Total other receivables 610.7 139.0 126.1 875.8 Cash and cash equivalents 274.7 274.7 Total financial assets 2,348.3 139.0 126.1 2,613.4 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 1.2 185.4 95.1 281.7 Other payables 989.0 48.3 70.0 1,107.3 Total financial liabilities 990.2 233.7 165.1 1,389.0 Up to 1 1 to 5 Over 5 31 December 2016 year years years Total 'Million 'Million 'Million 'Million Financial Assets Fixed income securities 47.7 47.7 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 867.4 867.4 Other receivables Business loans to Partners 62.5 114.2 35.5 212.2 Renewal income assets 10.1 26.1 22.7 58.9 Other 817.3 817.3 Total other receivables 889.9 140.3 58.2 1,088.4 Cash and cash equivalents 345.9 345.9 Total financial assets 2,150.9 140.3 58.2 2,349.4 Financial Liabilities Borrowings 1.3 228.0 53.4 282.7 Other payables 740.2 25.1 24.8 790.1 Total financial liabilities 741.5 253.1 78.2 1,072.8 Sensitivity Analysis to Market Risks Financial assets and liabilities held outside unitised funds primarily consist of fixed interest securities, units in money market funds, cash and cash equivalents, and other accounting assets and liabilities.
The fixed interest securities are short-term and are held as an alternative to cash.
Similarly, cash held in unitised money market funds and at bank is valued at par and is unaffected by movement in interest rates.
Other assets and liabilities are similarly unaffected by market movements.
As a result of these combined factors, the Groups financial assets and liabilities held outside unitised funds are not materially subject to market risk, and movements at the reporting date in interest rates and equity values have an immaterial impact on the Groups profit after tax and equity.
Future profits from annual management charges may be affected by movements in interest rates and equity values.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 162 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Unit Liabilities and Associated Assets Categories of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Assets held to cover unit liabilities are summarised in Note10, and all are held at fair value through profit or loss.
They are designated as such upon initial recognition.
Income, Expense, Gains and Losses Arising from Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities The income, expense, gains and losses arising from financial assets and financial liabilities are summarised in the table below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Financial Assets and Investment Properties Investment properties 154.7 42.8 Other assets backing unit liabilities 5,545.1 7,456.7 Total financial assets and investment properties 5,699.8 7,499.5 1 Financial Liabilities Unit liabilities 4,921.3 6,336.8 Total financial liabilities 4,921.3 6,336.8 1 None of the change in the fair value of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss is attributable to changes in their credit risk.
Fair Value Estimation Financial assets and liabilities, which are held at fair value in the financial statements, are required to have disclosed their fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 : or Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value: 31 December 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Million Million Million Million Financial assets and investment properties Investment property 1,630.9 1,630.9 Equities 55,086.9 55,086.9 Fixed income securities 4,666.0 12,468.6 17,134.6 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 4,483.7 2.9 4,486.6 Derivative financial instruments 343.4 343.4 Cash and cash equivalents 7,005.9 7,005.9 Total financial assets and investment properties 71,242.5 12,812.0 1,633.8 85,688.3 Financial liabilities Investment contract benefits 64,014.3 64,014.3 Derivative financial instruments 190.3 190.3 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 21,349.1 21,349.1 Total financial liabilities 21,349.1 64,204.6 85,553.7 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 163 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 16.
FINANCIAL RISK CONTINUED Unit Liabilities and Associated Assets continued 31 December 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Million Million Million Million Financial assets and investment properties Investment property 1,462.4 1,462.4 Equities 46,598.7 46,598.7 1 2 Fixed income securities 3,450.8 9,457.2 12,908.0 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2,996.0 1.4 2,997.4 2 Derivative financial instruments 218.9 218.9 Cash and cash equivalents 7,067.2 7,067.2 Total financial assets and investment properties 60,112.7 9,676.1 1,463.8 71,252.6 Financial liabilities Investment contract benefits 53,307.1 53,307.1 Derivative financial instruments 281.9 281.9 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 17,032.0 17,032.0 Total financial liabilities 17,032.0 53,589.0 70,621.0 1 Government bonds have been reclassified from level 2 to level 1 in the fair value hierarchy to reflect the fact that they are valued using an observable market price.
2 Collateralised mortgage obligations are mortgage backed securitised.
These were recognised as derivative financial assets in 2016.
They have been reclassified to fixed income securities in the current year to better represent the nature of the investments.
In respect of the derivative financial liabilities, 116.0 million of collateral has been posted at 31 December 2017 2016: 171.1 million, comprising cash and treasury bills, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the derivative contracts.
The Group closely monitors the valuation of assets in markets that have become less liquid.
Determining whether a market is active requires the exercise of judgement and is determined based upon the facts and circumstances of the market for the instrument being measured.
Where it is determined that there is no active market, fair value is established using a valuation technique.
The techniques applied incorporate relevant information available and reflect appropriate adjustments for credit and liquidity risks.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
The relative weightings given to differing sources of information and the determination of non-observable inputs to valuation models can require the exercise of significant judgement.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
Note that all of the resulting fair value estimates are included in Level 2, except for certain equities and investments in CIS and investment properties as detailed below.
Specific valuation techniques used to value Level 2 financial assets and liabilities include: The use of observable prices for identical current arms length transactions, specifically: The fair value of unit linked liabilities is assessed by reference to the value of the underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds, determined on a bid value basis, at the reporting date: and The Groups derivative financial instruments are valued using valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
These consist of discounted cash flow and options pricing models, which typically incorporate observable market data, principally interest rates, basis spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and counterparty credit.
Specific valuation techniques used to value Level 3 financial assets and liabilities include: The use of unobservable inputs, such as expected rental values and equivalent yields: and Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow and historic lapse rates, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 164 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Transfers into and out of Level 3 Portfolios Transfers out of Level 3 portfolios arise when inputs that could have a significant impact on the instruments valuation become market observable: conversely, transfers into the portfolios arise when consistent sources of data cease to be available.
Transfers in of certain equities and investments in CIS occur when asset valuations can no longer be obtained from an observable market price i. e. become illiquid, in liquidation, suspended etc.
The converse is true if an observable market price becomes available.
The following table presents the changes in Level 3 financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the profit and loss: Investment Year Ended 31 December 2017 property CIS Million Million At 1 January 2017 1,462.4 1.4 Transfer into Level 3 1.6 Additions during the year 95.5 Disposed during the year 6.2 0.1 Gains recognised in the income statement 79.2 At 31 December 2017 1,630.9 2.9 Realised losses 1.1 Unrealised gains 80.3 Gains recognised in the income statement 79.2 0.0 Investment Year Ended 31 December 2016 property CIS Million Million At 1 January 2016 1,344.9 2.7 Transfer into Level 3 0.4 Additions during the year 140.9 Disposed during the year Losses recognised in the income statement 23.4 1.7 At 31 December 2016 1,462.4 1.4 Realised losses Unrealised losses 23.4 1.7 Losses recognised in the income statement 23.4 1.7 Gains losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are included within investment return for certain equities and investments in Collective Investment Schemes and investment property.
Level 3 Valuations The principal assets classified as Level 3 are investment properties amounting to 1,630.9 million 2016: 1,462.4 million.
Investment property is initially measured at cost including related acquisition costs and subsequently valued monthly by professional external valuers at their respective fair values at each reporting date.
The fair values derived are based on anticipated market values for the properties in accordance with the guidance issued by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, being the estimated amount that would be received from a sale of the assets in an orderly transaction between market participants.
The valuation of investment property is inherently subjective as it requires among other factors, assumptions to be made regarding the ability of existing tenants to meet their rental obligations over the entire life of their leases, the estimation of the expected rental income in to the future, an assessment of a propertys ability to remain as an attractive technical configuration to existing and prospective tenants in a changing market and a judgement to be reached on the attractiveness of a building, its location and the surrounding environment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 165 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 16.
FINANCIAL RISK CONTINUED Unit Liabilities and Associated Assets continued Investment property classification 31 December 2017 Office Industrial Retail & leisure All 1 Gross ERV per sq ft Range 14.66 to 96.50 3.50 to 15.75 4.50 to 427.84 3.50 to 427.84 Weighted average 32.02 7.28 15.51 14.12 True equivalent yield Range 3.9% to 8.4% 4.2% to 6.7% 4.6% to 13.8% 3.9% to 13.8% Weighted average 5.3% 5.3% 6.0% 5.6% 31 December 2016 1 Gross ERV per sq ft Range 14.66 to 96.50 3.50 to 15.75 4.50 to 427.84 3.50 to 427.84 Weighted average 31.63 6.94 15.05 13.74 True equivalent yield Range 3.9% to 8.4% 5.3% to 7.3% 4.8% to 13.6% 3.9% to 13.6% Weighted average 5.4% 6.1% 5.9% 5.8% 1 Equivalent rental value per square foot Sensitivity of Level 3 Valuations The valuation of certain equities and investments in CIS are based on the latest observable price available.
Whilst such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing the price applied to a reasonably possible alternative would not change the fair value significantly.
The following table sets out the effect of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions to the valuation of the investment properties.
Any change in the value of investment property is matched by the associated movement in the policyholder liability and therefore would not impact on the shareholder net assets.
Effect of reasonable possible alternative assumptions Favourable Unfavourable Investment property significant unobservable inputs Carrying Value changes changes Million Million Million 31 December 2017 Expected rental value Relative yield 1,630.9 1,782.1 1,496.1 31 December 2016 Expected rental value Relative yield 1,462.4 1,598.3 1,341.9 Credit Risk Credit risk relating to unit liabilities is borne by the unit holders.
Contractual Maturity and Liquidity Analysis Unit liabilities and the associated assets are deemed to have a maturity of up to one year since they are repayable and transferable on demand.
In practice the contractual maturities of the assets may be longer than one year, but the majority of assets held within the unit linked and unit trust funds are highly liquid and the Group also actively monitors fund liquidity.
Sensitivity Analysis to Market Risks The majority of the Groups business is unitised and the direct associated market risk is therefore borne by unit holders.
For completeness, we note that there is an indirect risk associated with market performance as future shareholder income is dependent upon markets, however the direct risk has been mitigated through the Groups approach to matching assets and liabilities.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 166 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 17.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base in order to: Protect clients interests: Meet regulatory requirements: Protect creditors interests: and Create shareholder value through support for business development.
Within the Group, each subsidiary manages its own capital in the context of a Group capital plan.
Any capital in excess of planned requirements is returned to the Groups parent, St. Jamess Place plc, normally by way of dividends.
The Group capital position is monitored by the Finance Executive Committee on behalf of the St. Jamess Place plc Board.
Regulatory Capital The Groups Capital Management policy is for each subsidiary to hold the higher of: The capital required by any relevant supervisory body uplifted by a specified margin to absorb changes: or The capital required based on the Companys internal assessment.
For our insurance companies, we hold capital based on our own internal assessment, recognising the regulatory requirement.
For other regulated companies we generally hold capital based on the regulatory requirement uplifted by a specified margin.
The following entities are subject to regulatory supervision and have to maintain a minimum level of regulatory capital: Entity Regulatory Body and Jurisdiction St. Jamess Place UK plc PRA and FCA: Long-term insurance business St. Jamess Place International plc Central Bank of Ireland: Life insurance business St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited FCA: UCITS Management Company St. Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited FCA: Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PCIS Limited FCA: Securities and Futures Firm St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc FCA: Personal Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Partnership Services Limited FCA: Consumer Credit Firm BFS Financial Services Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm Hale Financial Solutions Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm Linden House Financial Services Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm LP Financial Management Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Hong Kong Limited Securities and Futures Commission Hong Kong : A Member of The Hong Kong Confederation of Insurance Brokers St. Jamess Place International Hong Kong Limited Insurance Authority Hong Kong St. Jamess Place Singapore Private Limited Monetary Authority Singapore: A Member of the Association of Financial Advisers Rowan Dartington & Co Limited FCA: Investment Firm St. Jamess Place EIS Limited UK AIFM Sub-threshold In addition, the St. Jamess Place Group is regulated as an Insurance Group under Solvency II, with the PRA as the lead regulator.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 167 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 17.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION CONTINUED As an insurance Group, St. Jamess Place is subject to the Solvency II regulations, which were implemented on 1January 2016.
More information about capital position of the Group under Solvency II regulations is set out in the separate Solvency and Financial Condition Report document.
The overall capital position for the Group at 31 December 2017, assessed on the Standard Formula basis, is presented in the following table: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million IFRS total assets 90,006.0 75,022.1 Less Solvency II valuation adjustments and unit linked liabilities 88,910.9 73,952.1 Solvency II net assets 1,095.1 1,070.0 Management Solvency Buffer MSB 461.9 527.0 Excess of free assets over MSB 633.2 543.0 Solvency II VIF 3,244.3 2,707.9 Risk margin 946.1 779.2 Standard formula SCR A 2,449.2 2,046.5 Sub-total 151.0 117.8 Solvency II Free Assets B 944.1 952.2 Solvency II ratio A B A 139% 147% An overall internal capital assessment is required for insurance groups.
This is known as an ORSA Own Risk and Solvency Assessment and is described in more detail in the section on Risk and Risk Management on page 47.
The capital requirement and the associated solvency of the Group are assessed and monitored by the Finance Executive Committee, a Committee of the Executive Board.
The regulatory requirements for the remaining companies within the Group are assessed and monitored by the relevant subsidiary boards.
There has been no material change in the level of capital required during the year, nor in the Groups management of capital.
All regulated entities exceeded the minimum solvency requirements at the reporting date and during the year.
IFRS Capital Composition The principal forms of capital are included in the following balances on the consolidated statement of financial position: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Share capital 79.4 79.1 Share premium 171.7 164.5 Shares in trust reserve 26.7 20.9 Miscellaneous reserves 2.5 2.5 Retained earnings 832.1 851.2 Shareholders equity 1,059.0 1,076.4 Non-controlling interests 0.9 0.8 Total equity 1,058.1 1,075.6 The above assets do not all qualify as regulatory capital.
The required minimum regulatory capital and analysis of the assets that qualify as regulatory capital are outlined in Section 4 of the Financial Review on page 40, which demonstrates that the Group has met its internal capital objectives.
The Group and its individually regulated operations have complied with all externally and internally imposed capital requirements throughout the year.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 168 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 18.
SHARE CAPITAL, EARNINGS PER SHARE AND DIVIDENDS Share Capital Number of Called up Ordinary Shares Share Capital Million At 1 January 2016 524,665,212 78.7 Issue of share capital 108,819 Exercise of options 2,708,317 0.4 At 31 December 2016 527,482,348 79.1 Issue of share capital 372,325 0.1 Exercise of options 1,223,223 0.2 At 31 December 2017 529,077,896 79.4 The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 605 million 2016: 605 million, with a par value of 15pence per share 2016: 15 pence per share.
All issued shares are fully paid.
Included in the issued share capital are 4,210,906 2016: 3,954,525 shares held in the Shares in Trust Reserve with a nominal value of 0.6 million 2016: 0.6 million.
The shares are held by the SJPC Employee Share Trust and the St. Jamess Place 2010 SIP Trust to satisfy certain share-based payment schemes.
The trustees of the SJPC Employee Share Trust retain the right to dividends on the shares held by the Trust but have chosen to waive their entitlement to the dividends on 1,755,831 shares at 31 December 2017 and 1,330,156 shares at 31 December 2016.
No dividends have been waived on shares held in the St. Jamess Place 2010 SIP Trust in 2017 or 2016.
The number of shares reserved for issue under options and contracts for sale of shares, including terms and conditions, is included within Note 19.
Earnings per Share Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Earnings Profit after tax attributable to equity shareholders for both basic and diluted EPS 145.9 112.2 Million Million Weighted average number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic EPS 524.3 522.6 Adjustments for outstanding share options 8.8 3.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted EPS 533.1 525.9 Pence Pence Earnings per share EPS Basic earnings per share 27.8 21.5 Diluted earnings per share 27.4 21.3 Dividends The following dividends have been paid by the Group: Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 Pence per Pence per Million Million Share Share Final dividend in respect of previous financial year 20.67 17.24 108.8 90.4 Interim dividend in respect of current financial year 15.41 12.33 81.2 64.8 Total dividends 36.08 29.57 190.0 155.2 The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 27.45 pence per share 2016: 20.67 pence.
This amounts to 145.2 million 2016: 108.8 million and will, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, be paid on 1 June 2018 to those shareholders on the register as at 6 April 2018.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 169 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 19.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS During the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group operated a number of different equity and cash settled share-based payment arrangements, which are aggregated as follows: Share Option Schemes Save As You Earn SAYE plan this is a standard HMRC approved equity-settled scheme that is available to all employees where individuals may contribute up to 250 per month over the three-year vesting period to purchase shares at a price not less than 80% of the market price at the date of the invitation to participate.
The are no other vesting conditions.
Partner Share Option Schemes these equity-settled awards were offered to the Partners of the St. Jamess Place Partnership and vest over three to six years subject to satisfying personal new business-related performance criteria.
The last award under these schemes was made in 2007.
Partner Performance Share Plan under this plan Partners are entitled to purchase shares in the future at nominal value 15 pence.
The number of shares the Partners are entitled to purchase will depend on their personal business volumes in a specified twelve-month period and validation over the following three years.
The first award under the scheme was made on 29 July 2016, when 3,385,801 shares were granted.
Partner and Adviser Chartered Plan the scheme was launched during 2015 as part of the Partner performance share plan whereby Partners and Advisers are entitled to purchase shares in the future at nominal value 15 pence.
The number of shares the Partners are entitled to purchase will depend upon achieving specific professional qualifications and a threshold new business level in a specified twelve-month period and validation over the following three years.
The first award under the scheme was made on 29 July 2016, when 1,988,648 shares were granted.
Associate Partner Plan a new equity-settled scheme was launched during 2017 whereby Partners and Advisers are entitled to purchase a set number of shares in the future at the market price at the date of the invitation if they meet the required business volumes over the following three years.
4,805,000 shares were granted under this scheme on 17 March 2017.
Share Awards Share Incentive Plan SIP this is an HMRC approved equity-settled scheme which is available to all employees where individuals may invest up to an annual limit of 1,800 of pre-tax salary in SJP shares, to which the Group will add a further 10%.
The vesting period is three years, however if the shares are held for five years they may be sold free of income tax or capital gains tax.
There are no other vesting conditions.
7,100 2016: 5,591 shares were granted under the SIP on 27 March 2017 2016: 24 March 2016 : Executive Deferred Bonus Schemes under plans the deferred element of the annual bonus is used to purchase shares at market value in the Company.
The shares are held in trust over the three-year vesting period and may be subject to further non-market based performance conditions.
The plans are predominantly equity-settled.
694,149 2016: 613,382 shares were granted under the deferred bonus schemes on 27 March 2017 2016: 24 March 2016 : Executive Performance Share Plan the Remuneration Committee of the Group Board may make awards of performance shares to the Executive Directors and other senior managers.
Two-thirds of shares awarded to Directors are subject to an earnings growth condition of the Group and one-third of shares awarded to Directors are subject to a comparative total shareholder return TSR condition, both measured over a three-year vesting period.
Further information regarding the vesting conditions of the earnings growth and total shareholder return dependent portions of the award is given in the Remuneration Report on page 104.
Awards made to senior managers are largely only subject to the earnings growth condition of the Group.
This is predominantly an equity-settled scheme.
961,106 2016: 857,125 shares were granted under the executive performance share plan across three grants made on 27 March 2017, 26 September 2017 and 7 November 2017 2016: two grants made on 24 March 2016 and 26 September 2016 : Restricted Share Plan upon acquisition of the Rowan Dartington Group a new scheme was launched for eligible employees.
Employees were granted shares, 50% of which vest after 18 months, and the remaining 50% vest after three years providing the individual remains in employment within the SJP Group and maintains any applicable professional qualifications.
The plan is predominantly equity-settled.
323,300 shares were granted under the restricted share plan on 29 July 2016.
Share options and awards outstanding under the various share based payment schemes set out above at 31 December 2017, amount to 16.4 million shares 2016: 11.5 million.
Of these, 10.1 million 2016: 5.4 million are under option to Partners of the St. Jamess Place Partnership, 5.0 million 2016: 4.7 million are under option to executives and senior management including 1.4 million 2016: 1.3 million under option to Directors as disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 106 to 107, 0.2 million 2016: 0.3 million are under option to employees who became employees of the Group on acquisition of the Rowan Dartington Group and 1.2 million 2016: 1.1 million are under option through the SAYE and SIP schemes.
These are exercisable on a range of future dates.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 170 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Financial Assumptions Underlying the Calculation of Fair Value The fair value expense has been based on the fair value of the instruments granted, as calculated using appropriate derivative pricing models.
The table below shows the weighted average assumptions and models used to calculate the grant date fair value of each award: Partner Performance Share Plan and Partner Share Executive Executive and Adviser Associate Incentive Deferred Performance Chartered Restricted Partner 4 4 SAYE Plan Bonus Share Plan Plan Share Plan Plan Black Black Black Monte Black Black Black Scholes Scholes Scholes Carlo Scholes Scholes Scholes Valuation model Awards in 2017 3 Fair value pence 244.6 1,056.0 1,061.0 628.1 1,061.0 219.5 Share price pence 1,041.0 1,056.0 1,061.0 1,061.0 1,080.0 Exercise price pence 844.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,083.0 1 Expected volatility % pa 29.0 N A N A 29.0 29.0 2 Expected dividends % pa 3.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Risk-free interest rate % pa 0.5 N A N A N A 0.5 Expected life years 3.5 3 3 3 3 Volatility of competitors % pa N A N A N A 17.0 to 59.0 N A Correlation with competitors % N A N A N A 20.0 N A Awards in 2016 3 Fair value pence 250.7 935.5 935.5 493.9 935.5 822.0 894.0 Share price pence 935.5 935.5 935.5 935.5 920.0 894.0 Exercise price pence 687.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 15.0 0.0 1 Expected volatility % pa 27.0 N A N A 27.0 29.0 N A 2 Expected dividends % pa 3.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.2 N A Risk-free interest rate % pa 0.6 N A N A N A 0.1 N A Expected life years 3.5 3 3 3 3 3 Volatility of competitors % pa N A N A N A 17.0 to 44.0 N A N A Correlation with competitors % N A N A N A 20.0 N A N A 1 Expected volatility is based on an analysis of the Companys historic share price volatility over a period which is commensurate with the expected term of the options or the awards.
2 For schemes where dividends are payable on the shares during the vesting period, the dividend yield assumption in the Black-Scholes option pricing model is set at zero.
3 The awards made under the executive performance share plan are dependent upon earnings growth in the Company two-thirds of the award and a total shareholder return of a comparator group of companies one-third of the award.
This results in having two fair values for each of the awards made in the table above, the first being in relation to the comparator total shareholder return, which is a market based performance condition as so valued using a Monte-Carlo simulation, and the second relating to the Companys earnings growth, which is a non-market based performance condition and so valued using the Black-Scholes model.
4 The fair value of the grants made under the Partner Performance Share plan, the Partner and Adviser Chartered plan and the Associate Partner plan have been determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
This is the most appropriate valuation method because the value of the services that the Partners and Advisers are providing, for which they are being remunerated via the plan, cannot be readily separated from the overall value of the services provided by the Partners and Advisers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 171 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 19.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Share Option Schemes Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2016 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted options average options average exercise exercise price price SAYE Outstanding at start of year 1,030,703 7.28 1,162,588 6.15 Granted 415,590 8.33 460,065 7.48 Forfeited 86,990 7.35 272,877 7.19 Exercised 210,763 6.77 319,073 3.53 Outstanding at end of year 1,148,540 7.73 1,030,703 7.28 Exercisable at end of year 451 6.77 786 4.04 Partner Share Options Outstanding at start of year 19,100 4.55 1,146,226 3.35 Granted Forfeited Exercised 19,100 4.55 1,127,126 3.33 Outstanding at end of year 19,100 4.55 Exercisable at end of year 19,100 4.55 Partner Performance Share Plan Outstanding at start of year 3,380,289 0.15 15,000 0.15 Granted 3,385,801 0.15 Forfeited 5,512 0.15 Exercised 15,000 0.15 Outstanding at end of year 3,380,289 0.15 3,380,289 0.15 Exercisable at end of year Partner and Adviser Chartered Plan Outstanding at start of year 1,986,648 0.15 Granted 1,988,648 0.15 Forfeited 39,648 0.15 2,000 0.15 Exercised Outstanding at end of year 1,947,000 0.15 1,986,648 0.15 Exercisable at end of year Associate Partner Plan Outstanding at start of year Granted 4,805,000 10.83 Forfeited 80,000 10.83 Exercised Outstanding at end of year 4,725,000 10.83 Exercisable at end of year The average share price during the year was 1,142.0 pence 2016: 914.6 pence.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 172 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information The SAYE plan options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had exercise prices of 676 pence 451 options, 792 pence 186,522 options, 669 pence 162,658 options, 748 pence 401,629 options, 833 pence 397,280 options and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.37years.
The options outstanding under the Partner Performance Share Plan and the Partner & Adviser Chartered Plan at 31 December 2017 had an exercise price of 15 pence and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.6 years.
The options outstanding under the Associate Partner Plan at 31 December 2017 had an exercise price of 1,083 pence and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.2 years.
S hare Awards All shares awards under the below schemes have exercise prices of nil.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Number of Number of options options Share Incentive Plan Outstanding at start of year 27,256 24,892 Granted 7,100 5,591 Forfeited 871 825 Exercised 3,202 2,402 Outstanding at end of year 30,283 27,256 Exercisable at end of year 7,125 13,134 Executive Deferred Bonus Outstanding at start of year 1,833,436 1,658,301 Granted 694,149 613,382 Forfeited 4,634 12,789 Exercised 488,150 425,458 Outstanding at end of year 2,034,801 1,833,436 Exercisable at end of year Executive Performance Share Plan Outstanding at start of year 2,953,269 3,187,940 Granted 961,106 857,125 Forfeited 24,772 98,535 Exercised 915,797 993,261 Outstanding at end of year 2,973,806 2,953,269 Exercisable at end of year 404,620 514,297 Restricted Share Plan Outstanding at start of year 321,860 Granted 323,300 Forfeited 24,768 1,440 Exercised 138,176 Outstanding at end of year 158,916 321,860 Exercisable at end of year Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 173 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 19.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Early Exercise Assumptions An allowance has been made for the impact of early exercise once options have vested in the SAYE plan where all option holders are assumed to exercise half-way through the six-month exercise window.
Allowance for Performance Conditions The executive performance share plan includes a market based performance condition based on the Companys total shareholder return relative to an index of comparator companies.
The impact of this performance condition has been modelled using Monte Carlo simulation techniques, which involve running many thousands of simulations of future share price movements for both the Company and the comparator index.
For the purpose of these simulations it is assumed that the share price of the Company and the comparator index are 20% 2016: 20% correlated and that the comparator index has volatilities ranging between 17% p. a. to 59%p.
The performance condition is based on the Companys performance relative to the comparator index over a three-year period commencing on 1 January each year.
The fair value calculations for the awards that were made in 2017 therefore include an allowance for the actual performance of the Companys share price relative to the index over the period between 1 January 2017 and the various award dates.
Charge to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income The table below sets out the charge to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of the share-based payment awards: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Equity-settled share-based payment expense 30.5 22.7 Cash-settled share-based payment expense 2.2 1.2 Total share-based payment expense 32.7 23.9 Liability Recognised in the Statement of Financial Position The liabilities recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of the cash settled share-based payment awards, and national insurance obligations arising from share-based payment awards, are as follows.
These liabilities are included within other payables on the face of the statement of financial position.
None of the liability in respect of cash settled share-based payment awards at 31 December 2017 or 31 December 2016 is in respect of vested cash settled share-based payments: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million Liability for cash-settled share-based payments 1.6 3.1 St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 174 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 20.
INTERESTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITIES Unconsolidated Structured Entities The Group operates investment vehicles, such as unit trusts.
Clients are able to invest in these directly, but also indirectly through products offered by SJPUK and SJPI.
As a result, the Groups insurance companies can be significant investors in the unit trusts.
Note 2 sets out the judgements inherent in determining when the Group controls, and therefore consolidates, the relevant investment vehicles.
The majority of the risk from a change in the value of the Groups investment in unconsolidated unit trusts is matched by a change in unit holder liabilities.
The maximum exposure to loss, prior to considering unit holder liabilities, is equal to the carrying value of the investment.
This is recognised within investments in Collective Investment Schemes.
The following unit trusts are not consolidated within the Group financial statements: however, the Group does act as the fund manager of these unit trusts.
Net asset value as at % of ownership interest 31 December Nature of Name of entity 2017 2016 relationship Measurement method 2017 2016 Million Million St. Jamess Place Property Unit Trust 0.00 0.00 Manager of N A 1,205.7 1,005.0 unit trust St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit Trust 10.65 10.72 Manager of Fair value through 1,835.3 1,852.5 unit trust profit or loss 3,041.0 2,857.5 As at 31 December 2017 the value of the Groups interests in the individual unconsolidated unit trusts were nil 2016: nil in St. Jamess Place Property Unit Trust and 195.5 million 2016: 198.6 million in St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit Trust.
Associates The following unit trust, registered in England and Wales, is not consolidated within the Group financial statements: however it does meet the criteria of an associate.
Net asset value as at % of ownership interest 31 December Nature of Name of entity 2017 2016 relationship Measurement method 2017 2016 Million Million St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit Trust 10.65 10.72 Manager of Fair value through 1,835.3 1,852.5 unit trust profit or loss 1,835.3 1,852.5 21.
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Principal Subsidiaries: 1 Investment Holding Companies Cirenco Limited formerly known as St. Jamess Place Investment plc St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group Limited 1 formerly known as St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group plc 1 St. Jamess Place DFM Holdings Limited Life Assurance St. Jamess Place UK plc 2 St. Jamess Place International plc incorporated in Ireland Unit Trust Management St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited Unit Trust Administration and ISA Management St. Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited Distribution St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc 3 Management Services St. Jamess Place Management Services Limited Treasury Company St. Jamess Place Partnership Services Limited IFA Acquisitions St. Jamess Place Acquisition Services Limited Asia Distribution St. Jamess Place International Distribution Limited Discretionary Fund Management Rowan Dartington & Co Limited 1 Directly held by St. Jamess Place plc.
2 The Company also operates a branch in Singapore.
3 The Company also operates a branch in the Republic of Ireland.
The Company owns either directly or indirectly 100% of the voting ordinary equity share capital of the above-named subsidiaries, as such they have been appropriately consolidated.
Ongoing solvency requirements within the life assurance, unit trust and financial services companies of the Group restrict their ability to distribute all their distributable reserves.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 175 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 21.
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS CONTINUED Included below is a full list of the entities within the St. Jamess Place plc Group at 31 December 2017: Company Country of Audit Entity number Registered office incorporation Principal activity exemption Australian Expatriate Services Limited 01954254 1st Floor, Henley Building, 5 Queen's Hong Kong Overseas Distribution No Road Central, Hong Kong BFS Financial Services Limited 04609753 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Cabot Portfolio Nominees Limited 03636010 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes Chapman Associates Limited 03047530 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Chapman Hunter Group Limited 06034452 England and Wales Holding Company Yes Cirenco Limited formerly known as 01773177 England and Wales Holding Company Yes St. Jamess Place Investments plc Colston Portfolio Nominees Limited 02763967 England and Wales Nominee Company N A Dartington Portfolio Nominees 01489542 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes Limited G. M. B.
Financial Services Limited 04074782 England and Wales Non-trading Yes Hale Financial Solutions Limited 04373946 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Lansdown Place Group Holdings 06390547 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, Bristol, England and Wales Holding Company Yes Limited England, BS8 2AL, United Kingdom Lansdown Place Wealth Management 05458948 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, Bristol, England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Limited England, BS8 2AL, United Kingdom Linden House Financial Services 02990295 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes Limited Linden House Group Limited 08464570 England and Wales Holding Company Yes LP Auto Enrolment Solutions Limited 08257531 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, Bristol, England and Wales Pension AutoYes England, BS8 2AL, United Kingdom enrolment LP Financial Management Limited 02195886 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, Bristol, England and Wales Financial Advice Yes England, BS8 2AL, United Kingdom LP Holdco Limited 08323278 2 Oakfield Road, Clifton, Bristol, England and Wales Holding Company No England, BS8 2AL, United Kingdom M. H. S. Holdings Limited 0559995 England and Wales Non-trading Yes PFPTime Limited 04047197 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes RD Portfolio Nominees Limited 02752124 England and Wales Nominee Company N A Rowan Dartington & Co. Limited 02752304 England and Wales Stockbroker and No Investment Manager Rowan Dartington Holdings Limited 07470226 England and Wales Holding Company Yes Rowan Dartington Trustees Limited 05224173 England and Wales Nominee Company N A SJP AESOP Trustees Limited 04089795 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes SJP Interim Services Limited 10735786 England and Wales Non-trading Yes SJPC Corporate Investments Limited 01476292 England and Wales Holding Company Yes Stafford House Investments Limited 03866935 England and Wales Financial Advice Yes St. James's Place Hong Kong 0275275 1st Floor, Henley Building, 5 Queen's Hong Kong Overseas Distribution No Limited Road Central, Hong Kong St. James's Place PCP Limited 02706684 England and Wales Transacts and Yes Services SJP Income Streams St. James's Place Properties Limited 06890166 England and Wales Non-trading Yes St. James's Place Shanghai Limited 913100005 Unit 2006-2007, Tower 1 North, China Overseas Distribution No 66573326L 1515 West Nanjing Road, Jing'an, Shanghai, China St. James's Place Singapore Private 200406398R 1 Raffles Place, #15-61 One Raffles Singapore Financial Advice No Limited Place, Singapore 048616, Singapore St. James's Place Acquisition 07730835 England and Wales IFA Acquisitions Yes Services Limited St. James's Place Client Solutions 05487108 England and Wales Policy Administration Yes Limited St. James's Place Corporate 09131866 England and Wales Corporate Secretary Yes Secretary Limited St. James's Place DFM Holdings 09687687 England and Wales Non-trading Yes Limited St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 176 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Company Country of Audit Entity number Registered office incorporation Principal activity exemption St. Jamess Place EIS Limited 10110255 England and Wales Non-trading Yes St. James's Place International Hong 2207694 Unit 201, 2nd Floor Henley Building, 5 Hong Kong Life Assurance No Kong Limited Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong St. James's Place International 02727326 England and Wales Holding Company No Assurance Group Limited St. James's Place International 08798683 England and Wales Holding Company Yes Distribution Limited St. James's Place International plc 185345 Fleming Court, Flemings Place, Ireland Life Assurance No Dublin 4, Ireland St. James's Place Investment 08764231 England and Wales Unit Trust No Administration Limited Administration and ISA Manager St. James's Place Management 2661044 England and Wales Management No Services Limited Services St. Jamess Place Nominees Limited 08764214 England and Wales Nominee Company Yes St. James's Place Partnership 08201211 England and Wales Treasury Company No Services Limited St. James's Place UK plc 02628062 England and Wales Life Assurance No St. James's Place Unit Trust Group 0947644 England and Wales Unit Trust No Limited Management St. James's Place Wealth 06604824 England and Wales Securities and No Management PCIS Limited Futures Firm St. James's Place Wealth 1511517 1st Floor, Henley Building, 5 Queen's Hong Kong Overseas Distribution No Management Shanghai Limited Road Central, Hong Kong St. James's Place Wealth 02627518 England and Wales Holding Company No Management Group Limited formerly known as St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group plc St. James's Place Wealth 201323453N 1 Raffles Place, #15-61 One Raffles Singapore Holding Company No Management International Pte.
Ltd Place, Singapore 048616, Singapore St. James's Place Wealth 04113955 England and Wales UK Distribution No Management plc Technical Connection Limited 03178474 England and Wales Tax and Advisory Yes Services Indicates that the Registered Office is St. Jamess Place House, 1 Tetbury Road, Cirencester, Gloucestershire GL7 1FP M. S. Estates and Financial Services Limited was acquired by the Group on 18 January 2018.
Colston Portfolio Nominees Limited, RD Portfolio Nominees Limited and Rowan Dartington Trustees Limited were dissolved on 30 January 2018.
Applications for the voluntary strike-off of Chapman Associates Limited, G. M. B.
Financial Services Limited and St. Jamess Place Properties Limited had been made but the Companies were not dissolved at the date the financial statements were approved.
Where indicated above, the subsidiaries of St. Jamess Place plc have taken advantage of the exemption from statutory audit granted by section 479A of the Companies Act 2006.
In accordance with section 479C, St. Jamess Place plc has therefore guaranteed all the outstanding liabilities as at 31 December 2017.
All Group companies have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
Unless otherwise stated, the tax residency of each subsidiary is the same as the country of incorporation.
100% of the equity share capital is held for the above subsidiaries with the exception of LP Holdco Limited 08323278, where 43.14% of equity share capital is held comprising 100% of the nominal value of the Class A ordinary shares, which confer 52.83% of voting rights along with the 75.62% holding of the nominal value of the Class C ordinary shares, which carry voting rights but are not defined as equity, and Lansdown Place Group Holdings Limited 06390547, where 92.40% of the equity share capital is held by LP Holdco Limited comprising 95.29% of the nominal value of the Class A ordinary shares, 100.00% of the nominal value of the Class B and D ordinary shares, and 70.11% of the nominal value of the Class C shares.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 177 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 21.
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS CONTINUED In addition, the Group financial statements consolidate the following unit trusts, all of which are registered in England and Wales.
The registered address of the unit trust manager, St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited, is St. Jamess Place House, 1 Tetbury Road, Cirencester, Gloucestershire GL7 1FP: 1 St. Jamess Place Adventurous Growth Unit Trust 1 St. Jamess Place Adventurous International Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Allshare Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Alternative Assets Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Asia Pacific Unit Trust 1 St. Jamess Place Balanced Growth Unit Trust 1 St. Jamess Place Balanced International Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Balanced Managed Unit Trust 1 St. Jamess Place Conservative Growth Unit Trust 1 St. Jamess Place Conservative International Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Continental European Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Corporate Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Diversified Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Emerging Markets Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Equity Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Ethical Unit Trust 1 St. Jamess Place Equity A Unit Trust 1 St. Jamess Place Equity B Unit Trust 1 St. Jamess Place Equity C Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Gilts Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Emerging Markets Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Equity Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Equity Unit Trust 1 St. Jamess Place Global Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Smaller Companies Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Greater European Progressive Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Index Linked Gilts Unit Trust St. Jamess Place International Corporate Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place International Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Investment Grade Corporate Bond Unit Trust 1 St. Jamess Place Japan Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Managed Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Money Market Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Multi Asset Unit Trust St. Jamess Place North American Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Strategic Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Strategic Managed Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK & General Progressive Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK & International Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Absolute Return Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Worldwide Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Worldwide Opportunities Unit Trust 1 Denotes unit trusts which were launched during 2017.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 178 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 22.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions with St. Jamess Place Unit Trusts In respect of the non-consolidated St. Jamess Place managed unit trusts that are held as investments in the St. Jamess Place life and pension funds, there was income recognised of 10.9 million 2016: 0.3million charge and the total value of transactions with those non-consolidated unit trusts was 38.0 million 2016: 53.0 million.
Net management fees receivable from these unit trusts amounted to 15.4million 2016: 17.0 million.
The value of the investment into the non-consolidated unit trusts at 31 December 2017 was 195.5 million 2016: 198.6 million.
These transactions are all with the Groups associate as set out in Note 20.
Transactions with Key Management Personnel Key management personnel have been defined as the Board of Directors and members of the Executive Board.
The remuneration paid to the Board of Directors of St. Jamess Place plc is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 100 to 110, in addition to the disclosurebelow.
The Remuneration Report also sets out transactions with the Directors under the Groups share-based payment schemes, together with details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company.
Compensation of key management personnel is as follows: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Million Million 1 Short-term employee benefits 7.4 5.4 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.4 2 Share-based payment 6.6 6.3 Total 14.5 12.1 1 1.9 million of bonus costs have been reclassified from other long-term benefits to short-term benefits in the 2016 comparative.
2 The 2016 share-based payment amount has been represented to show the share-based payment charge recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income during 2016, rather than the amount of bonus deferred into shares.
The total value of Group funds under management held by related parties of the Group as at 31December 2017 was 36.1 million 2016: 26.5 million.
The total value of St. Jamess Place plc dividends paid to related parties of the Group during the year was 1.4 million 2016: 1.4 million.
Commission, advice fees and remuneration of 3.9 million 2016: 2.9 million was paid, under normal commercial terms, to St. Jamess Place Advisers and employees who were related parties by virtue of being connected persons with key management personnel.
The outstanding amount payable at 31 December 2017 was 0.5 million 2016: 0.3 million.
Outstanding at the year-end were Partner loans of 3.3 million 2016: 1.6 million due from St. Jamess Place Advisers who were related parties by virtue of being connected persons with key management personnel.
The Group either advanced, or guaranteed, these loans.
During the year 3.7 million 2016: 0.7 million was advanced and 2.1 million 2016: 0.3 million was repaid by Advisers who were related parties.
Business loans to Partners are interest bearing linked to Bank of England base rate plus a margin, repayable on demand and secured against the future renewal income streams of that Adviser.
Interest of 0.1 million was received during 2017 2016: 0.1 million.
At the start of the year, related parties of key management personnel held 28,273 2016: nil shares and options under various St. Jamess Place plc share option schemes.
During the year 10,000 2016: 28,273 shares and options were granted, 1,000 2016: nil options lapsed and nil 2016: nil options were exercised.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 179
