Financial Statements Section 3 Assets, Liabilities and Investments: Financial Assets, Cash and Borrowings, Lease Liabilities and Working Capital This section includes details of the Group's cash resources and the loans and borrowings drawn in the year, together with details of the finance lease liability recognised on commencement of Kraken production.
Key accounting issues in this section include the impact on Cairn's financial assets of the merger of Cairn India Limited with Vedanta Limited and the provision against dividends receivable.
Significant accounting judgements in this section: Available-for-sale financial assets : X F X for-sale financial asset and the closing book value of the asset represents the quoted market price of the Groups residual holding.
Although Cairn is currently not able to sell its stake, there is no restriction in the wider market where Vedanta Limited shares trade freely at this price.
Lease classification of Kraken and Catcher FPSO lease agreements Cairn is party to lease agreements on its North Sea producing assets for the charter of an FPSO on each licence.
In determining whether each lease should be classified as either a finance lease or an operating lease, Cairn has considered the substance of both transactions individually, including the term of each lease in relation to the expected life of the asset and whether options to purchase the FPSO at the end of the lease term are reasonably certain to be exercised.
Cairn concluded that the lease agreement for the Kraken FPSO, where it is considered reasonably certain that the FPSO will be purchased by the joint operation toward the end of the initial term, should be classified as a finance lease.
By contrast, the Catcher FPSO, with a shorter initial lease term and with no current expectation that the joint operation shall purchase the FPSO at the end of that lease term, was determined to be an operating lease, with substantially all risks and rewards of ownership remaining with the lessor.
F8 X I 8{k 8 Provision against dividends receivable from Cairn India Limited now Vedanta Limited % F F % F X X : e Accounting for the FlowStream transaction 8 U agreement, Cairn delivers oil to FlowStream at the point of production Cairn has agreed to market FlowStreams oil on their behalf, with FlowStreams percentage share of the production from the field agreed at the outset.
The price FlowStream receive for the oil is based on market prices.
The transaction does not give rise to a contractual obligation for Cairn to deliver cash or another financial asset to FlowStream: FlowStreams return is entirely dependent on future production from Kraken.
As such, Cairn has concluded that this transaction does not give rise to a financial liability: rather, the agreement is considered as a future sale of oil and the proceeds treated as deferred revenue.
Key estimates and assumptions in this section: Measurement of Kraken FPSO finance lease U 8{k I 8{k at contracted performance levels in the original lease term, with no adjustment for a contingent Interim Production Period agreement: F Inclusive of refunds due after commencement of the lease resulting from delays in delivering the FPSO: and Calculated using an interest rate based on the Groups incremental borrowing rate at commencement rather than a rate determined in the lease agreement which could not be readily determined.
{ to nil for the maximum duration of the interim production period: this was agreed between the joint operators and the lessor to allow operational issues with the FPSO to be rectified.
The revised liability is computed using an interest rate calculated at the date of the modification.
{X e  e 154 8 Accounting policy The Groups available-for-sale financial assets represent listed equity shares and redeemable preference shares which are held at fair value the quoted market price.
Movements in the fair value during the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income.
The cumulative gains or losses that arise on subsequent disposal of the available-for-sale assets are recycled through the income statement.
At each reporting date, the fair value of the financial assets is compared to the value at the date of its initial recognition for signs of a prolonged or significant deficit in the valuation, which would indicate impairment.
Where impairment is identified, cumulative losses recognised in other comprehensive income are recycled to the income statement.
In the event of a subsequent recovery in the valuation of the assets, there is no reversal of impairment: any such post-impairment gains are recognised as a surplus through other comprehensive income.
Any further impairment losses will be recognised through the income statement.
On derecognition of a financial asset, arising either through cash disposal or in exchange for an alternate asset, cumulative gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income are recycled to the income statement and included with the gain or loss on disposal with the closing book of the financial asset immediately prior to derecognition and the fair value of the consideration received.
 Listed equity preference shares Fc Total US$m US$m US$m Fair Value e I Surplus on valuation e I Surplus on valuation of Cairn India Limited shares prior to merger Disposal of shares in Cairn India Limited on merger Addition of shares in Vedanta Limited on merger Surplus on valuation of Vedanta Limited shares after merger e % F e F X X : X { : F X Movements in the fair value during the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income.
On F X comprehensive income, to the income statement, generating a net gain on disposal as summarised below: US$m Loss on disposal of shares in Cairn India Limited on merger with Vedanta Limited Cumulative surplus on valuation of shares in Cairn India Limited recycled from equity Net gain on derecognition of financial assets F X % X F maturity or coupon rate.
These listed equity securities present the Group with an opportunity for return through dividend income and trading gains X k X X As timing of the arbitration award may extend beyond one year from the balance sheet date, all available-for-sale financial assets are classified as non-current.
The Group is exposed to equity price risks arising from the listed equity investments it holds in Vedanta Limited.
155 Financial Statements Section 3 Assets, Liabilities and Investments: Financial Assets, Cash and Borrowings, Lease Liabilities and Working Capital continued 8 continued Sensitivity analysis e X Fc F X I e X price over the period from recognition to the year end is shown below.
The graph below does not include the Vedanta Limited redeemable preference shares.
6,000 5,500 5,000 4,500 4,000 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 CIL CIL Vedanta shares: Vedanta shares: 1 Jan 2016: 31 Dec 2016: 27 April 2017: 31 Dec 2017: $2.09 $3.56 $3.65 $5.17 The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at the reporting date, assuming all other variables are held constant.
Sensitivities have been run based on various scenarios including the highest and lowest share prices for Vedanta Limited measured Fc These are considered to be reasonably possible changes for the purposes of sensitivity analysis.
Effect on Effect on profit for year equity e % US$m US$m F e Fc % Fc % Fc % e Fc e be recycled to the income statement from other comprehensive income had the share price been at this level at the balance sheet date.
US$m Cash at bank Short-term bank deposits Money market funds Tri-party repurchase transactions Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents earn interest at floating rates.
Short-term investments are made for varying periods ranging from instant access to unlimited, but generally not more than three months depending on the cash requirements of the Group.
Cairn invests surplus funds into high-quality liquid investments, including money market funds, short-term bank deposits and tri-party repurchase transactions repos.
Cairn limits the placing of such funds and other investments to banks or financial institutions that have ratings of Aor above from at least two of Moodys, Standard & Poors or Fitch, unless a sovereign guarantee is available from an AAA rated government.
The counterparty c F eee securities with a minimum rating of BBBwhich is managed by Euroclear.
No adjustment is made to the counterparty credit rating to reflect the collateral held when assessing investment options.
The Groups Treasury function manages the credit risk associated with such investments as {X e  e 156 X Reconciliation of opening and closing liability to cash flow movements: US$m Opening liability Loan advanced recognised in cash flow statement Foreign exchange differences Closing liability k a : c c e international banks, BNP Paribas and Commbank Europe Limited.
The facility can be drawn to fund the part of exploration costs, incurred and paid in c c { e F facility finance costs.
e % ckU ckU Interest on outstanding debt is charged at the appropriate NIBOR plus an applicable margin.
Debt is repayable by the final maturity date, which is the % k I {X e Prior to completion of specified criteria on the Catcher and Kraken developments, the facility can be drawn to fund development costs on those k B % : Interest on outstanding debt will be charged at the appropriate LIBOR for the currency drawn plus an applicable margin.
The facility is subject to bi-annual redeterminations, has a market standard suite of covenants and is cross-guaranteed by all Group companies party to the facility.
% I I % 8XX Accounting policy Finance lease liabilities are measured at inception and recorded on commencement of the asset being brought in to use.
Measurement is based on the lower of fair value of the asset or the net present value of minimum lease commitments.
Lease payments made in excess of the minimum commitment are charged direct to the income statement as variable lease costs.
Lease payments are allocated between capital and interest based on the rate implicit in the lease agreement.
Where this is not practical to determine, the Groups incremental borrowing rate is used.
Where there are changes subsequent to initial recognition, adjustments are made to both the lease liability and the capitalised asset.
The interest rate used where the rate implicit in the lease is not determinable is updated at the date of the remeasurement.
157 Financial Statements Section 3 Assets, Liabilities and Investments: Financial Assets, Cash and Borrowings, Lease Liabilities and Working Capital continued 8XX continued Present value of minimum Minimum lease payments lease payments % % % % US$m US$m Not later than one year After one year but no more than five years After five years Total future minimum rentals payable Less future finance charges Present value of minimum lease payments US$m Reconciliation of opening and closing liability to cash flow movements: Opening liability Leases commenced and revisions to leases in the year: Finance lease recognised on commencement Revision to finance lease Finance lease reimbursements in cash flow statement: Lease payments net of reimbursements received Other movements: Reimbursement due transferred to other receivables 8 Sub-total Closing liability k % : e U { X e the lease of an FPSO vessel for the Kraken field.
The lease agreement became effective on commencement.
This agreement is considered to be I Subsequent to initial recognition, the lease agreement was amended to incorporate an interim production period while the Kraken FPSO achieves the targeted throughput of oil.
During this interim period, minimum lease payments are reduced to nil, with all lease payments dependent upon the availability and performance of the FPSO.
e expects to recover this amount and the receivable is recognised within other receivables.
j US$m Trade and other receivables e Prepayments Dividends receivable Joint operation receivables { I {X e  e 158 j continued F X % F e F X X Post declaration of the April dividend, the Indian Income Tax Department has seized the funds due to Cairn from Vedanta Limited in part-settlement against during the year.
Joint operation receivables include Cairns working interest share of the receivables relating to joint operations and amounts recoverable from partners in joint operations.
In determining the recoverability of other receivables the Group carries out a risk analysis based on the type and age of the outstanding receivable.
Cash flow impact of movements in Trade and Other Receivables The movement in trade and other receivables and accrued income predominately relates to cash flows arising on operating activities.
The movement in prepayments is mainly attributed to investing activities.
There are no movements in prepayments relating to financing activities during the year.
Movements in joint operation receivables are recorded through investing activities as either exploration appraisal or development producing asset cash flows as appropriate.
The reduction in dividends receivable is a non-cash movement and has no impact on the cash flow statement.
jz US$m Trade payables Other taxation and social security Accruals and other payables Financial liability Joint operation payables Joint operation payables include Cairns share of the trade and other payables of joint operations in which the Group participates.
Where Cairn is operator of the joint operation, joint operation payables also include amounts that Cairn will settle to third parties on behalf of joint operation partners.
The amount to be recovered from partners for their share of such liabilities are included within joint operation receivables.
Cash flow impact of movements in Trade and Other Payables Trade and joint operation payables movement primarily relates to investing activities in the cash flow statement.
The movement in accruals and other payables and financial liability predominately relates to cash flows arising on financing activities.
Other taxation and social security cost movements are recorded though operating cash flows.
% Accounting policy Deferred revenue, arising from a streaming agreement, is treated as cash received in advance of future oil sales.
Revenue is recorded at the fair value of the consideration received and is amortised to the income statement on a unit-of-production basis, based on expected future volumes to which the stream provider is entitled.
FlowStream deferred revenue Note US$m Opening deferred revenue Fair value of proceeds received Released during the year Foreign exchange differences Closing deferred revenue Amounts expected to be released within one year Amounts expected to be released after one year 159 Financial Statements Section 3 Assets, Liabilities and Investments: Financial Assets, Cash and Borrowings, Lease Liabilities and Working Capital continued % continued % 8 I 8 U 8 U 8 8 8F Set out below is the comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
Financial assets Carrying amount Fair value US$m US$m Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents Joint operation receivables Dividend receivable Trade and other receivables Accrued underlift Available-for-sale financial assets Listed equity shares All of the above loans and receivables are current and held at amortised cost.
There are no material impairments of loans and receivables.
All the Groups financial assets are expected to mature within one year.
Financial liabilities Carrying amount and fair value US$m Fair value through profit and loss Financial liability Amortised cost Trade payables Joint operation payables Accruals and other payables Loans and borrowings Finance lease liability The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, other than available-for-sale financial assets, has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Maturity analysis The expected financial maturity of the Groups financial liabilities is as follows: US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value through profit and loss Financial liability Amortised cost Trade payables Joint operation payables Accruals and other payables Loans and borrowings Finance lease liability e % {X e  e 160 8F continued Fair value The Group holds listed equity shares and redeemable preference shares as a non-current available-for-sale financial assets.
The Group determines and discloses the fair value of these by reference to the quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for those shares at the measurement date.
e % : US$m e X Available-for-sale financial assets Equity shares listed Redeemable preference shares listed X X Fair value through profit and loss Financial liabilities 8 `jz The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are commodity price risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk.
The Board of Cairn Energy PLC, through the Treasury Sub-Committee, reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and these are summarised : The Groups treasury function and Executive Team as appropriate are responsible for managing these risks, in accordance with the policies set by the Board.
Management of these risks is carried out by monitoring of cash flows, investment and funding requirements using a variety of techniques.
These potential exposures are managed whilst ensuring that the Company and the Group have adequate liquidity at all times in order to meet their immediate cash requirements.
There are no significant concentrations of risks unless otherwise stated.
The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivatives, for speculative purposes.
The primary financial assets and liabilities comprise cash, short and medium-term deposits, notice accounts, tri-party purchase transactions repos, certificates of deposit, money market liquidity funds, listed equity shares, intra-group loans and other receivables and financial liabilities held at amortised cost.
The Groups strategy has been to finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
Other alternatives such as equity issues and other forms of non-investment-grade debt finance are reviewed by the Board, when appropriate.
Commodity price risk Commodity price risk arises principally from the Groups North Sea production, which could adversely affect revenue and debt availability due to changes in commodity prices.
The Group measures commodity price risk through an analysis of the potential impact of changing commodity prices.
Based on this analysis and considering materiality and the potential business impact, the Group may choose to hedge.
U c : % Transacted derivatives are designated, where possible, in cash flow hedge relationships to minimise accounting income statement volatility.
The Group is required to assess the likely effectiveness of any proposed cash flow hedging relationship and demonstrate that the hedging relationship is expected to be highly effective prior to entering into a hedging instrument and at subsequent reporting dates.
Liquidity risk The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk using both short and long-term cash flow projections, supplemented by debt and equity financing plans and active portfolio management.
Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in asset production profiles and cost schedules.
The Groups forecasts show that the Group will be able to operate within e  e % : : agreement.
The Group has complied with the liquidity requirements of this test at all times during the year.
The Group runs various sensitivities 8 The Group currently has surplus cash that is invested in a combination of money market liquidity funds, repos, notice accounts and term deposits U : expenditure requirements.
161 Financial Statements Section 3 Assets, Liabilities and Investments: Financial Assets, Cash and Borrowings, Lease Liabilities and Working Capital continued 8 `jz continued Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, investments with banks and financial institutions, trade receivables and joint operations.
Customers and joint operation partners are subject to a risk assessment using publicly available information and credit reference agencies, with follow-up due diligence and monitoring if required.
Investment credit risk for investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the Group Treasury function in accordance with the Board-approved policies of Cairn Energy PLC.
These policies limit counterparty exposure, maturity, collateral and take account of published ratings, market measures and other market information.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate the risk of financial loss through counterparty failure.
Where investments are made in repos, collateral is fixed income debt securities with a minimum rating of BBBwhich is managed by Euroclear.
It is Cairns policy to invest with banks or other financial institutions that firstly offer the greatest degree of security in the view of the Group and, secondly the most competitive interest rates.
Repayment of principal is the overriding priority and this is achieved by diversification and shorter maturities to provide flexibility.
The Board continually re-assesses the Groups policy and updates as required.
e : e % : investments reflects the Groups reduced cash balance.
The maturity of these investments ranged from instant access to one month.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency risk Cairn manages exposures that arise from non-functional currency receipts and payments by matching receipts and payments in the same currency and actively managing the residual net position.
The Group also aims where possible to hold surplus cash, debt and working capital balances in the functional currency of the subsidiary, thereby matching the reporting currency and functional currency of most companies in the Group.
This minimises the impact of foreign exchange movements on the Groups balance sheet.
Where residual net exposures do exist and they are considered significant, the Company and Group may from time to time opt to use derivative financial instruments to minimise exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates.
: { ckU on the Groups monetary assets and liabilities.
These are considered to be reasonably possible changes for the purpose of sensitivity analysis.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
Effect on loss Effect on Effect on before tax Effect on equity loss before tax equity US$m US$m c U c U {X e  e 162
