Section 4 Results for the Year This section includes the results and performance of the Group, including details of revenue generated during the year through oil sales and royalty income and related cost of sales including operating lease commitments on the Catcher FPSO.
This section also includes details of employee benefits paid in the year and finance income and costs.
Operating segments Cairn's strategy is to create, add and realise value from a balanced portfolio within a self-funding business model.
Each business unit is headed by a regional director a regional director may be responsible for more than one business unit and the Board monitors the results of each segment separately for the purposes of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
U c c c : U c F the year exploration licences, including Mexico, Ireland, Western Sahara and the Mediterranean.
The Other Cairn Energy Group segment exists to accumulate the activities and results of the holding company and other unallocated expenditure and net assets liabilities including amounts of a corporate nature not specifically attributable to any of the business units.
Non-current assets as analysed on a segmental basis consist of intangible exploration appraisal assets: property, plant & equipment development producing assets: intangible assets goodwill: and other property, plant & equipment and intangible assets.
Geographical information: non-current assets OTHER UK UK & NORWAY UK Norway INTERNATIONAL Republic of Ireland Goodwill allocated to segment Western Sahara nil Malta SENEGAL nil Mexico nil 163 Financial Statements Section 4 Results for the Year continued continued Geographical information: non-current assets continued % Other Cairn U Energy Senegal Norway International Group Total US$m Revenue Cost of sales Depletion and amortisation Gross loss profit Pre-award costs Depreciation Amortisation Other income and administrative expenses Reversal of impairment of oil and gas assets Operating loss Net gain on derecognition of financial assets Interest income Other finance income and costs Exceptional provision against finance income receivable Loss profit before taxation Tax credit Loss profit for the year Capital expenditure Total assets Total liabilities Non-current assets All transactions between the segments are carried out on an arms length basis, other than where inter-group loans are made interest-free or at interest rates below market value.
% Other Cairn U Energy Senegal Norway International Group Total Pre-award costs Depreciation Amortisation Inventory write-down Administrative expenses Impairment of oil and gas assets Operating loss Interest income Other finance income and costs Loss before taxation Tax credit Profit loss for the year Capital expenditure Total assets Total liabilities Non-current assets {X e  e 164 Accounting policies Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and revenue can be reliably measured.
 : U c in time where the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been passed to the buyer.
Revenue is measured using the Brent or estimated Brent price plus or minus the applicable discount based on the quality of the oil.
Revenue from royalties is calculated on production from fields in Mongolia based on the calculation agreed following international arbitration.
Commodity price hedging Cairn may hedge oil production for the Groups assets in line with hedging policies approved by the Cairn Energy PLC Board.
Where a hedging instrument has been formally designated as a hedge for hedge accounting, changes in the intrinsic value of the hedged item are recognised within other comprehensive income where the hedge is effective and are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged production itself affects profit or loss.
Hedge effectiveness is assessed on both a prospective and retrospective basis.
Any hedge ineffectiveness identified is immediately charged to the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of the time value of an option not designated within the hedged item shall be recognised in the income statement.
Cost of Sales Production costs include Cairn's share of costs of the joint operation in extracting oil.
Also included are marketing and transportation costs, measured on a cost per barrel basis and loss-of-production insurance costs payable over the period.
Adjustments for overlift where liftings taken by Cairn exceed the Group's working interest share, underlift where liftings taken by Cairn are less than the Group's working interest share and movements in inventory are included in cost of sales.
Oil inventory is measured at market value in accordance with established industry practice.
Variable lease charges represent lease payments made on finance leases over and above the minimum lease commitment.
Operating lease costs are charged directly to the income statement.
US$m Oil sales  Revenue from oil sales Royalty income Revenue Production and other costs Oil inventory and underlift adjustment Variable and operating lease charges Cost of sales % Gross profit Revenue % U c  a in proving the Groups title to royalty interest and the basis for calculating royalties due, and has recovered royalty income payable from k : 165 Financial Statements Section 4 Results for the Year continued continued Commodity price hedging B c e % : U combination of put and call options and collar structures effectively creating floor and ceiling prices for the Brent benchmark for the volumes x x The put option and collar structure have been designated as hedges for hedge accounting.
The call option does not qualify for hedge accounting Fe F8 e x The premium payable on the put option and collar was not designated within the hedged item.
Fair value movements on the cost of the option are recorded in the income statement in the period.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on hedges in place at the year end.
The sensitivity analysis considers only the impact on line items directly relating to hedge accounting and does not include the impact of a change in the oil price on other income statement line items, such as inventory e e considered to be reasonably possible changes for the purposes of sensitivity analysis.
: U x x Cost of Sales F U % U 8{k lease charges on the Catcher FPSO.
Operating lease commitments At the year end, Cairn had the following operating lease commitment relating to the Catcher FPSO: US$m Production costs operating lease charges Not later than one year After one year but no more than five years After five years z US$m U c International Other U c F a F 8 the Groups current licence interests and risk appetite.
% U c a F I c {X e  e 166 b US$m Administrative expenses Inventory disposal write-down Other income e : F ongoing arbitration.
Operating lease commitments Administration costs include operating lease charges for land and buildings representing the costs of Cairns head office in Edinburgh and subsidiary offices globally.
Operating lease commitments at the year end are shown below and are disclosed prior to recovery of cost through the Groups timewriting recharges.
US$m Administrative costs land and buildings Not later than one year After one year but no more than five years After five years z% a Staff costs US$m Wages and salaries Social security costs Other pension costs Share-based payments charge Staff costs are shown gross before amounts recharged to joint operations.
The share-based payments charge represents amounts in respect of equity-settled options.
The monthly average number of full-time equivalent employees, including executive directors and individuals employed by the Group working on joint operations, was: Number of employees U Norway Senegal Morocco Group 167 Financial Statements Section 4 Results for the Year continued z% continued b Share-based payments Income statement charge US$m Included within gross staff costs: SIP Share Options Approved Plan k { LTIP Employee Share Scheme Details of those awards with a significant impact on the results for the current and prior year are given below together with a summary of the remaining awards.
Share-based payment schemes and awards details The Group operates a number of share award schemes for the benefit of its employees.
"The number of share awards made by the Company during the year is given in the table below together with their weighted average fair value ""WAFV"" and weighted average grant or exercise price ""WAGP WAEP"" : WAGP WAGP WAFV WAEP Number WAFV WAEP Number of shares of shares SIP free shares SIP matching shares LTIP Employee Share Scheme The awards existing under the LTIP with the weighted average grant price ""WAGP"" are as follows: Number WAGP Number WAGP k I Granted during the year Exercised during the year Lapsed during the year k % Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards The awards existing under all share schemes other than the LTIP with the weighted average of the grant price, exercise price and notional exercise prices ""WAGP WAEP"" are as follows: Number WAGP WAEP Number WAGP WAEP k I Granted during the year Exercised during the year Lapsed during the year k % Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards {X e  e 168 z% continued b Share-based payments continued Assumptions and inputs The fair value of the Cairn Energy PLC LTIP scheme awards was calculated using a Monte Carlo model."
The primary inputs to the model are XF{ 8 XF{ %   {X a e Cairn Energy PLC share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year, subject to the normal employee dealing bans imposed by the The main inputs to the models include the number of options, share price, leaver rate, trigger points, discount rate and volatility.
Leaver rate assumptions are based on past history of employees leaving the Company prior to options vesting and are revised to equal the number of options that ultimately vest.
The risk-free rate is based on the yield on a zero coupon government bond with a term equal to the expected term on the option being valued.
Volatility was determined as the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the shares of a peer group of similar 8 %   The following assumptions and inputs apply: Lapse due to Risk-free rate withdrawals Scheme name Volatility per annum per annum SIP e { LTIP Employee Share Scheme Employee exercise trigger point assumptions 8 XF{ % Details of each Directors remuneration, pension entitlements, share options and awards pursuant to the LTIP are set out in the Directors   % Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors of the Company and of the members of the management and corporate teams who are the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate.
US$m Short-term employee benefits Post-employment benefits Share-based payments F Share-based payments shown above represent the cost to the Group of key management personnel's participation in the Company's share F8 % XF{ 169 Financial Statements Section 4 Results for the Year continued 8F US$m Bank and other interest receivable Other finance income Dividend income Exchange gain % X z 8F Dividend income relating to the Groups residual interest in Cairn India was receivable from Vedanta Limited after the merger of the two companies.
However, following the seizure by the Indian Tax Department of the income held in abeyance, the unpaid dividend receivable has been fully provided Limited, title to the shares remains with the Company.
Therefore the provision against the dividends receivable does not impact the carrying value X 8 US$m Loan interest Other finance charges Loss on mark to market financial instruments Finance lease interest Exchange loss j Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated using the following measures of profit loss : US$m Profit loss and diluted profit loss attributable to equity holders of the parent The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: Weighted average number of shares Less weighted average shares held by ESOP and SIP Trusts Basic weighted average number of shares Potential dilutive effect of shares issuable under employee share plans: LTIP awards Approved and unapproved plans Employee share awards Diluted weighted average number of shares Potentially issuable shares: LTIP awards Approved and unapproved plans Employee share awards Number of potentially issuable shares {X e  e 170
