Financial Statements Section 2 Assets and Investments: Oil and Gas Assets and Decommissioning Provisions This section focuses on the assets in the balance sheet which form the core of Cairn's business.
This section quantifies the financial impact of exploration, appraisal and development activities for the year fully described in the operational review on pages 14-17.
Included are details of the appraisal and exploration wells in Senegal, the development projects U c tests performed on the Group's assets, including goodwill.
Significant accounting judgements in this section: Impairment testing of oil and gas assets and related goodwill The Groups net assets in the Balance Sheet currently remain in excess of its market value, indicating that the assets may be impaired.
: F Groups development assets as a result of reserve upgrades following performance of development wells drilled exceeding pre-drill expectations.
8 Lease classification of Kraken and Catcher FPSOs Cairn is party to lease agreements on its North Sea producing asset for the charter of an FPSO on each licence.
Details of the key accounting Key estimates and assumptions in this section: Impairment testing of intangible exploration appraisal assets and property, plant & equipment development producing assets Where an indicator of impairment is identified on an intangible exploration appraisal asset or a development producing asset, an impairment test is conducted in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The test compares either the carrying value of the asset or the carrying value of the : : The recoverable amount of an asset represents its fair value less costs of disposal.
This is based on either a verifiable third-party arms length transaction from which a fair value can be obtained or, where there is no such transaction, the fair value less costs of disposal of an asset is calculated using a discounted post-tax cash flow model over the field life of the asset.
Cairn do not believe that the value in use of the asset would materially exceed its fair value less cost of disposal.
The key assumptions used in the Groups discounted cash flow models reflect past experience and take account of external factors.
These assumptions include: Short medium-term oil price based on a three-month average forward curve for three years from the balance sheet date: X  { { Production profiles based on Cairns internal estimates including assumptions on performance of assets: per annum: and { Impairment testing of goodwill U c U c e of disposal are based on discounted post-tax cash flow models where no recent third-party transactions exist on which a reliable market-based fair value can be established.
The key assumptions are therefore consistent with those for testing intangible exploration appraisal assets.
Where resource is prospective, fair value represents the expected net present value of the prospect, risk-weighted for future exploration success.
Given the inherent risk associated with exploration activities, valuations of prospective resource are highly subjective.
Decommissioning estimates Provisions for decommissioning are based on the latest estimates provided by operators, subject to review by Cairn and adjustment where deemed necessary.
Costs provided to date are an estimate of the cost that would be incurred to remove and decommission facilities that existed at the {X e  e 146 F w Accounting policy Cairn follows a successful-efforts based accounting policy for oil and gas assets.
Costs incurred prior to obtaining the legal rights to explore an area, pre-award costs, are expensed immediately to the income statement.
Expenditure incurred on the acquisition of a licence interest is initially capitalised on a licence-by-licence basis.
Costs are held, undepleted, within intangible exploration appraisal assets until such time as the exploration phase on the licence area is complete or commercial reserves have been discovered.
Exploration expenditure incurred in the process of determining oil and gas exploration targets is capitalised initially within intangible exploration appraisal assets and subsequently allocated to drilling activities.
Costs are recognised following a cost accumulation model where any contingent future costs on recognition of an asset are recognised only when incurred.
This includes where Cairn has entered into a farm-in agreement to either acquire or part-dispose of an exploration interest.
A farm-in is an agreement in which a party agrees to acquire from one or more of the existing licencees, an interest in an exploration licence, for a consideration which may consist of the performance of a specified work obligation on behalf of the existing licencees.
This obligation may be subject to a monetary cap.
Refund of full or partial costs incurred to date may also be included in a farm-in agreement.
Where Cairn have part-disposed of an exploration licence interest through a farm-in arrangement, a farm-down, the contingent consideration payable by the third-party on Cairns behalf is not recognised in the financial statements.
The future economic benefit which Cairn will receive as a result of the farm-down will be dependent upon future success of any exploration drilling.
Exploration appraisal drilling costs are capitalised on a well-by-well basis until the success or otherwise of the well has been established.
The success or failure of each exploration appraisal effort is judged on a well-by-well basis.
Drilling costs are written off on completion of a well unless the results indicate that hydrocarbon reserves exist and there is a reasonable prospect that these reserves are commercial and work to confirm the commercial viability of such hydrocarbons is intended to be carried out in the foreseeable future.
Where results of exploration drilling indicate the presence of hydrocarbons which are ultimately not considered commercially viable, all related costs are written off to the income statement.
Following appraisal of successful exploration wells, if commercial reserves are established and technical feasibility for extraction demonstrated and approved in a field development plan, then the related capitalised intangible exploration appraisal costs are transferred into a single field cost centre within property, plant & equipment development producing assets, after testing for impairment see below.
Proceeds from the disposal or farm-down of part or all of an exploration appraisal asset are credited initially to that interest with any excess being credited to the income statement.
Impairment Intangible exploration appraisal assets are reviewed regularly for indicators of impairment and tested for impairment where such indicators exist.
An indicator that one of the Groups assets may be impaired is most likely to be one of the following: There are no further plans to conduct exploration activities in the area: Exploration drilling in the area has failed to discover commercial reserve volumes: Changes in the oil price or other market conditions indicate that discoveries may no longer be commercial: or Development proposals for appraisal assets in the pre-development stage indicate that it is unlikely that the carrying value of the exploration appraisal asset will be recovered in full.
In such circumstances the intangible exploration appraisal asset is allocated to any property, plant & equipment development producing : e : x amount is charged immediately to the income statement.
147 Financial Statements Section 2 Assets and Investments: Oil and Gas Assets and Decommissioning Provisions continued F w continued Senegal U c International Total US$m Cost e I Foreign exchange Additions e % Foreign exchange Additions e % Impairment e I Foreign exchange Impairment charge e % Foreign exchange e % Net book value e % e % e % Senegal % c c  x 8ec c c c 8ec e e All costs incurred in Senegal to date remain capitalised.
SNE field appraisal and concept select definition are concluding for the first phase of 8ec of the FAN discovery possible as a tie-back to the planned SNE development asset, costs incurred in Senegal are deemed to form a single cashgenerating unit.
UK & Norway e c c {X 8 : in the region.
{X e  e 148 F w continued International Ireland % 8 X x F x share of drilling costs under the farm-in agreement.
The subsequent dual-prospect well, targeting the Druid and Drombeg prospects, failed to relating to this well.
8 F Xkx Xk x F 8 X x { Mexico a B e principally licence entry costs including signature bonus.
Western Sahara : a e Other a e Impairment review At the year end, Cairn reviewed its intangible exploration appraisal assets for indicators of impairment.
Indicators were identified where future exploration plans remain uncertain or where the carrying value of assets relating to discovered resource may not be fully recovered through future development and production.
F U Nova discovery to ensure the carrying amount is expected to be recovered from future development.
F U c F activities to date were not expected to be recovered through subsequent development or no further exploration activity was planned.
There are no % zz %wz Accounting policy Costs All costs incurred after the technical feasibility and commercial viability of producing hydrocarbons has been demonstrated, are capitalised within development producing assets on a field-by-field basis.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only where it either enhances the economic benefits of the development producing asset or replaces part of the existing development producing asset.
Any remaining costs associated with the part replaced are expensed.
Costs of borrowings relating to the ongoing construction of development producing assets and facilities are capitalised during the development phase of the project.
Capitalisation ceases once the asset is ready to commence production.
Net proceeds from any disposal, part-disposal or farm-down of development producing assets are credited against the appropriate portion of previously capitalised cost.
A gain or loss on disposal of a development producing asset is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the net proceeds, measured at fair value, exceed or are less than the appropriate portion of the net capitalised costs.
Impairment Development producing assets are reviewed for indicators of impairment at the balance sheet date.
Indicators of impairment for the Groups development assets include: Downward revisions of reserve estimates: Increases in cost estimates for development projects: or A decrease in the oil price or other negative changes in market conditions.
Impairment tests are carried out on each development producing asset at the balance sheet date where an indicator of impairment is identified.
The test compares the carrying value of an asset to its recoverable amount based on the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal or value in use.
Where the fair value less costs of disposal supports the carrying value of the asset, no value-in-use calculation is performed.
If it is not possible to calculate the fair value less costs of disposal of an individual asset, the fair value less costs of disposal is calculated for the : : : F : 149 Financial Statements Section 2 Assets and Investments: Oil and Gas Assets and Decommissioning Provisions continued zz %wz continued Accounting policy continued Where there has been a charge for impairment in an earlier period that charge will be reversed in a later period where there has been a change in circumstances to the extent that the recoverable amount is higher than the net book value at the time.
In reversing impairment losses, the carrying amount of the asset will be increased to the lower of its original carrying value or the carrying value that would have been determined net of depletion had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
Decommissioning At the end of the producing life of a field, costs are incurred in plugging and abandoning wells, removing subsea installations and decommissioning production facilities.
Cairn recognises the full discounted cost of decommissioning as an asset and liability when the obligation to rectify environmental damage arises.
The decommissioning asset is included within property, plant & equipment development producing assets with the cost of the related installation.
The liability is included within provisions.
Revisions to the estimated costs of decommissioning which alter the level of the provisions required are also reflected in adjustments to the decommissioning asset.
The amortisation of the asset is calculated on a unit-of-production basis based on proved and probable reserves.
The amortisation of the asset is included in the depletion charge in the income statement and the unwinding of discount of the provision is included within finance costs.
U c U c leased asset Total US$m Cost e I Foreign exchange Additions e % Foreign exchange Additions Re-measurement of leased assets e % Depletion, amortisation and impairment e I Foreign exchange e % Foreign exchange Depletion and amortisation Reversal of impairment e % Net book value e % e % e % U U I barrels were achieved during the period as performance issues connected with FPSO were addressed.
Catcher commenced production late % e U and Catcher developments respectively.
U k 8 % F 8 U 8 k additions relating to this transaction.
{X e  e 150 zz %wz continued Leased assets k U 8{k initial recognition, the lease agreement was amended to include an interim production period to allow the lessor to address operational issues with the FPSO.
During this interim production period, minimum lease commitments are reduced to nil, resulting in a reduction to the finance lease liability 8 8{k Impairment review At the year end, Cairn reviewed its development producing assets for indicators of impairment.
No impairment arose for Kraken.
The reversal of impairment results from an expected improvement in performance of the asset and has resulted in an increase in the volume of oil reserves estimated to be recoverable through production.
z% Development Exploration well producing abandonment assets Total US$m e I Foreign exchange Provided in the year e % Foreign exchange Released provided in year e % The decommissioning provisions represent the present value of decommissioning costs related to the Kraken and Catcher development producing projects.
The provisions are based on operator cost estimates, subject to internal review and amendment where considered necessary and are The reasonableness of these assumptions is reviewed at each reporting date to take into account any material changes required.
The decommissioning provisions represent managements best estimate of the obligation arising based on work undertaken at the balance sheet date.
Actual decommissioning costs will depend upon the prevailing market conditions for the work required at the relevant time.
: x US$m Oil and gas expenditure: Intangible exploration appraisal assets Property, plant & equipment development producing assets Contracted for Capital commitments represent Cairns share of obligations in relation to its interests in joint operations.
These commitments include Cairns share of the capital commitments of the joint operations themselves.
x U c F x : U c U 8{k Cairn enters into operating leases both at a corporate level and together with partners through its interests in joint operations.
Operating lease costs for items directly attributable to oil and gas exploration and development activities, such as drilling rigs, are capitalised within intangible exploration appraisal assets or property, plant & equipment development producing assets as appropriate.
151 Financial Statements Section 2 Assets and Investments: Oil and Gas Assets and Decommissioning Provisions continued continued At the year end, Cairn had the following operating lease commitments relating to oil and gas assets.
These amounts are also included in total capital commitments above: US$m Intangible exploration appraisal assets Not later than one year Property, plant & equipment development producing assets Not later than one year After one year but no more than five years The Group has no further material capital expenditure committed at the balance sheet date.
F : Accounting policy Cairn allocates the purchase consideration on the acquisition of a subsidiary to the assets and liabilities acquired on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Any goodwill arising is recognised as an asset and is subject to annual review for impairment.
Goodwill is written off where circumstances indicate : e impairment loss arising is recognised in the income statement for the year.
Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future years.
F : the lowest level at which it will be monitored.
Cairns policy is to monitor goodwill at operating segment level.
Currently, no operating segments containing goodwill are combined into segments for reporting.
: : cash flow projections over the licence period of the exploration assets risk-weighted for future exploration success.
The key assumptions are sensitive to market fluctuations and the success of future exploration drilling programmes.
The most likely factor which will result in a material change to the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is the result of future exploration drilling, which will determine the licence areas future economic potential.
U c Total US$m Net book value e I Foreign exchange e % Foreign exchange e % : U c e % any impairment.
{X e  e 152 F UK & Norway e % : x x The recoverable amount for all assets is based on fair value less costs of disposal estimated using discounted cash flow modelling.
The key assumptions used in determining the fair value are often subjective, such as the future oil price assumption, or the operational performance of the assets.
With Cairns two North Sea development projects reaching first oil during the year, reserve estimates have been updated to reflect the performance of development wells which have either been in line or exceeded pre-drill estimates.
a long-term assumption equal to the forward curve price at the end of the Groups three-year short-term assumption.
These are considered to be reasonably possible changes for the purposes of sensitivity analysis.
There was no impairment of the Groups exploration appraisal assets or development producing assets under any of the sensitivities run.
The reversal of impairment recorded in the year on development producing assets would also remain under all sensitivities performed.
The impact of these changes on the carrying value of the Groups assets at the balance sheet date is summarised below: Forward Curve Reduction in long-term oil price assumption to: US$m US$m US$m Impairment of goodwill Total impairment : { { { would not provide a reasonable estimate to be used in calculating the fair value of the Groups assets.
Cairns reserve estimates do not materially differ from those of the operators or those prepared independently by third-party reservoir evaluation firms.
The reserve estimates are incorporated into production profiles which include assumptions on the performance of the asset.
Cairns current assumption implies a maximum uptime for goodwill.
There would be no impairment of development producing assets.
Senegal : No impairment was recorded.
Further downside sensitivity performed on the Groups oil price assumption did not identify an impairment using any of the alternate price scenarios noted above.
International The Groups portfolio of international assets was reviewed for indicators of impairment but no such indicators were identified.
As the assets in this segment which are not already fully impaired are at an early stage in the exploration life-cycle, any impairment test would not be sensitive to changes in the oil price or any other key assumption: if an indicator of impairment was identified on a remaining asset, that asset would be impaired in full.
