Strategic Report Company Information Financial Advisers Registrars Rothschild & Co Equiniti New Court Aspect House St Swithins Lane Spencer Road London Lancing c eX West Sussex c %e Secretary Duncan Wood LLB UK shareholder helpline number Solicitors Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Overseas shareholder Conference Square helpline number Edinburgh B X Textel Auditor helpline number  LLP Glasgow Shareview dealing : } helpline number Stockbrokers Morgan Stanley www.
co. uk Canary Wharf London e% J. P. Morgan Cazenove Canary Wharf London I{ Printed on FSC-recognised paper, produced from sustainably managed forests.
This report was printed with vegetable oil-based inks by an 8 Fk These materials contain forward-looking statements regarding Cairn, our corporate plans, future financial condition, future results of operations, future business plans and strategies.
All such forward-looking statements are based on our managements assumptions and beliefs in the light of information available to them at this time.
These forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject to significant risks and uncertainties and actual results, performance and achievements may be materially different from those expressed in such statements.
Factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ from expectations include, but are not limited to, regulatory changes, future levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing, weather and weather-related impacts, wars and acts of terrorism, development and use of technology, acts of competitors and other changes to business conditions.
Cairn undertakes no obligation to revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in Cairns expectations with regard thereto or any change in circumstances or events after the date hereof.
{X e  e 189 Head Office London Norway Senegal Mexico X  6th Floor Jttvgveien 7 Immeuble EPI Capricorn Americas Edinburgh 20 Berkeley Square Blokk C Blvd du Sud x Rue a % X % EH3 9BY X 3 etasje 2nd floor des Ecrivains Torre Mayor W1J 6EQ 4020 Stavanger 3eme etage Av.
Paseo fide la Reforma 505 8 Norway Point E 8 % Dakar Col. Cuauhtmoc www.
25087 Dakar Fann Postal Code 06500 Mxico City w
