Section 1 Basis of Preparation This section contains the Group's going concern statement and significant accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Significant accounting policies specific to one note are included within the note itself.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied to all years presented.
interpretations and their expected impact on the performance of the Group, including the impact of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16. z a Basis of preparation {X : % a U X  B Cairn prepares its financial statements on a historical cost basis, unless accounting standards require an alternate measurement basis.
Where there are assets and liabilities calculated on a different basis, this fact is disclosed either in the relevant accounting policy or in the notes to the e F 8 Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Groups financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
b Accounting standards Cairn prepares its financial statements in accordance with applicable IFRS, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB F8 F e reporting under IFRS.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the IASB as they apply to accounting % I e Fe 8 e Fe F e F8 % F k Fe two amendments has had no material impact on Cairns results or financial statement disclosures.
Fe : e Fe F e I I e F8 { I F8 8 F I F8  I F8 X I c Fe F8 impact on Cairns results or financial statement disclosures.
As a result mark-to-market movements currently recorded in other comprehensive income and recycled to the income statement only on disposal or impairment shall now go direct to the income statement.
There will be no change to the valuation of the asset.
F8 Cairns exposure to credit risk at the year end is low and a provision for expected losses is not expected to be material.
This reflects both the low volume of receivables due from third parties at the year end and historic rate of recovery of amounts due from partners in joint operations.
There will therefore be no material impact on the Groups financial statements on adoption.
143 Financial Statements Section 1 Basis of Preparation continued z continued b Accounting standards continued F8  U U a F8 performance obligations are easily identified and price is readily determinable.
k U F8 F8 X F8 e the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
During the year, Cairn recognised a right-of-use asset and a finance liability in respect of the Kraken FPSO.
All joint operators were party : F8 8{k F8 B F8 would not have been material.
Other operating leases that are currently capitalised in property, plant & equipment development producing assets, including drilling rigs, are not considered likely to result in separate right-of-use assets as the lease agreements are less than one year or will have less than one F8 Cairn is continuing to assess accounting for leases held through joint operations, particularly where the operator enters into a lease agreement on behalf of the joint operation but where the joint operators are not direct parties to the lease agreement.
Discussions are ongoing with industry peers to reach conclusion on this issue.
Operating leases for land and buildings, including the Groups head office in Edinburgh and subsidiary offices in London and Stavanger, will F8 : no other significant lease agreements.
% as they relate to property, plant & equipment development producing assets, production costs and administrative expenses respectively.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results of Cairn Energy PLC and its subsidiary undertakings to the balance sheet date.
Where subsidiaries follow differing accounting policies from those of the Group, those accounting policies have been adjusted to align with those of the Group.
Intercompany balances and transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation, though foreign exchange differences arising on intercompany balances between subsidiaries with differing functional currencies are not offset.
The results of subsidiaries acquired in any year are included in the income statement and statement of cash flows from the effective date of acquisition while the results of subsidiaries disposed of during the year are included in the income statement and statement of cash flows to the date at which control passes from the Group.
d Joint arrangements Cairn is a partner joint operator in oil and gas exploration and development licences which are unincorporated joint arrangements.
All of the Groups current interests in these arrangements are determined to be joint operations.
A full list of oil and gas licence interests can be found Costs incurred relating to an interest in a joint operation are capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policies for oil and gas e : x development producing assets relate to interests in joint operations.
{X e  e 144 z continued e Foreign currencies In the financial statements of individual Group companies, Cairn translates foreign currency transactions into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing at the transaction date or an approximation thereof where not materially different.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement except for those incurred on borrowings specifically allocable to development projects, which are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset, though there were none in either the current or preceding year.
The Group maintains the financial statements of the parent and subsidiary undertakings in their functional currency.
Where applicable, the : which are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date and rates at the date of transactions for income statement accounts.
Cairn takes exchange differences arising on the translation of net assets of Group companies whose functional currency is  Closing YTD Average Closing YTD Average Great British Pound Norwegian Kroner f Exceptional items Cairn does not present any items of income and expense as extraordinary items.
However, where items have a significant impact on profit or loss, occur infrequently and are not part of the Groups normal operating cycle, such items may be disclosed as exceptional items on the face of the income statement.
: The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement of going concern.
In assessing whether the going concern assumption is appropriate, the Board and audit committee considered the Group cash flow forecasts under various scenarios, identifying risks and mitigants and ensuring the Group has sufficient funding to meet its current commitments as and when they : the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
