Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 67 Strategic Report Supplementary information Governance Financial statements Further information appointed by more than one member, the proxy Introduction Current share repurchase authority has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy References in this section to the Articles are to The Company obtained shareholder approval at has been instructed by one or more members to the Companys Articles of Association as at the the AGM held in May 2017 for the repurchase of vote for the resolution and by one or more date of this report, copies of which are available up to 50,723,231 shares which represented, at members to vote against the resolution.
from the Registrar of Companies or on request that time, 10% of the Companys issued share from the Company Secretary.
Whilst no Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to purchases have been made by the Company exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to References in this section to the Companies Act pursuant to the 2017 Authority, it is intended speak and vote on their behalf at a general are to the Companies Act 2006. that shareholder consent will be sought on meeting or class meeting.
A member that is a similar terms at this years AGM when the 2017 corporation is entitled to appoint more than one Share capital Authority expires.
individual to act on its behalf at a general meeting Issued share capital or class meetings as a corporate representative.
Additional share capital information The issued share capital of the Company as at 1 This section provides additional information as at c Transfer of shares January 2017 was 507,232,310 ordinary shares 31 December 2017.
The relevant provisions of the Articles state that: of 25 pence each shares.
No shares were issued during the year.
a Structure of share capital registration of a transfer of an uncertificated The Company has a single class of share capital share may be refused in the circumstances set The Hochschild Mining Employee Share Trust which is divided into ordinary shares of 25 pence out in the CREST Regulations and where, in the the Trust is an employee share trust each, which are in registered form.
case of a transfer to joint holders, the number established to hold shares on trust for the of joint holders to whom the uncertificated Further information on the Companys share benefit of employees within the Group.
share is to be transferred exceeds four: capital is provided in note 27 to the consolidated The Trustee of the Trust has absolute discretion to financial statements.
the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, vote or abstain from voting in relation to the decline to register any transfer of any share b Rights and obligations attaching to shares shares held by it from time to time and in doing so which is not a fully paid share.
The Directors The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are may take into account the interests of current and may also decline to recognise any instrument described in full in the Articles.
future beneficiaries and other considerations.
of transfer relating to a certificated share In summary, on a show of hands and on a poll at unless the instrument of transfer: Substantial shareholdings a general meeting or class meeting, every As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been i is duly stamped if required and is member present in person or, subject to the notified of the following interests in the accompanied by the relevant share below, by proxy has one vote for every ordinary Companys shares in accordance with Chapter 5 certificate s and such other evidence of share held.
However, in the case of a vote on a of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure the right to transfer as the Directors may show of hands, where a proxy has been Guidance and Transparency Rules: reasonably require: and ii is in respect of only one class of share.
The Directors may, in their absolute Percentage of Percentage of discretion, refuse to register a transfer if it Number of voting rights voting rights is in favour of more than four persons ordinary shares indirect direct jointly: and 1 Eduardo Hochschild 258,565,373 50.976% the Directors may decline to register a transfer Majedie Asset Management Limited 25,441,448 5.02% of any of the Companys shares by a person Vanguard Precious Metals and Mining Fund 25,333,018 4.994% with a 0.25% interest, if such a person has been Van Eck Associates Corporation 24,715,437 4.87% served with a notice under the Companies Act after failure to provide the Company with 1 The shareholding of Mr Eduardo Hochschild is held through Pelham Investment Corporation.
information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the No further notifications have been received up until the date of this Annual Report.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 68 Hochschild Mining plc Supplementary information continued b $100m Credit Agreement d Restrictions on voting a $350m 7.75% Senior Notes Under the terms and conditions of the $100 No member shall be entitled to vote at any Under the terms and conditions of the $350 million Credit and Guaranty Agreement between, general meeting or class meeting in respect of million 7.75% Senior Notes due 2021 which, amongst others, the Group and Scotiabank Peru any shares held by him or her, if any call or other although in issue as at the balance sheet date, S. A.
A, a Change of Control obliges the Group to sum then payable by him or her in respect of that were subsequently redeemed earlier this year, prepay all Advances as defined in the share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares upon the occurrence of a change of control agreement unless any Lender notifies the are fully paid.
followed by a ratings downgrade which results in Group that it is declining any such prepayment in a change of control repurchase event as In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if which case the Advances owing to such declining defined in the indenture, the Company may be he or she failed to provide the Company with Lender shall not be prepaid.
required by each holder of the notes to offer to information concerning interests in those shares purchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of In summary, a Change of Control means an event required to be provided under the Companies Act.
the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued or series of events by which: a the Permitted e Deadlines for voting rights and unpaid interest and additional amounts, if Holders being Eduardo Hochschild, his spouse, Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of any, to the purchase date.
either of their descendants or estate or guardian the Company in respect of which the business of any of the aforementioned, a trust for the In summary, a Change of Control means the being voted upon is being heard.
benefit of one or more of the aforementioned or occurrence of one or more of the following any entity controlled by any one or more of the Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or, events: 1 the disposition other than by way aforementioned or investment vehicle for the in relation to corporate members, by a of merger or consolidation of all or substantially primary benefit of any of them shall for any corporate representative.
Under the Articles, all of the assets of the Company and its reason cease, individually or in the aggregate, to the deadline for delivering proxy forms cannot subsidiaries taken as a whole to any person other than i to the Company or one of its control the Company: or b the Permitted be earlier than 48 hours excluding non-working subsidiaries or ii to a Permitted Holder being Holders shall for any reason cease, individually or days before the meeting for which the proxy is Eduardo Hochschild or a permitted transferee : in the aggregate, to have the power to appoint at being appointed.
2 the consummation of any transaction least a majority of the members of the Board of Shareholder agreements including any merger or consolidation the Directors or other equivalent governing body of The Relationship Agreement entered into prior result of which is that i any person other than the Company: or c the Company shall for any to the IPO between, amongst others, the Major a Permitted Holder becomes the beneficial reason cease, directly or through one or more Shareholder as defined in the Relationship owner of more than 50% of the Companys of its Subsidiaries, to be the beneficial owner Agreement and Eduardo Hochschild outstanding Voting Stock as defined or ii the as so defined of more than 50% of the Equity collectively the Controlling Shareholders Permitted Holders cease to be the beneficial Interests in Compania Minera Ares S. A. C. and the Company: owners, directly or indirectly, of at least a c Long-Term Incentive Plans contains provisions restricting the Controlling majority of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Awards made under the Groups Long-Term Shareholders rights to exercise their voting Company: 3 the Company consolidates with, Incentive Plan, Enhanced Long-Term Incentive rights to procure an amendment to the Articles or merges with or into any person, or any person Plan and Restricted Share Plan shall, upon a that would be inconsistent with the consolidates with, or merges with or into, the change of control of the Company, vest early Relationship Agreement: and Company, in any such event pursuant to a unless a replacement award is made.
Vesting will transaction in which any of the outstanding contains an undertaking by the Controlling be pro-rated to take account of the proportion Voting Stock of the Company or such other Shareholders that they will, and will procure of the period from the award date to the normal person is converted into or exchanged for cash, that their Associates will, abstain from voting vesting date falling prior to the change of control securities or other property, other than any such on any resolution to approve a transaction with and the extent to which performance conditions a related party as defined in the FCA Listing transaction where the shares of the Voting Stock and any other conditions applying to the Rules involving the Controlling Shareholders of the Company outstanding immediately prior award have been met.
to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person immediately after Significant agreements giving effect to such transaction: 4 the first A change of control of the Company following a day on which the majority of the members of the takeover bid may cause a number of agreements Board of Directors of the Company cease to be to which the Company, or any of its trading Continuing Directors as defined : 5 the subsidiaries, is party to take effect, alter or Company shall for any reason cease to be the terminate.
Such agreements include commercial beneficial owner as defined of 100% of the trading contracts, joint venture agreements and Voting Stock of Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. : financing arrangements.
Further details are given or 6 the adoption of a plan relating to the below of those arrangements where the impact liquidation or dissolution of Compaa Minera may be considered to be significant in the Ares S. A. C. context of the Group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 69 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Relationship Agreement Additional disclosures In addition, under the terms of the Relationship Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4C R Agreement: For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found for as long as the Major Shareholder has an in the following parts of this Annual Report: interest of 30% or more in the Company, it is Section Matter Location entitled to appoint up to two Non-Executive Directors and to remove such Directors so 1 Interest capitalised Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements appointed: and 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable for as long as the Major Shareholder has an 4 Details of specified long-term incentive scheme None interest of 15% or more of the Company, it is 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Directors Remuneration Report entitled to appoint up to one Non-Executive 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director As 5 above Director and to remove such Director so appointed.
7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash None 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings None Amendment of Articles of Association 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary None Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the 10 a Contract of significance in which a Director is interested None Companies Act by way of special resolution.
10 b Contract of significance with controlling shareholder None Powers of the Directors 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Directors Report Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors Report any directions given by special resolution, the 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors Report business and affairs of the Company shall be 14 Agreement with controlling shareholder Directors Report managed by the Directors who may exercise all such powers of the Company.
election or re-election of any Independent Summary of constitutional Subject to applicable statutes and other Director must be approved by: i all and other provisions shareholders rights, shares may be issued with shareholders of the Company: and ii the such rights or restrictions as the Company may by Appointment of Directors independent shareholders of the Company ordinary resolution decide or, in the absence of Under the terms of the Articles i. e. any person entitled to vote on the election any such resolution, as the Directors may decide.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by of Directors of the Company that is not a Subject to applicable statutes and any ordinary ordinary resolution or by the Board.
resolution of the Company, all unissued shares of appointed by the Board holds office only until If either shareholder resolution to elect or the Company are at the disposal of the Directors.
the next following AGM and is then eligible for re-elect the Independent Director is defeated, At each AGM, the Company puts in place annual election by shareholders but is not taken into the Company may propose a further resolution shareholder authority seeking shareholder account in determining the Directors or the to elect or re-elect the proposed Independent consent to allot unissued shares, in certain number of Directors who are to retire by Director provided that the further resolution circumstances for cash, in accordance with the rotation at that meeting.
must not be voted on within 90 days from the guidelines of the Investor Protection Committee.
The Directors may from time to time appoint date of the original vote but it must then be Repurchase of shares one or more of their body to be the holder of voted on within a period of 30 days from the end Subject to authorisation by shareholder any executive office for such period subject to of the 90 day period.
It may then be passed by a resolution, the Company may purchase its own the Companies Act and on such terms as they simple majority of the shareholders of the shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
may determine and may revoke or terminate any Company voting as a single class.
Any shares which have been bought back may be such appointment.
Removal of Directors held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be Each Director is subject to periodic re-election The Company may, in accordance with and subject cancelled immediately upon completion of the by shareholders at intervals of no more than to the provisions of the Companies Act by ordinary purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the every three years.
Each Director other than the resolution of which special notice has been given, Companys issued share capital.
The minimum Chairman and any Director holding executive remove any Director before the expiration of his price which must be paid for such shares is office shall retire at each AGM following the term of office.
The office of Director shall be specified in the relevant shareholder resolution.
ninth anniversary of the date on which he was vacated if: i he is prohibited by law from acting Dividends and distributions elected by the Company.
as a Director: ii he resigns or offers to resign and Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Directors resolve to accept such offer: iii he Approach to appointment adopted the Company may by ordinary resolution from becomes bankrupt or compounds with his by the Board time to time declare dividends not exceeding the creditors generally: iv a relevant order has been Under law, the Company is entitled to adopt amount recommended by the Directors.
The made by any court on the grounds of mental such practices which are no less stringent than Directors may pay interim dividends whenever disorder: v he is absent without permission of those set out in the Articles.
Accordingly, the financial position of the Company, in the the Directors from meetings of the Board for six notwithstanding the above, the Board has opinion of the Directors, justifies their payment.
months and the Directors resolve that his office be adopted the recommendation of the UK If the Directors act in good faith, they are not vacated: vi his resignation is requested in writing Corporate Governance Code that all Directors liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari by not less than three quarters of the Directors for should seek annual re-election by shareholders.
passu rights for losses arising from the payment the time being: or vii in the case of a Director of interim dividends on other shares.
2014 Listing Rules other than the Chairman and any Director holding Following the implementation, in 2014, of new an executive office, if the Directors shall resolve to Listing Rules by the Financial Conduct Authority require him to resign and within 30 days of being in its capacity as the UK Listing Authority, as a given notice of such notice he so fails to do.
company with a controlling shareholder, the
