112 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation Hastings Group Holdings plc the Company, Hastings, HGH has its registered office and principal place of business at Conquest House, Collington Avenue, Bexhill-on-Sea, TN39 3LW, United Kingdom.
The Companys registered number is 09635183.
The principal activities of the Group are the broking and underwriting of UK private car, van, bike and home insurance.
The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group forthe year ended 31 December 2017 and comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS that are in effect at 31 December 2017.
IFRS comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Going concern The financial performance and position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out in the primary statements and the subsequent notes.
Further analysis of the Groups operations, capital management strategy, risk management practices and growth strategy may be found in the Strategic Report.
Having considered the foregoing items, the Groups approved budget and cash flow forecasts for the next 12 months and beyond, and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Basis of measurement The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling.
Amounts are rounded to the nearest million with one decimal place e. g. 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amounts, events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to these Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed in Note 3.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and property which are measured at their fair value or revalued amounts.
Adoption of new IFRS The Group has adopted the following amendments to IFRS which were effective from 1 January 2017.
Except where stated, these did not have an impact upon the Consolidated Financial Statements: Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative - endorsed by the EU on 6 November 2017.
The amendments require additional disclosure in relation to changes in the value of liabilities arising from financing activities.
This has resulted in additional disclosure in Note 26 of movements in liabilities arising from financing activities.
Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses endorsed by the EU on 6 November 2017.
The amendments clarify that unrealised losses on debt instruments measured at fair value can give rise to deductible temporary differences.
The following amendment to IFRS was endorsed by the EU during the year but is not yet effective: Amendments to IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts endorsed by the EU on 3November 2017.
The amendments permit an entity to defer the application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments subject to the predominance of insurance activities.
The Group currently expects to defer the application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 113 1.
Basis of preparation continued Adoption of new IFRS continued The following accounting standards and amendments to IFRS have been issued by the IASB but are not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 sets out comprehensive requirements relating to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The standard was endorsed by the EU on 22 November 2016 and is effective from 1 January 2018 unless the amendments to IFRS 4 that are discussed above are applied.
The Group currently expects to apply these amendments and defer application of IFRS 9 until 1 January 2021.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9 alongside IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 provides a five step framework for the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers and requires increased levels of quantitative and qualitative disclosures.
The standard was endorsed by the EU on 22 September 2016 and is effective from 1 January 2018.
The standard will result in broking income being allocated amongst performance obligations as defined by the standard.
The adoption of IFRS 15 is currently expected to result in an immaterial amount of revenue and certain acquisition costs being reallocated amongst broker services, which will have a net impact of less than 2.0m on the opening balance sheet.
The application of the standard will also require additional disclosure within the Financial Statements.
The Group intends to use a modified retrospective approach whereby comparatives are not restated and the cumulative impact of adjustments is recognised in the balance sheet at the date of initial application, which will be 1 January 2018.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 implements a single, comprehensive lease accounting model for lessees whereby lessees will be required to recognise leases on balance sheet through a right of use asset and a financial liability.
The standard was endorsed by the EU on 31 October 2017 and is effective from 1 January 2019.
Management are in the process of evaluating the impact of IFRS 16 on the Consolidated Financial Statements as well as the appropriate transition option, but it is anticipated that IFRS 16 will result in higher depreciation and finance charges and lower operating expenses as well as increase the amount of fixed assets and financial liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The undiscounted value of the Groups operating lease obligations is disclosed in Note 30.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts The IASB issued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts on 18 May 2017.
IFRS 17 provides a comprehensive framework for accounting for insurance contracts and it is anticipated to impact the treatment and measurement of income, expenses, assets and liabilities arising from insurance contracts.
The standard is expected to be effective from 1 January 2021, subject to endorsement.
Management are currently in the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 17 upon the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the Group.
Subsidiaries are investees controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an investee if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Group reassesses whether it has control if there are changes to one or more of the elements of control.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control commences until the date when control ceases.
Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 114 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies Revenue recognition Insurance premiums, reinsurance and profit commission Premiums related to insurance contracts are recognised as revenue proportionally over the period of cover provided.
Premiums with an inception date after the period end are held in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in deferred income.
Outstanding premiums from customers at the year end are recognised within insurance receivables.
Premiums ceded to reinsurers are recognised in profit or loss in the same period as the related direct insurance business.
Under certain reinsurance contracts, profit commission may become receivable or payable in respect of a particular underwriting year dependent on the difference between the ultimate loss ratio and the loss ratio threshold set out in the contract.
Profit commission receivable or payable at each reporting date is recognised based on the estimated ultimate loss ratio for that underwriting year at the reporting date.
Any movement on the profit commission receivable or payable in the period is recognised in profit or loss within reinsurance commissions.
Other reinsurance commissions are recognised in profit or loss within reinsurance commissions in the period to which they relate.
Revenue from insurance broking activities Revenue from insurance broking activities consists principally of fees and commissions relating to the arrangement of insurance contracts, ancillary product income and other income.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the income receivable with an allowance for expected future refunds to customers in the event of cancellation before the expiry of the policy.
Revenue from commissions is recognised when the insurance policy is placed and incepted.
Revenue from fees and ancillary products is recognised at the point of sale to the customer on an agency basis as the Group has no further obligations in respect of the services provided.
Premium finance interest Premium finance interest, earned on sales where customers choose to pay in monthly instalments instead of one single, upfront payment, is recognised in profit or loss over the term of the related agreement using the effective interest method.
Investment and interest income Investment and interest income from financial assets comprises interest income and net gains and losses on certain financial assets held at fair value.
Interest income for all interest-bearing financial assets, including available for sale financial assets, is recognised in profit or loss within investment and interest income using the effective interest rate method.
Discounts Premium discounts on policies underwritten by parties external to the Group are deducted from fees and commission within other revenue.
Premium discounts for policies underwritten by the Group are deducted from gross written premiums and are recognised proportionally over the period of cover provided.
Other discounts on revenue are deducted from the revenue streams to which they relate.
Insurance contracts and reinsurance assets Claims liabilities Gross outstanding claims liabilities are recognised at the value of expected future payments relating to claims incurred at the reporting date.
The expected future payments include those in relation to claims reported but not yet paid or not yet paid in full, and claims incurred but not reported IBNR.
The liabilities are not discounted to present value, except for periodic payment orders PPOs.
PPOs are awarded as a result of certain large bodily injury claims made under insurance contracts.
Such awards are generally for a fixed instalment over an indeterminate time period.
Claims settled, or expected to be settled, by means of a PPO are recognised at the present value of expected future cash flows of the award granted over the expected term of the PPO, and are recognised immediately when the award is considered probable.
Discounting is implicit within these reserving calculations at each period end for each expected PPO.
While the Directors consider that the gross outstanding claims liabilities and the related reinsurance assets are fairly stated on the basis of the information currently available to them, the amount that claims liabilities ultimately settle at will vary as a result of subsequent information and events and may result in significant adjustments to the amounts recognised.
Adjustments to the amounts of outstanding claims liabilities established in prior years are reflected in profit or loss for the period in which the adjustments are made.
The methods used, and the estimates made, are reviewed regularly.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 115 2.
Accounting policies continued Insurance contracts and reinsurance assets continued Reinsurance contracts Contracts entered into under which the Group is compensated for losses on insurance contracts are classified as reinsurance contracts held.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts consist of short term balances due from reinsurers, recognised as reinsurance receivables: and longer term receivables that are dependent on the expected claims and benefits arising under the related reinsured insurance contracts, recognised as reinsurance assets.
Reinsurance assets are measured consistently with the amounts recognised for the associated reinsured insurance contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract.
Reinsurance assets are not discounted to present value, except those relating to PPOs, in line with the underlying liabilities.
Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable to reinsurers under reinsurance contracts held and are recognised when due.
Amounts recoverable from or payable to reinsurers are measured in a manner that is consistent with the amounts recognised for the associated provision for insurance contract liabilities and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract held.
The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on an annual basis.
If there is objective evidence that the reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance asset to its recoverable amount and recognises that impairment loss in profit or loss.
Where obligations with reinsurers are commuted, the related reinsurance assets and liabilities are settled in the period in which the commutation agreement is signed, on the basis that the reinsurer is discharged from all obligations relating to the contract.
Any gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss in the same period.
Co-insurance contracts Contracts entered into under which the Group shares the risk with a co-insurance partner at inception of the policy are classified as co-insurance contracts held.
Where the Group is the secondary co-insurer, the Group only recognises its share of the premium as an insurance receivable and related claims liability.
Where the Group acts as the lead co-insurer, the gross premium is recognised as an insurance receivable, with a related co-insurance payable to the co-insurer.
The Group recognises co-insurance premiums and claims liabilities in the profit or loss in the period to which they relate.
Unearned premiums reserve Premiums on policies with an inception date before the period end but with unexpired risks after the period end are held in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the unearned premiums reserve within insurance contract liabilities.
The gross unearned premiums reserve and the reserve for unearned premiums ceded to reinsurers are presented separately.
A review of the carrying amount of the unearned premiums reserve is conducted at each reporting date.
If current estimates of the present value of the expected future cash flows relating to future claims arising from the rights and obligations under current insurance contracts exceed the unearned premiums reserve less related costs including deferred acquisition costs, then the unearned premiums reserve is deemed to be deficient.
The test is performed at the level of a portfolio of contracts that are subject to broadly similar risks and that are managed together as a single portfolio.
If any deficiency arises from the test, first an impairment of deferred acquisition costs is recognised in profit or loss, and then if necessary an unexpired risks reserve is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, through profit or loss.
Any movement on that reserve is recognised in profit or loss.
Salvage and subrogation recoveries Certain insurance contracts permit the Group to salvage recoveries through the sale of property acquired in settling a claim.
The Group may also have the right to subrogation recoveries, where third parties are pursued for the payment of costs.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 116 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Insurance contracts and reinsurance assets continued Salvage and subrogation recoveries continued Salvage and subrogation recoveries, gross of any amounts which fall under reinsurance contracts held, are included in insurance and other receivables and the corresponding reinsurance amounts arising from reinsurance contracts are included in insurance and other payables.
Salvage recoveries are recognised at the amount that can be reasonably recovered from the disposal of the property.
Subrogation reimbursements are recognised at the amount that can be reasonably expected to be recovered from action against the liable third party.
Deferred acquisition costs Costs that are directly related to the acquisition of new insurance contracts are recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as deferred acquisition costs.
They are subsequently charged to the profit or loss evenly over the 12 month coverage period of the related insurance contract, in line with recognition of the corresponding premiums.
Claims handling expenses The Group accrues for claims handling expenses incurred in processing and settling all incurred claims that remain outstanding at the reporting date, including those not yet reported.
The liability, which is not discounted for the time value of money, is determined based on past claims handling experience and is reported within insurance and other payables in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Claims handling expenses are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss within other expenses as the claims are incurred.
Employee benefits Pension contributions The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
The amount charged to profit or loss in respect of pension costs is the amount of contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Group has no obligation to make any further payments to the plans other than the contributions due.
Scheme assets are held separately from the Group in an independently administered fund.
Share based payments The Group operates equity settled share based payment schemes under which participants may receive free share awards or nil cost options, depending on the scheme.
Awards may have service and performance conditions attached.
The fair value of a share based payment award is determined at grant date and expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase recognised directly in equity.
Expected vesting in respect of both service conditions and non-market performance conditions is reviewed annually and adjustments are made retrospectively to the cumulative expense recognised.
Non-trading items and material items Non-trading items are expenses or earnings, and the related tax impacts thereof, which the Directors believe are not representative of the underlying activities of the Group and have therefore been presented separately in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
These include expenses incurred in the course of the Group reorganisation and IPO in 2015, as well as the ongoing impact of the Goldman Sachs investment on 8 January 2014.
Material items are expenses or earnings that arise due to one-off, external events that, in the judgement of the Directors, warrant separate disclosure due to the significance of the impact or nature of the event.
The impact of such items is included within the classification line to which they relate, and separate analysis of the impact is provided with full disclosure of the event and impact within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Finance costs The Groups finance costs comprise interest payable on financial liabilities held by the Group.
Interest payable on financial liabilities is recognised using the effective interest method and includes amortisation of directly attributable transaction costs.
Taxation Income tax on the result for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, items recognised in other comprehensive income or items recognised directly in equity.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 117 2.
Accounting policies continued Taxation continued Current taxation expense is the expected income tax payable on the taxable profit for the period, using tax rates applicable and any adjustment to income tax payable in respect of previous financial periods.
Deferred taxation expense is the change in deferred income tax assets and liabilities between the reporting periods.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance sheet method for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
A deferred income tax liability is recognised for all taxable temporary differences except when they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred income tax is also not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Goodwill Goodwill is the difference between the fair value of the consideration transferred in a business combination and the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of the business combination.
Any acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash generating units CGUs.
Goodwill is considered to have an indefinite useful economic life and is tested for impairment annually.
Intangible assets Software Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Purchased computer software is initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of consideration transferred plus directly attributable costs incurred in order to prepare the asset for its intended use.
Internally developed computer software is only recognised as an asset when the costs can be measured reliably, completion is technically and financially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and there is intention to use or sell the asset.
Other research and development expenditure is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Software is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
On derecognition, any gain or loss arising is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item.
This is recognised in profit or loss in the period of derecognition.
Brands and customer relationships Brands and customer relationships are recognised on acquisition at fair value and are subsequently measured using the historical cost method their fair value on acquisition less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation Amortisation is provided on intangible assets at rates calculated to write off the cost of the assets less their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method and is recognised in profit or loss.
Expected useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed at each period end and, where necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
The expected useful economic lives of intangible assets are as follows: Software 3-7 years Brands 8 years Customer relationships 5 years Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 118 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Intangible assets continued Work in progress Work in progress includes intangible assets in the course of development which are considered to be eligible for capitalisation but which have not yet reached the state where they are ready for their intended use.
As such no amortisation has yet been charged on these assets.
Property and equipment The Group has chosen to value property using the revaluation model.
Properties are initially recognised at cost and subsequent to initial recognition properties are carried at their revalued amount, which is the fair value at the date of revaluation less subsequent depreciation and impairment losses.
Property is revalued annually using level 3 inputs as defined in Note 2 Fair values, with independent expert valuations being performed every three years.
Revaluation surpluses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Upon disposal of a property, any revaluation surplus is recognised directly in retained earnings and is not reclassified to profit or loss.
Revaluations resulting in a reduction to fair value are initially offset against the revaluation surplus and any excess is immediately recognised in profit or loss as an impairment loss.
Equipment, consisting of fixtures, fittings, office equipment, computer equipment and leasehold improvements, is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost is the fair value of consideration provided plus incremental costs incurred to bring an asset to the condition and location necessary for its intended use.
Costs incurred subsequent to the initial production of the asset are capitalised where they are deemed to have improved the original.
Depreciation is provided on all property and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, or fair value in the case of property, of the assets less their estimated residual value over their expected useful lives.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method and is recognised in profit or loss.
The expected useful economic lives of property and equipment are as follows: Property 50 years Property and leasehold improvements 4-10 years Computer equipment 2-5 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-5 years Expected useful economic lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and, where necessary, changes are accounted for prospectively.
Property and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Impairment Carrying amounts of intangible assets and property and equipment are reviewed at each reporting date to determine if there are indicators of impairment.
Where these exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the assets value in use.
Goodwill has an indefinite life and is tested annually for impairment.
Impairment exists where the recoverable amount of the CGU is lower than the combined carrying amount of net assets and goodwill allocated to the CGU.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is the higher of the fair value of the CGU less costs to sell and the CGUs value in use.
Fair value is the price that would be received in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable market participants.
Value in use is the present value of expected future pre-tax cashflows attributable to the asset or group of assets.
Where an assets or a group of assets recoverable amount is exceeded by its carrying amount, the difference is recognised as an impairment loss in profit or loss.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 119 2.
Accounting policies continued Leased assets Payments made under operating leases are charged in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Any incentives provided by the lessor are recognised in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the full lease term.
Financial assets The Groups financial assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, financial assets held at fair value and insurance and other receivables.
For measurement purposes the Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: financial assets classified as available for sale: and loans and receivables.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets are classified as fair value through profit or loss if they are classified as held for trading or if the Group manages such investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy.
Financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss are initially measured at fair value being the cost of acquisition excluding transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of these financial assets are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
Purchases and sales of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognised on a trade date basis, being the date on which a commitment is made to purchase or sell the asset.
Transaction costs for purchases and sales are expensed as incurred in profit or loss.
Available for sale financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are classified as available for sale when they are not classified as either loans and receivables, held to maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Available for sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date, with unrealised gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in other reserves until the point of disposal, when accumulated gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Interest income or expense calculated using the effective interest rate on available for sale financial assets is recognised in the profit or loss.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less accumulated impairment losses.
Insurance and other receivables are classed as loans and receivables.
Insurance receivables include amounts not yet due in respect of insurance premiums where the policyholder has elected to pay in instalments over the term of the policy.
Derecognition of financial assets Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive future cash flows from the assets have expired, or have been transferred, and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Any residual gains or losses resulting from the derecognition of the asset are recognised in profit or loss in the period of derecognition.
Any unrealised gains or losses on available for sale financial assets previously accumulated in other reserves are reclassified to profit or loss in the period of derecognition.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 120 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets continued Impairment of financial assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset.
Objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired includes observable data that comes to the attention of the Group about events such as: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or debtor: a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments: or the probability that the issuer or debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and an impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss for the period.
When reductions in the fair value of available for sale financial assets are considered to be impairment losses, losses accumulated in other reserves are reclassified to profit or loss.
The amount reclassified is the difference between the value on initial recognition, net of any principal repayment and amortisation, and the current fair value of the asset, less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss on financial assets, other than available for sale financial assets, reverses, and the reverse can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised such as improved profitability of the debtor, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss in the period.
If the fair value of an impaired available for sale financial asset subsequently increases, the loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that it offsets impairment losses previously recognised: otherwise, it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities The Groups financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings and insurance and other payables.
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value less any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method with interest accrued in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in insurance and other payables.
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet only when there is a current unconditional and legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts in all circumstances including the default by, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group and all counterparties, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Cash and cash equivalents The Groups cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand and in bank, investments in highly liquid money market funds and other short term deposits that are redeemable within 90 days.
Insurance intermediary assets and liabilities Receivables and payables arising from insurance broking transactions are shown as assets and liabilities in recognition of the fact that the insurance broker has contractual rights to economic inflows from customers and obligations to third party insurers upon placement of insurance products with customers.
Receivables are recognised when the Group provides financing to customers for instalment premiums payable to third party insurers.
Payables arise where the Group has an obligation to remit premiums received to third party insurers.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 121 2.
Accounting policies continued Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no obligation to transfer cash or other financial assets, or to exchange financial assets or liabilities under potentially unfavourable conditions.
Where such an obligation exists, the share capital is recognised as a liability notwithstanding the legal form.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are recognised, net of tax effect, as a deduction from share premium to the extent that there is sufficient share premium to do so.
Dividends Dividends are recognised directly in equity when approved and payable.
Fair values Property and financial assets carried at fair value are analysed by their level within the fair value hierarchy based on the observability of inputs into the valuation.
Such assets are categorised as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The level in which financial assets carried at fair value have been classified in their entirety is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
Where assets are not traded sufficiently regularly for the sales to be classified as occurring on active market, or are based on observable market data rather than on actual transactions, they are classified as level 2.
Assets are valued by reference to the most recent observable market trade unless there is evidence of impairment.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the Directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the assets and liabilities recognised as at the reporting date and the income and expense recognised during the reporting period, as well as the content of any disclosures.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amounts, events and actions, actual results may differ from these judgements and assumptions.
The judgements that the Directors have made in applying the Groups accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the major sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: Claims liabilities The estimation of liabilities arising from claims made under insurance contracts and the related reinsurance recoveries are the Groups most critical accounting estimates.
Estimates, and the resulting loss ratios, are informed by detailed actuarial analysis and reflect a balanced assessment of risk and probability, resulting in a sufficiently prudent liability to give the Directors of the Group confidence that the Group is adequately provisioned to meet its future liabilities.
The actuarial best estimate of outstanding claims includes the estimate of expenses to be incurred in settling claims and a deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
The Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure that it has appropriate information regarding claims exposure.
However, given the uncertainty in establishing claims provisions, it is likely that the final outcome will prove to be different from the original estimated liability.
In order to reduce the risk of underestimation of these liabilities, a margin is maintained over and above the Groups internal actuarial best estimate of outstanding claims liabilities.
In calculating the estimated cost of unpaid claims, the Group uses a variety of estimation techniques, including statistical analysis of historic experience, which assumes that the development pattern of the current claims will be consistent with past experience.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 122 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued Claims liabilities continued A component of these estimation techniques is the estimation of the cost of notified but not paid claims.
In estimating the cost of these, the Group has regard to the claim circumstances as reported, information available from loss adjusters and information on the cost of settling claims with similar characteristics in previous years.
The estimation of claims incurred but not reported IBNR is generally subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of the cost of settling claims already notified to the Group, where information about the claim event is available.
Classes of business where the IBNR proportion of the total outstanding claims liabilities is high will typically display greater variations between the initial estimates and the final outcomes because of the greater degree of difficulty of estimating those reserves.
Classes of business where claims are typically reported relatively quickly after the claim event will tend to display lower levels of volatility.
Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the required level of claims liabilities.
This provides greater understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
The projections given by the various methodologies also assist in setting the range of possible outcomes.
The most appropriate estimation technique is selected, taking into account the characteristics of the business class and the extent of the development of each accident year.
Allowance is made for changes or uncertainties which may create distortions in the underlying statistics or which might cause the cost of unsettled claims to increase or reduce when compared with the cost of previously settled claims, including: changes in Group processes which might accelerate the development and or recording of paid or incurred claims compared with the statistics from previous years: changes in the legal environment: the effect of inflation: changes in the mix of business: the impact of large losses: and movements in industry benchmarks.
Large third party injury claims typically involve costs that relate to future periods, such as covering the loss of future earnings or the ongoing cost of care, and will either be settled through a lump sum settlement or through a periodic payment order PPO.
Such claims, including PPOs, are generally assessed individually, either being measured on a case by case basis or projected separately in order to reduce the possible distortive effect of the development and incidence.
Where a claim has been settled through a PPO or it is expected that a PPO will be awarded, the liability is calculated using discounted cash flows.
Where management assesses that a claim will be settled through a lump sum payment, the liability is calculated with reference to the Ogden rate which is used by the courts when calculating lump sum settlements.
The rate, as currently effective, is minus 0.75%, which has been used to calculate the Groups claims liabilities.
The following table sets out the impact on profit after tax and total equity that would result from an increase in the Ogden rate to 0.0%, or a reduction down to minus 1.5%: Impact of Ogden rate being revised to: 0.0% 1.5% Impact on profit after tax and total equity m 4.5 7.2 Short tail claims are normally reported soon after the incident and are generally settled within the months following the reported incident.
Hence any development on short tail claims is normally limited to the period in which the incident occurred and the following period.
For long tail claims it can be more than one period before a claim is reported and several periods before it is settled, hence the original estimation involves greater uncertainty and it is inherently more likely that there will be a greater disparity between the original and current estimates.
It is for these long tail claims that the development of the outstanding claims liability generally occurs over a number of periods.
The development of claims from prior periods is set out in Note 21.
Given the uncertainty in establishing the outstanding claims liabilities, it is likely that the final outcome will be different from the original liability established.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 123 3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued The following table sets out the adverse impact on profit after tax and total equity that would result from a 1% deterioration in the ultimate loss ratio used for each accident year for which material amounts remain outstanding: Year ended 31 31 31 31 December December December December 2014 2015 2016 2017 Impact of 1% change m 3.7 4.7 6.0 7.4 Reinsurance assets The Group uses both non proportional excess of loss reinsurance and quota share reinsurance arrangements.
The calculation of reinsurance recoveries is intrinsically linked to the calculation of outstanding claims liabilities, and requires the same estimations and judgements, as reinsurance assets are recognised to the extent that the Group can recover the cost of a claim.
Further judgement is required in respect of the recoverability of such assets, particularly the longer term assets arising from larger claims and PPOs.
Management review the recoverability of reinsurance assets on a regular basis to determine whether any provision is required.
When recognising a reinsurance asset, the Group reviews the level of coverage provided by the reinsurer, to ensure that the recognition is appropriate, as well as the credit rating of the counterparty.
Insurance contracts risk management A key risk from operating in the general insurance industry is the exposure to insurance risk arising from underwriting insurance contracts.
Insurance contracts transfer risk to the insurer by indemnifying the customers against adverse effects arising from the occurrence of specified uncertain future events.
The risk is that the actual amount of claims to be paid in relation to contracts will be different from the amount estimated at the time the contract was designed and priced, which is before the losses relating to it are known.
Hence the insurance business involves inherent uncertainty.
A fundamental part of the Groups overall risk management strategy is the effective governance and management of risks that impact the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from insurance contracts.
Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk A disciplined approach to risk management is adopted in accordance with strict protocols.
It is believed that this approach provides the greatest long term likelihood of being able to meet the objectives of all stakeholders, including customers, lenders and shareholders.
The risk management activities can be broadly separated into underwriting acceptance and pricing of risk, reinsurance, claims management and investment management.
The objective of these risk management functions is to enhance the longer term financial performance of the overall insurance operations.
Acceptance of risk The Board of Directors of the Groups Underwriting subsidiary, Advantage Insurance Company Limited AICL approves the underwriting and pricing policy, and reviews and monitors the underwriting and pricing standards and strategies.
The Groups underwriting strategy is focused on a sophisticated data driven approach to pricing and underwriting through: collating and analysing comprehensive data from customers: tight control over the pricing guidelines in order to target profitable business lines: and fast and flexible response to market trends.
The underwriting of large numbers of uncorrelated individual risks reduces the variability in overall claims experience.
Management information systems are maintained that provide up to date, reliable data on the risks to which the business is exposed at any point in time.
Efforts are made, including by the use of plain language policy terms, to ensure there is no misalignment between what customers perceive will be paid when a policy is initially entered and what is actually paid when aclaim is made.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 124 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Insurance contracts risk management continued Risk management objectives and policies for mitigating insurance risk continued Pricing Statistical models are used which combine historical and projected data to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns.
The data used includes historical pricing and claims analysis as well as current conditions and developments in the market.
All data used is subject to rigorous verification and reconciliation processes.
Claims management Initial claim determination is managed by claims handlers with the requisite degree of experience and competence with the assistance of, where appropriate, a loss adjuster or other party with specialist knowledge.
It is the Groups policy to respond to and settle claims quickly whenever possible and to pay claims fairly, based on customers full entitlement in line with consumer and regulator expectations.
When PPOs are awarded as a result of claims made under insurance contracts, there is a risk that these may be of a high value and for a long term.
As such, management performs detailed reviews of expected PPOs throughout the claims process to identify the expected ultimate value of such claims as early as possible and reserve appropriately.
Reinsurance contracts Reinsurance contracts are used both to limit exposure to claims pervasively across the business, and specifically to limit exposure to large single claims and the accumulation of claims that arise from the same event or the accumulation of similarevents.
The Group uses excess of loss reinsurance arrangements and the effect of such arrangements is that the Group should not suffer net motor insurance losses before quota share arrangements in excess of 0.5m on any individual loss event between 1 January 2003 and 31 December 2014 subject to an aggregate deductible of 5.0m in 2014, and in excess of 1.0m on any individual loss event from 1 January 2015 onwards.
Additionally, the Group has a 50% quota share arrangement in place, applicable on all motor insurance policies incepted by AICL since 1 January 2011.
The Group also uses excess of loss reinsurance arrangements for home insurance policies, the effect of which is that the Group does not suffer total net home insurance losses of more than 0.5m on any individual event as of 1 January 2016 2016: 0.5m up to a cap of 9.3m liability per event 2016: 9.3m.
The use of reinsurance contracts does not discharge the AICLs liability as primary insurer.
If a reinsurer fails to pay a claim, AICL remains liable for the payment to the policyholder.
As part of managing reinsurance contract risk and controlling exposure to reinsurance counterparty default, the creditworthiness of reinsurers is considered on a quarterly basis by reviewing their financial strength.
In addition, management assesses the creditworthiness of all reinsurers and intermediaries by reviewing credit grades provided by rating agencies and other publicly available financial information.
The recent payment history of reinsurers is also used to update the reinsurance purchasing strategy.
The credit ratings of the Groups reinsurers are disclosed in Note 25.
Investment management Assets and liabilities are managed so as to effectively match the expected pattern of claims payments with the assets that are held to back outstanding claims liabilities.
The mix of investment between cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed to ensure that the Group has the ability to meet expected and unexpected requirements for cash.
See Note 25 for further details.
Terms and conditions of insurance contracts The terms and conditions attached to insurance contracts affect the level of insurance risk accepted.
Insurance contracts written are entered into on a standard form basis.
Insurance contracts are entered into on an annual basis and at the time of entering into a contract certain terms and conditions are negotiable or, in the case of renewals, renegotiable.
There are no embedded derivatives that are separately recognised from a host insurance contract.
Concentrations of insurance risk The exposure to concentrations of insurance risk is mitigated by a portfolio which is diversified across many different individual customers living in different parts of the UK.
Therefore, the Directors do not believe there are significant concentrations of insurance risk.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 125 5.
Segmental reporting Segments The Group has two reportable trading segments and a corporate head office, as described below.
These segments represent the principal split of business that is regularly reported to the Groups Board.
Underwriting The Underwriting segment comprises the Underwriting business which is based in Gibraltar.
It includes AICL and its investment in Conquest House Limited.
The principal activity of AICL is the underwriting of general insurance, predominantly private car insurance in the UK.
Since 2015, AICL has underwritten UK home policies under a co-insurance arrangement both as secondary insurer, and from 2017 as lead insurer.
Conquest House Limited owns property which is utilised by the Group.
Retail The principal activity of the Retail segment is the provision of insurance intermediary services to the private car, van, bike and home markets in the UK through the UK trading subsidiary Hastings Insurance Services Limited HISL, much of which is underwritten by the Underwriting segment.
Intermediary services are also provided on behalf of a panel of external third partyinsurers.
Corporate The Corporate segment comprises the combined results of the Groups head office companies, whose primary activities are as holding and finance companies.
Consolidation adjustments Consolidation adjustments comprise the adjustments required to consolidate the Groups results under IFRS, including the elimination of intercompany balances, revenue between operating segments and investments in subsidiaries.
Transactions between the Groups two reportable segments and corporate head office are recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policies and are carried out at arms length.
Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit, is a non-IFRS measure used by management and represents profit before taxation expense, finance costs, amortisation and depreciation and non-trading costs.
Segment performance The tables below present the Groups results by reportable segment: Consolidation Underwriting Retail Corporate adjustments Group Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m Net earned premiums 448.8 38.7 410.1 Other revenue 37.1 335.3 0.3 74.0 298.7 Investment and interest income 6.7 0.1 6.8 Net revenue 492.6 335.4 0.3 112.7 715.6 Net claims incurred 299.5 299.5 Other expenses 121.7 220.4 7.2 117.3 232.0 Adjusted operating profit 71.4 115.0 6.9 4.6 184.1 Amortisation and depreciation 27.0 Finance costs 8.1 Profit before tax 149.0 Included within other revenue is 104.1m recognised by the Retail segment and 0.3m recognised by the Corporate segment, arising from transactions with the Underwriting segment.
Other revenue recognised by the Underwriting segment includes 0.4m arising from transactions with the Retail segment.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 126 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Segmental reporting continued Segment performance continued Consolidation Underwriting Retail Corporate adjustments Group Year ended 31 December 2016 m m m m m Net earned premiums 359.6 24.8 334.8 Other revenue 16.8 288.5 57.0 248.3 Investment and interest income 7.0 0.2 7.2 Net revenue 383.4 288.7 81.8 590.3 Net claims incurred 260.1 260.1 Other expenses 93.0 187.5 5.0 87.4 198.1 Adjusted operating profit 30.3 101.2 5.0 5.6 132.1 Amortisation and depreciation 27.6 Finance costs 10.2 Profit before tax 94.3 Included within other revenue recognised by the Retail segment is 86.7m arising from transactions with the Underwriting segment.
Other revenue recognised by the Underwriting segment includes 0.4m arising from transactions with the Retailsegment.
Segment assets and liabilities The tables below present the Groups assets and liabilities by reportable segment as at each reporting date.
Consolidation Underwriting Retail Corporate adjustments Group As at 31 December 2017 m m m m m Goodwill 1.9 468.1 470.0 Intangible assets 60.4 27.0 87.4 Investments in subsidiaries 1,274.2 1,274.2 Investments 4.2 4.2 Property and equipment 1.7 8.6 3.9 14.2 Deferred income tax assets 2.5 0.7 3.4 6.6 Reinsurance assets 1,084.8 2.9 1,087.7 Deferred acquisition costs 30.8 0.3 31.1 Prepayments 0.5 5.3 0.1 0.6 5.3 Insurance and other receivables 410.4 307.2 12.9 309.5 421.0 Financial assets at fair value 539.6 539.6 Cash and cash equivalents 90.5 59.5 4.6 154.6 Total assets 2,162.5 445.4 1,292.5 1,082.9 2,817.5 Loans and borrowings 272.0 272.0 Insurance contract liabilities 1,688.4 22.8 1,665.6 Insurance and other payables 187.2 360.3 2.2 309.9 239.8 Deferred income tax liabilities 0.1 15.9 16.0 Current tax liabilities 2.3 9.0 0.1 11.2 Total liabilities 1,878.0 369.3 274.2 316.9 2,204.6 Total equity 284.5 76.1 1,018.3 766.0 612.9 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 127 5.
Segmental reporting continued Segment assets and liabilities continued Consolidation Underwriting Retail Corporate adjustments Group As at 31 December 2016 m m m m m Goodwill 1.9 468.1 470.0 Intangible assets 48.7 48.5 97.2 Investments in subsidiaries 1,271.0 1,271.0 Investments 4.2 4.2 Property and equipment 1.8 7.1 3.8 12.7 Deferred income tax assets 1.2 0.3 3.0 4.5 Reinsurance assets 822.3 0.3 822.0 Deferred acquisition costs 28.8 4.6 24.2 Prepayments 0.4 3.5 0.1 4.0 Insurance and other receivables 336.7 264.5 23.5 268.2 356.5 Financial assets at fair value 403.6 403.6 Cash and cash equivalents 93.8 69.2 5.0 168.0 Total assets 1,691.6 396.1 1,299.8 1,024.8 2,362.7 Loans and borrowings 286.6 286.6 Insurance contract liabilities 1,316.6 17.1 1,299.5 Insurance and other payables 150.4 325.0 0.5 277.8 198.1 Deferred income tax liabilities 0.1 18.4 18.5 Current tax liabilities 0.9 7.3 6.4 Total liabilities 1,466.2 332.3 287.1 276.5 1,809.1 Total equity 225.4 63.8 1,012.7 748.3 553.6 Underwritings investments consist of a property, Conquest House, which is leased to another Group company.
This is classified as property and equipment in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Insurance premiums Year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended 31 December 2016 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Written premiums 930.8 489.2 441.6 769.0 394.5 374.5 Unearned premiums reserve brought forward at start of the period 397.6 204.3 193.3 320.4 166.8 153.6 Unearned premiums reserve carried forward at end of the period 472.3 247.5 224.8 397.6 204.3 193.3 Total earned premiums 856.1 446.0 410.1 691.8 357.0 334.8 Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 128 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Other revenue Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Fees and commission 101.3 88.5 Ancillary product income 50.6 48.4 Premium finance interest 94.4 78.2 Reinsurance commissions 37.0 16.4 Other retail income 15.4 16.8 Total other revenue 298.7 248.3 8.
Investment and interest income Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Net fair value gains on financial assets at fair value 0.4 1.1 Other interest income 6.4 6.1 Total investment and interest income 6.8 7.2 9.
Claims incurred Year ended Year ended 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Current period 749.5 446.9 302.6 644.8 388.4 256.4 Prior periods 37.4 40.5 3.1 67.0 63.3 3.7 Total claims incurred 786.9 487.4 299.5 711.8 451.7 260.1 Current period claims relate to claim events that occurred in the current year.
Prior period claims relate to the reassessment of claim events that occurred in previous years.
Expenses Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Profit before taxation is stated after charging: Operating lease rentals buildings 1.8 0.8 Employee benefits Note 13 92.3 76.7 Other administration and distribution costs 73.0 68.7 Other expenses 167.1 146.2 Amortisation of intangible assets Note 18 24.4 24.9 Depreciation of property and equipment Note 19 2.6 2.7 Amortisation and depreciation 27.0 27.6 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 129 11.
Non-trading items Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Non-operational amortisation of intangibles recognised on acquisition 21.5 22.0 Non-trading amortisation 21.5 22.0 Non-cash unwind of fair value adjustments arising on business combination 0.3 0.6 Non-trading finance costs 0.3 0.6 Tax effect of the above non-trading items 3.9 4.1 Total non-trading items 17.9 18.5 Non-trading items are defined as expenses or earnings, together with the related tax impacts, that are not representative of the underlying activities of the Group.
These include Group reorganisation and transaction expenses, and the impact of the Goldman Sachs investment on 8 January 2014.
The Goldman Sachs transaction and associated reorganisation was accounted for as a business combination, requiring assets and liabilities to be fair valued.
The amortisation of intangibles recognised of 21.5m 2016: 22.0m and unwind of discounting in finance costs of 0.3m 2016: 0.6m are the result of these fair value adjustments.
Auditor remuneration Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Fees for audit services Group 0.1 0.1 Subsidiaries 0.3 0.2 Total fees for audit services 0.4 0.3 Fees for non-audit services Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other non-audit services 0.1 Total fees for non-audit services 0.2 0.1 Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 130 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Employee benefits Included in other operating expenses were the following employee benefits: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Salaries 76.8 66.4 Social security charges 9.1 6.5 Defined contribution pension plan costs 1.6 1.4 Share based payment charge 4.8 2.4 Total employee benefits 92.3 76.7 Staff numbers including Directors The average number of full-time equivalent staff was as follows: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Operational staff 2,383 2,177 Support staff 202 190 Total staff 2,585 2,367 Directors emoluments Information relating to Directors emoluments is disclosed within the Directors remuneration report.
Key management personnel Key management personnel compensation comprised the following: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Short term employee benefits 5.4 4.9 Post employment benefits 0.3 0.2 Share based payments 3.2 1.7 Total key management personnel compensation 8.9 6.8 14.
Finance costs Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Interest on Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility 6.8 8.6 Non-cash amortisation of loans and borrowings 0.9 0.9 Other interest expense 0.4 0.7 Total interest expense 8.1 10.2 Non-cash amortisation of loans and borrowings comprises amortisation of directly attributable transaction costs and applicable discounts, recognised under the effective interest method.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 131 15.
Taxation expense Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Current tax Corporation tax on profits for the year 26.3 19.5 Adjustments for prior years 0.1 0.3 Current taxation expense 26.4 19.2 Deferred tax Deferred taxation movement relating to temporary differences 3.9 3.1 Impact of change in the UK Corporation tax rate 0.1 Adjustments for prior years 0.2 0.1 Deferred taxation expense 4.1 3.3 Total taxation expense 22.3 15.9 The Groups tax expense mostly comprises taxation charged on the UK based Retail business profits, which attract a tax rate of19.25% 2016: 20% and the Gibraltar based Underwriting business whose profits are taxed at 10% 2016: 10%.
Effective from 1April 2017, the UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 20% to 19%, and will be reduced further to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The Gibraltar rate of tax has remained at 10% and is expected to remain at this level for the foreseeable future.
Factors affecting total taxation expense are: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 149.0 94.3 Applicable tax charge at the statutory tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20.00% : 28.7 18.9 Impact of different tax rate in Gibraltar: 10% 2016: 10% 6.0 2.1 Non-taxable income 0.8 0.7 Adjustment relating to prior periods 0.1 0.4 Impact of change in the UK corporation tax rate 0.1 Expenses and provisions not deductible for tax purposes 0.5 0.3 Total taxation expense 22.3 15.9 For the year ended 31 December 2017 the UK Corporation tax rate applicable to the Company was 19.25% 2016: 20%.
Within the tax reconciliation, the impact of the different tax rate in Gibraltar is the difference between the UK tax rate and the Gibraltar tax rate applied to the Underwriting business profits.
Non-taxable income comprises investment income arising within the Underwriting business in Gibraltar.
Expenses and provisions not deductible for tax purposes comprises disallowed expenditure such as business entertainment expenses and certain expenditure deemed capital under tax legislation.
On 19 January 2018, the Group received the outcome of the First-tier Tribunal proceedings held in November 2016, which were brought by HISL as to whether insurance intermediary supplies provided by HISL and received by AICL should be treated as outside the scope of VAT.
The First-tier Tribunal has found in favour of HISL and concluded that the VAT incurred by HISL in relation to insurance intermediary supplies provided to AICL can be recovered.
As the contested amount of VAT had already been paid, this has resulted in a VAT refund becoming due to HISL from HMRC of 10.3m in respect of the seven years ended 31 December 2015.
HISL is also in the process of submitting a revision to the VAT returns submitted for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017 in line with this ruling, which is expected to result in an additional refund becoming due.
HMRC have 56 days from 19 January 2018 within which they may lodge an appeal at the Upper Tribunal and raise protective assessments in respect of the VAT to be refunded.
The timing and quantum of the final amount of VAT recoverable is therefore subject to the result of any appeal lodged at the Upper Tribunal and HMRC review of any VAT protective assessments that have been raised.
No amount recoverable has been recognised in the Groups results as at 31 December 2017.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 132 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Taxation expense continued The Groups legal entities are subject to routine review and enquiries by tax authorities in the UK and Gibraltar.
The Group is in discussion with HMRC regarding aspects of its business model and the allocation of certain elements of its profit between the Groups operating subsidiaries.
Management have reviewed current and previous tax filings, and considered the nature of the ongoing discussion, and do not consider it appropriate to provide for any additional tax due.
The Group provides for potential tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities having taken consideration of any ongoing enquiries or reviews and based on guidance from professional firms.
The final amounts paid may differ from the amounts provided depending on the ultimate resolution of such matters, and any changes to estimates or amounts payable in respect of prior periods are reported through adjustments relating to prior periods.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
Adjusted earnings per share is a non-IFRS measure calculated by dividing net income attributable to the equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
Net income is profit after tax adjusted for non-trading items including reorganisation and transaction costs, the impact of accounting for business combinations and the related tax effect.
The Directors believe this figure provides a better indication of the Groups trading performance.
Diluted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share are calculated respectively by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent, and the net income attributable to the equity holders of the parent, by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year adjusted for the dilutive impact of unvested shares and contingently issuable shares arising from the share based payment arrangements.
Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent m 126.7 78.4 Adjusted for non-trading items: Non-trading items net of taxation impact m 17.9 18.5 Net income m 144.6 96.9 Basic weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue m 657.1 657.2 Potential Ordinary Shares and contingently issuable shares m 2.5 1.8 Weighted average number of shares adjusted for dilutive potential Ordinary Shares m 659.6 659.0 Basic earnings per share 19.3p 11.9p Non-trading items net of taxation per share 2.7p 2.8p Adjusted earnings per share 22.0p 14.7p Diluted earnings per share 19.2p 11.9p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 21.9p 14.7p Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 133 17.
Goodwill The goodwill of 470.0m arose from the acquisition of Hastings Insurance Group Limited HIG by Hastings Insurance Group Holdings plc HIG H on 8 January 2014 and was allocated between the Groups two CGUs, Underwriting and Retail, as follows: Underwriting Retail Total Cost m m m As at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017 374.8 95.2 470.0 The recoverable amount of the two CGUs has been determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on the most recent three year financial plans approved by the Directors, discounted by the Groups pre-tax discount rate of 6.9% 2016: 8.0%.
The Directors determine financial budgets based on past performance and their expectations of market and business development.
Cash flows beyond the three year plan period are extrapolated using growth rates declining to a terminal rate of 2.0%.
As the recoverable amount of each CGU is significantly higher than the cumulative total of allocated goodwill and the carrying value of the CGUs assets, the allocated goodwill is not deemed to be impaired.
Intangible assets continued Software held as at 31 December 2017 includes internally generated software carried at 5.4m 2016: 7.4m.
The Company is in the process of developing and implementing Guidewire, a state of the art, integrated end to end platform for claims, broking and billing.
The claims platform, included within software, has a carrying value of 4.2m 2016: 5.0m and a remaining useful economic life of 5 years 2016: 6 years : and work in progress includes 49.3m 2016: 38.0m of development costs for the broking and billing platform.
Property and equipment Fixtures, Property and fittings leasehold Computer and Work in Property improvements equipment equipment progress Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation As at 1 January 2016 5.9 3.5 6.0 1.6 17.0 Additions 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.1 1.6 Revaluations 0.1 0.1 Transfers 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2016 6.0 4.1 6.7 1.9 - 18.7 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 January 2016 0.5 2.1 0.7 3.3 Charge for the year 0.1 0.5 1.7 0.4 2.7 As at 31 December 2016 0.1 1.0 3.8 1.1 6.0 Net book value as at 31 December 2016 5.9 3.1 2.9 0.8 12.7 Cost or valuation As at 1 January 2017 6.0 4.1 6.7 1.9 18.7 Additions 2.0 1.8 0.2 0.2 4.2 Revaluations 0.1 0.1 Transfers 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.2 As at 31 December 2017 5.9 6.0 8.6 2.0 0.1 22.6 Accumulated depreciation As at 1 January 2017 0.1 1.0 3.8 1.1 6.0 Charge for the year 0.1 0.7 1.5 0.3 2.6 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.2 As at 31 December 2017 0.2 1.6 5.3 1.3 8.4 Net book value as at 31 December 2017 5.7 4.4 3.3 0.7 0.1 14.2 Property comprises the freehold buildings at The Old Bank, Cannon Lane, Gibraltar and Conquest House, Bexhill-on-Sea, UK.
During 2017, The Old Bank was valued by management, resulting in a revaluation loss of 0.1m being recognised during 2017.
Conquest House was valued by independent valuation experts during 2015, and managements valuation of Conquest House during the year did not result in a change to the carrying value.
If carried at cost, property would be held at 5.2m 2016: 5.2m.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 135 20.
Deferred income tax As at Recognised Recognised As at 1 January in retained in profit 31 December 2016 earnings or loss 2016 m m m m Deferred income tax assets Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 0.7 0.1 0.8 Insurance provisions 0.2 0.1 0.1 Deferred acquisition costs 2.4 0.5 2.9 Share based payments 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.7 Total deferred income tax assets 3.4 0.1 1.0 4.5 Deferred income tax liabilities Intangible assets 12.8 4.1 8.7 Deferred acquisition costs 3.7 0.9 4.6 Insurance provisions 4.0 1.1 5.1 Revaluation of property 0.1 0.1 Total deferred income tax liabilities 20.6 2.1 18.5 As at Recognised Recognised As at 1 January in retained in profit 31 December 2017 earnings or loss 2017 m m m m Deferred income tax assets Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 0.8 0.2 1.0 Insurance provisions 0.1 0.1 Deferred acquisition costs 2.9 0.2 3.1 Share based payments 0.7 0.5 1.0 2.2 Claims handling provision 0.2 0.2 Total deferred income tax assets 4.5 0.5 1.6 6.6 Deferred income tax liabilities Intangible assets 8.7 3.9 4.8 Deferred acquisition costs 4.6 1.3 5.9 Insurance provisions 5.1 0.1 5.2 Revaluation of property 0.1 0.1 Total deferred income tax liabilities 18.5 2.5 16.0 Deferred income tax assets of 1.2m have not been recognised by the Group as at 31 December 2017 in respect of tax losses 2016: 1.2m.
These tax losses do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred income tax assets have not been recognised because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise these taxlosses.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 136 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities As at 31 December 2017 As at 31 December 2016 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Claims incurred and reported 870.7 606.1 264.6 587.2 360.0 227.2 Claims incurred but not reported 322.6 234.1 88.5 314.7 257.7 57.0 Outstanding claims liabilities 1,193.3 840.2 353.1 901.9 617.7 284.2 Unearned premiums reserve 472.3 247.5 224.8 397.6 204.3 193.3 Total insurance contract liabilities 1,665.6 1,087.7 577.9 1,299.5 822.0 477.5 As at 31 December 2017 As at 31 December 2016 Reinsurers Reinsurers Gross share Net Gross share Net m m m m m m Outstanding claims liabilities brought forward at start of year 901.9 617.7 284.2 591.7 380.7 211.0 Claims paid 533.2 272.8 260.4 445.1 226.9 218.2 Movement in liabilities 824.6 495.3 329.3 755.3 463.9 291.4 Outstanding claims liabilities carried forward 1,193.3 840.2 353.1 901.9 617.7 284.2 Unearned premiums reserve brought forward at start of year 397.6 204.3 193.3 320.4 166.8 153.6 Deferral in period 930.8 489.2 441.6 769.0 394.5 374.5 in period 856.1 446.0 410.1 691.8 357.0 334.8 Release Unearned premiums reserve carried forward 472.3 247.5 224.8 397.6 204.3 193.3 Total insurance contract liabilities 1,665.6 1,087.7 577.9 1,299.5 822.0 477.5 Movement in liabilities comprise changes in outstanding claims liabilities relating to claim events in previous periods and the expected cost of current year claims.
All insurance contracts are annual policies and as such the unearned premiums reserve is released within 12 months from the reporting date.
The expected timing of the settlements for the net and gross claims liabilities are shown in Note 25.
Claims development The following table shows the development of the originally estimated gross ultimate claims liabilities relative to the current estimates of gross ultimate claims liabilities, both net of salvage and subrogation recoveries.
Claims development refers to the financial adjustment in the current accounting period relating to claims incurred in previous accounting periods because of new and more up to date information that has become available and to reflect changes in inflation.
The development is presented for each of the most recent seven accident periods and all historic periods prior to these from incorporation of the Groups underwriter in 2002 as estimated at each reporting date.
The table also shows a reconciliation of the gross outstanding claims liabilities, net of salvage and subrogation recoveries, to the gross outstanding claims liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2017.
The information is presented on an accident period basis.
The fair value acquisition adjustment relates to business combination accounting as a result of the Goldman Sachs investment described in Note 11.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 137 21.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued Claims development continued Year ended Prior 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December periods 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total m m m m m m m m m Development At end of current year 765.7 159.8 257.6 317.1 386.9 500.7 673.4 749.5 3,810.7 One year earlier 761.8 163.0 252.6 326.4 384.3 491.1 644.8 3,024.0 Two years earlier 765.2 170.6 243.2 312.0 369.4 451.7 2,312.1 Three years earlier 762.8 168.5 247.6 304.5 368.6 1,852.0 Four years earlier 753.4 177.1 254.0 306.4 1,490.9 Five years earlier 750.6 174.4 240.4 1,165.4 Six years earlier 740.3 167.2 907.5 Payments to date 739.1 157.9 216.8 262.3 322.9 353.7 371.8 253.1 2,677.6 Gross outstanding claims liabilities, net of salvage and subrogation recoveries 26.6 1.9 40.8 54.8 64.0 147.0 301.6 496.4 1,133.1 Reconciliation to gross outstanding claims liabilities Anticipated salvage and subrogation recoveries 61.9 Fair value acquisition adjustment 1.7 Gross outstanding claims liabilities 1,193.3 Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 138 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued Claims development continued The following table shows the development of the outstanding claims liabilities net of both reinsurance assets and salvage and subrogation recoveries, together with a reconciliation of these to the net outstanding claims liabilities as at 31 December 2017.
Year ended 31 31 31 31 31 31 31 Prior December December DecemberDecember December December December periods 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total m m m m m m m m m Development At end of current year 638.3 92.9 104.1 124.7 171.3 204.3 253.2 302.6 1,891.4 One year earlier 638.7 93.5 105.4 125.3 169.1 203.4 256.4 1,591.8 Two years earlier 641.1 94.4 104.9 125.2 165.5 200.6 1,331.7 Three years earlier 640.9 95.0 108.8 130.8 163.4 1,138.9 Four years earlier 637.8 97.4 114.6 136.4 986.2 Five years earlier 642.3 98.4 117.1 857.8 Six years earlier 644.4 97.4 741.8 Payments to date 635.1 92.4 102.7 117.6 152.6 171.0 179.8 117.6 1,568.8 Net outstanding claims liabilities, net of salvage and subrogation recoveries 3.2 0.5 1.4 7.1 18.7 33.3 73.4 185.0 322.6 Reconciliation to net outstanding claims liabilities Anticipated salvage and subrogation recoveries 61.9 Reinsurers share of salvage and subrogation recoveries 30.6 Fair value acquisition adjustment 0.8 Net outstanding claims liabilities 353.1 Conditions and trends that have affected the development of the liabilities in the past may or may not occur in the future, and accordingly, conclusions about future results cannot necessarily be derived from the information presented in the tables above.
Deferred acquisition costs Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Deferred acquisition costs brought forward at start of year 24.2 19.9 Additions 68.0 50.5 Recognition of acquisition costs in profit or loss 61.1 46.2 Deferred acquisition costs carried forward at end of year 31.1 24.2 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 139 23.
Insurance and other receivables As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Insurance receivables 297.7 255.7 Salvage and subrogation recoveries 61.9 46.7 Reinsurance receivables 33.3 29.7 Interest receivable 7.2 5.8 Other receivables 20.9 18.6 Total insurance and other receivables 421.0 356.5 The table below analyses insurance and other receivables between current and overdue and also analyses any provisions held.
The current portion comprises balances that are normally settled within 12 months.
Overdue amounts comprise all amounts which remain uncollected after the date by which they were contractually due to be paid in full.
Insurance Net insurance and other Provision for and other receivables impairment receivables m m m As at 31 December 2017 Current 421.5 0.7 420.8 Overdue 7.0 6.8 0.2 Total 428.5 7.5 421.0 As at 31 December 2016 Current 357.2 0.8 356.4 Overdue 5.1 5.0 0.1 Total 362.3 5.8 356.5 Movements on the Groups provision for impairment are as follows: As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Provision for impairment brought forward at start of year 5.8 4.4 Utilised during the year 3.4 2.6 Impairments recognised during the year 5.1 4.0 Total provision for impairment carried forward at end of year 7.5 5.8 24.
Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 44.0 30.9 Money market funds 94.6 119.7 Short term deposits 16.0 17.4 Total cash and cash equivalents 154.6 168.0 Cash and cash equivalents include balances of 9.5m 2016: 9.2m relating to cash and cash equivalents held on behalf of other insurers on an agency basis.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 140 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures Financial assets and liabilities The Groups financial instruments can be analysed as follows: At amortised cost The carrying values of all financial instruments carried at amortised cost are considered to be an approximation of fair value and the table below analyses these by balance sheet classification: As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Financial assets Insurance and other receivables excluding salvage and subrogation assets 359.1 309.8 Total financial assets at amortised cost 359.1 309.8 Financial liabilities Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility 272.0 286.6 Insurance and other payables excluding salvage and subrogation payables and deferred income 198.3 165.5 Total financial liabilities at amortised cost 470.3 452.1 At fair value The table below analyses financial assets carried at fair value by level within the fair value hierarchy.
Debt securities and investment funds are valued by reference to the most recent observable market trade unless there is evidence of impairment.
Where such trades are not sufficiently regular for the sales to be classified as an open market, these are classified as level 2.
As at 31 December 2017 As at 31 December 2016 Level 2 Total Level 2 Total m m m m Fair value through profit or loss Investment funds 65.7 65.7 48.5 48.5 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 65.7 65.7 48.5 48.5 Available for sale Debt securities 473.9 473.9 355.1 355.1 Total available for sale financial assets 473.9 473.9 355.1 355.1 Total financial assets at fair value 539.6 539.6 403.6 403.6 The table below analyses the movement in financial assets carried at fair value: Investment Debt funds securities Total m m m As at 1 January 2016 51.9 264.6 316.5 Net increases to the fair value of assets held recognised in profit or loss 0.9 0.2 1.1 Net increases to the fair value of assets held recognised in other comprehensive income 5.7 5.7 Net disposals additions to assets held 4.3 84.6 80.3 As at 31 December 2016 and 1 January 2017 48.5 355.1 403.6 Net increases to the fair value of assets held recognised in profit or loss 0.2 0.2 0.4 Net decreases to the fair value of assets held recognised in other comprehensive income 2.0 2.0 Net additions to assets held 17.0 120.6 137.6 As at 31 December 2017 65.7 473.9 539.6 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 141 25.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued Financial assets and liabilities continued Investment funds comprise funds with investments in debt securities, equities, derivatives and cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups investment in available for sale financial assets mainly comprises of fixed income debt securities.
Objectives, policies and procedures for managing financial risks The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets and liabilities.
The most important components of financial risk for the Group are credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will be unable to pay amounts in full as they fall due.
The Group is exposed to credit risk through reinsurance assets, financial assets and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group manages its exposure to credit risk on high liquidity investments by pursuing a strategy whereby all investments in money market funds have credit ratings of AA or above.
The credit ratings of the Groups banks are monitored on a regular basis and, where there is adverse movement, appropriate action would be determined by the Boards Risk Committee.
Investment funds and debt securities are assessed by management to ensure that the level of credit risk is acceptable, credit ratings are sufficiently strong and the investment is in line with the Groups investment policy.
The Standard & Poors or equivalent credit ratings of the underlying assets within investment funds, debt security counterparty and banks with which the Group has significant credit risk, in relation to its investments in cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value, were as follows: Cash and Debt Investment cash securities funds equivalents Total m m m m As at 31 December 2017 AAA 73.4 4.2 94.8 172.4 AA 98.8 7.2 106.0 A 178.4 18.9 42.1 239.4 BBB 123.3 12.1 17.7 153.1 Less than BBB 10.9 10.9 Rating not available 12.4 12.4 Total 473.9 65.7 154.6 694.2 As at 31 December 2016 AAA 69.0 6.0 119.9 194.9 AA 75.8 8.9 84.7 A 106.2 19.1 37.2 162.5 BBB 104.1 4.9 10.9 119.9 Less than BBB 4.8 4.8 Rating not available 4.8 4.8 Total 355.1 48.5 168.0 571.6 The Standard & Poors or equivalent credit ratings of the Groups reinsurers are analysed below: As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m AA 683.2 512.6 A 404.5 308.5 BBB 0.9 Total reinsurance assets 1,087.7 822.0 Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 142 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued Objectives, policies and procedures for managing financial risks continued Credit risk continued The Group has investment guidelines that restrict the amount of the investment portfolio that can be placed with a single counterparty.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2017 is the carrying value of financial assets at fair value and at amortised cost, reinsurance assets and cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups insurance receivables are an aggregation of small receivables and the Group uses multiple reinsurance providers to ensure that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Insurance receivables are monitored closely with a view to minimising the collection period of those items.
Since other assets such as cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value are well diversified, the Directors believe that the Group does not hold any significant concentrations of risk.
Market risk The only significant market risk to which the Group is exposed to is interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk is defined by the Group as the impact of unfavourable movements in market interest rates which could adversely affect the values of financial assets and liabilities, or reduce future cash flows arising from them.
Cash and cash equivalents are held in current accounts or in short term money market instruments.
These are generally less than 60 days in duration, considerably reducing sensitivity to significant movements in interest rates compared to longer duration assets.
The Directors consider that the exposure to interest rate risk of cash and cash equivalents balances is immaterial for the purposes of sensitivity analysis.
The carrying values of the Groups financial assets at fair value are more susceptible to movements in interest rates.
Loans and borrowings are also exposed to movements in interest rates, incurring interest at rates pegged to LIBOR.
The Group does not use derivatives or similar instruments to mitigate exposure.
A 1% increase in interest rates would have the below impact on profit after tax and equity: As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Equity 12.4 9.1 Profit after tax 1.6 1.8 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to meet obligations as they fall due.
The Group maintains significant holdings in liquid funds to mitigate this risk.
The Group makes use of regular forecasts to monitor and control its cash flow and working capital requirements.
Financial liabilities are settled in line with agreed payment terms and managed in accordance with cash availability and inflow expectations.
All financial liabilities except loans and borrowings and an amount due to a reinsurer within insurance and other payables see Note 27 are due within 12 months.
Loans and borrowings are due for repayment in 2021.
The assets backing insurance contracts and other short-term liabilities held by the Group are considered to be more liquid than the related liabilities, and the Group is in a net current asset position.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 143 25.
Financial instruments, capital management and related disclosures continued Objectives, policies and procedures for managing financial risks continued Liquidity risk continued The following table indicates the expected timing of net cash outflows resulting from insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets at the year end: 0-1 year 1-2 years Over 2 years Total m m m m As at 31 December 2017 Gross claims liabilities 589.1 345.2 619.9 1,554.2 Less reinsurance assets 282.0 185.0 574.8 1,041.8 Net cash outflows 307.1 160.2 45.1 512.4 As at 31 December 2016 Gross claims liabilities 545.4 293.3 368.1 1,206.8 Less reinsurance assets 344.8 197.1 243.4 785.3 Net cash outflows 200.6 96.2 124.7 421.5 The expected contractual undiscounted cash flows of loans and borrowings, including interest payments, assuming LIBOR stays constant, fall due as follows: 0-1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years Total m m m m As at 31 December 2017 Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility 7.5 7.3 286.8 301.6 Total 7.5 7.3 286.8 301.6 As at 31 December 2016 Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility 17.1 16.9 282.4 316.4 Total 17.1 16.9 282.4 316.4 Objectives, policies and procedures for managing capital The Groups capital is made up of total equity of 612.9m 2016: 553.6m and loans and borrowings of 272.0m 2016: 286.6m.
The Groups dividend policy seeks to redistribute excess capital to shareholders, where such capital is surplus and not being used for growth, to meet regulatory requirements, or to reduce borrowing.
The Group monitors and reviews the capital position of its two regulated trading subsidiaries, HISL and AICL, which are independently managed and required to comply with their respective external regulatory capital requirements.
AICLs objectives for managing capital are to comply with the Solvency II capital requirements: to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern: and to provide an adequate return by pricing insurance contracts commensurately with the level of risk.
AICL, as an insurance company, is subject to the provisions of the Solvency II regulations set by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and implemented by the Gibraltar Financial Services Commission.
AICL seeks to maintain a prudent threshold above the Solvency II minimum capital requirement at all times and has maintained its capital above the minimum capital requirement throughout the year.
HISL, as an insurance intermediary in the UK, is also subject to a minimum capital requirement under Financial Conduct Authority rules: it exceeded that minimum capital requirement at all times during the year.
HISL regularly reviews and monitors its capital position and seeks to maintain a prudent threshold above the minimum capital requirement at all times.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 144 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Loans and borrowings As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility 272.0 286.6 Total loans and borrowings 272.0 286.6 Current 8.9 Non-current 272.0 277.7 Total loans and borrowings 272.0 286.6 On 28 April 2017, the Group signed an amendment to the Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility agreement which replaced the previous 290m Term Loan and 20m Revolving Credit Facility with a Revolving Credit Facility to cover the entire loan commitment of 310m and remove the requirement to make repayments before the end of the facility.
In addition, the term of the facility was extended by six months, with any balance outstanding repayable in full in April 2021, and the margin above LIBOR was reduced.
The table below reconciles the movement in the Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility, which represents the Groups liabilities arising from financing.
As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m As at 1 January 286.6 295.7 Cash movement Repayment of Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility 15.0 10.0 Facility amendment fees incurred 0.5 Non-cash movement Amortisation of loans and borrowings 0.9 0.9 As at 31 December 272.0 286.6 27.
Insurance and other payables As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Amounts owed to reinsurers 102.6 89.3 Reinsurers share of salvage and subrogation recoveries 30.6 23.0 Insurance premium tax 28.0 20.5 Accrued expenses 50.6 38.4 Deferred income 10.9 9.6 Other payables 17.1 17.3 Total insurance and other payables 239.8 198.1 Current 238.2 196.5 Non-current 1.6 1.6 Total insurance and other payables 239.8 198.1 Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 145 28.
Share capital and reserves Share capital Share capital recognised as equity comprised Ordinary Shares authorised, issued and fully paid up as follows: As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Authorised, issued and fully paid up Ordinary Share capital 657,217,641 Ordinary Shares of 2p 2016: 657,217,641 13.1 13.1 Total 13.1 13.1 Merger reserve During 2015, the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Hastings Insurance Group Holdings plc HIG H, the ultimate parent company of AICL and HISL.
Both the Company and HIG H were under common control before and after the reorganisation and, as a consequence, the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the principles of predecessor accounting.
Under this method, the difference on consolidation between consideration paid and the book value of the underlying net assets acquired on the date of the reorganisation is included within the merger reserve in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other reserves Unrealised fair value movements on available for sale financial assets Note 25 and property held at revalued amounts Note19 are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated within other reserves.
Company shares acquired for the purposes of funding the Share Incentive Plan SIP are recorded within other reserves.
The Group satisfies the share awards in the SIP as described in Note 29 through the acquisition of the Companys Ordinary Shares in the market.
During the three year service period these matching shares are held by an employee benefit trust that isconsolidated within these Consolidated Financial Statements.
At 31 December 2017, the employee benefit trust held 216,740 shares 2016: 103,801 acquired at a cost of 0.3m 2016: 0.2m.
Share based payments The total charge for the share based payments recognised in the profit and loss during 2017 was 4.8m 2016: 2.4m with noimpact on the balance sheet 2016: nil.
Admission awards On 15 October 2015, certain key management personnel were granted share awards conditional upon the Company listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The awards were for a fixed value of 5.9m, payable in Ordinary Shares in two tranches, the first on 31 December 2017 and the second on 31 December 2018.
The awards were subject to a service condition that the members remain in employment by the Group until vesting date.
The awards are classified as equity settled share based payments and had a fair value of 4.9m at grant date.
On 31 December 2017, the first tranche of 3.0m vested and was net settled by issue of 468,469 Ordinary Shares of the Company on 16 January 2018.
Long Term Incentive Plan Certain management personnel are eligible to participate in the Hastings Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP giving them an option to acquire shares in the Company at an exercise price of nil.
Vesting is subject to a three year service period and the achievement of certain performance conditions in respect of total shareholder return and adjusted earnings per share over athree year period.
During 2017, 4.3m options were granted, with a fair value of 9.8m 2016: 2.4m options with a fair value of 3.4m.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 146 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Share based payments continued Awards subject to a market condition have been valued using the Monte Carlo pricing model and those not subject to a market condition have been valued using the Black Scholes model.
The model inputs are as follows: 2017 LTIP 2016 LTIP grant grant Share price at grant date 274p 172p Exercise price 0p 0p Volatility 26% 28% Average comparator volatility 29% 27% Dividend yield n a n a Risk free rate 0.18% 0.6% Expected life 3 years 3 years The expected life is the contractual life of the option adjusted to reflect managements best estimate of holder behaviour.
Volatility was determined by reference to insurance companies within the FTSE 350.
The following table details the outstanding number of options under the LTIP: Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 million million Number of share options Outstanding at 1 January 2.4 Granted during the year 4.3 2.4 Exercised during the year Forfeited during the year 0.4 Outstanding at 31 December 6.3 2.4 Exercisable at 31 December Capital Appreciation Plan On 21 December 2017, certain key management personnel were invited to participate in the Groups Capital Appreciation Plan CAP, under which they may be awarded up to five free shares in the Company for every share that they place into a trust.
The total number of awards granted was 2,252,460.
The awards are conditional upon total shareholder return over a five year period to 31 December 2022, with the number of awards dependent upon the level of return.
There is also a cap on the number of shares which may be placed in the trust by each individual.
At the end of the performance period, two thirds of shares awarded must be held for one year, at the end of which, one third of the total awarded must be held for a further year.
The awards were valued using the Monte Carlo pricing model with inputs as follows: 2017 CAP grant Share price at grant date 318p Exercise price 0p Volatility 24% Dividend yield n a Risk free rate 0.8% Expected life 5 years Share Incentive Plan The Group runs an employee Share Incentive Plan SIP under which employees are entitled to purchase each month, through a trust, shares in the Company worth up to 150.
The Group matches employee contributions up to 30 a month through free share awards, subject to a three year service period before the matching shares are awarded.
Dividends are paid on shares, including matching shares, held in the trust by means of dividend shares.
The fair value of such awards is estimated to be the market value of the awards on grant date.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 147 29.
Share based payments continued Share Incentive Plan continued As at 31 December 2017, 218,447 matching shares 2016: 103,801 were granted to employees, with an estimated fair value of 0.3m 2016: 0.2m.
The average unexpired life of SIP awards is 2.0 years 2016: 2.6 years.
Deferred Bonus On 7 April 2017, certain key management personnel were awarded 82,234 free shares in the company with a fair value of 0.2m, in lieu of a bonus, to be deferred for three years.
These were not subject to performance or service conditions.
Financial commitments The Group is committed to making the following payments in future years for land and buildings under operating leases: As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Within one year 1.8 2.0 Within two to five years 5.4 5.6 Over five years 2.6 2.6 Total operating lease commitments 9.8 10.2 The Group is committed to making the following payments in future years under other contracts in place as at the year end: As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m IT transaction and support costs Within one year 6.2 5.7 Within two to five years 4.8 7.6 IT software development costs Within one year 3.0 Computer hardware costs Within two to five years 0.3 Total other financial commitments 14.3 13.3 Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 148 | Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Subsidiaries The Companys subsidiaries are as follows: Registered Class of % Subsidiary office shares held ownership Principal activity Hastings Insurance Group Holdings plc a Ordinary 100% Holding Hastings Insurance Group Investment plc a Ordinary 100% Holding Hastings Insurance Group Layer Three Limited a Ordinary 100% Dormant Hastings Insurance Group Layer Two Limited a Ordinary 100% Dormant Hastings Insurance Group Finance plc a Ordinary 100% Holding Hastings Insurance Group Limited a Ordinary 100% Holding Advantage Global Holdings Limited b Ordinary 100% Holding Advantage Insurance Company Limited c Ordinary 100% Underwriting Conquest House Limited d Ordinary 100% Leasing of property Hastings Holdings Limited d Ordinary 100% Holding Hastings UK Limited d Ordinary 100% Holding Hastings Insurance Services Limited d Ordinary 100% Broking Renew Insurance Services Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant 1066 Direct Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant Advantage Insurance Services Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant Hastings Direct Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant Hastings Direct Accident Management Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant Peoples Choice Europe Limited d Ordinary 100% Dormant Held indirectly The registered offices of the Companys subsidiaries are as follows: a 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 0BD b Nemours Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, VG1110 c Suite 23, Portland House, Glacis Road, Gibraltar d Conquest House, 32-34 Collington Avenue, Bexhill-on-Sea, East Sussex, TN39 3LW, UK The Company holds 100% of the voting rights of both its directly and indirectly owned subsidiaries.
The Company does not have any other significant holdings.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 149 32.
Related party transactions The Group undertakes transactions with related parties in the normal course of business and all transactions with related parties are made on normal, arms length, commercial terms.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group entered into the following related party transactions: the Group was charged 0.5m in fees by Goldman Sachs Asset Management International, a subsidiary of a company withsignificant influence 2016: 0.5m.
At 31 December 2017, 0.1m was outstanding 2016: 0.1m : the Group was charged 0.1m by Eclipse Resources Limited for the provision of key management personnel services 2016:0.3m.
There was no outstanding balance as at 31 December 2017: and the Group was charged 0.1m by OUTsurance Shared Services Limited, a subsidiary of a company with significant influence, for the provision of insurance intermediary support services 2016: nil.
There was an outstanding balance of 0.1m as at 31December 2017.
In addition to the remuneration disclosed in Note 13, during the year key management personnel received a further allocation of interests in Hastings Holdco Limited, a former parent company, under the legacy Management Incentive Plan MIP in accordance with the rules of the MIP.
The allocation was of previously unallocated interests held by a legacy Employee Benefit Trust.
Hastings Holdco Limited and its subsidiary, Hastings Investco Limited, were subsequently liquidated, and the total value of these additional interests, which were satisfied in cash and shares in the Company, was 10.1m.
Dividends A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2016 amounting to 43.4m or 6.6p per share was paid on 31 May 2017 2016: 14.5m.
On 8 August 2017, the Board declared an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 of 4.1p per share, totalling 26.9m, which was paid on 10 November 2017.
On 28 February 2018, the Board proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 of 8.5p per share, amounting to 55.9m and payable subject to shareholder approval.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc
