Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 159 Glossary 4Cs Net claims incurred Colleagues, customers, company and community.
The Groups Net claims incurred represents claims expensed in the period cultural approach that shapes decision making processes and less the portion of claims covered by the Groups reinsurers.
Net earned premiums Accident year loss ratio Net earned premiums represents gross earned premiums Accident year loss ratio is defined as net claims incurred in the after deducting earned premiums ceded to reinsurers.
period divided by net earned premiums.
Net written premiums Calendar year loss ratio Gross written premiums less the portion of written premiums Calendar year loss ratio is the accident year loss ratio adjusted ceded to the Groups panel of reinsurers.
to include the impact of prior year development of claims and PPO reserves.
Ogden rate The Ogden rate is a discount rate set by the Lord Chancellor Claims reserves and used by UK courts in the calculation of lump sum The Groups technical claims reserves represent the estimated settlement awards.
ultimate cost of its exposure to claims and expenses against business which was previously underwritten.
Co-insurance An agreement between more than one insurer to PPOs underwrite an insurance contract.
Each co-insurer receives Periodic payment orders: these are a type of compensation a pre-determined portion of the benefit and risk from the award, in existence in the UK since 2005, in respect of underwritten contract.
Instead of paying a claimant a single lump sum, PPOs involve making a series of Combined operating ratio regular payments to pay for the individuals care costs for the Combined operating ratio is the sum of the calendar year loss rest of his or her life.
Profit commission Expense ratio Performance based payments from reinsurers based on Expense ratio is a measure of incurred operational and contractual performance targets.
acquisition expenses, net of certain reinsurance commissions, expressed relative to net earned premiums.
Reinsurance Agreement with a panel of insurers whereby the Group Group mitigates its risk of losses from claims by transmitting a portion The combined operations of Hastings Group Holdings plc and of risk in exchange for a portion of premium.
The Group utilises its subsidiaries.
reinsurance on a quota share basis a percentage share of premiums, claims and expenses and excess of loss basis Gross earned premiums fullreinsurance for claims over an agreed value.
Gross written premiums in the current and prior periods Retail recognised over the life of the underlying insurance contracts.
The Groups Retail business, Hastings Insurance Services Limited HISL, trading as Hastings Direct, based in Bexhill-on-Sea, UK.
Gross written premiums Total premiums the Group expects to receive over the life Underwriting of insurance contracts underwritten by Underwriting.
This is before ceding to the Groups reinsurers their share of The Groups Underwriting business, Advantage Insurance premiums and includes the Groups portion of premiums Company Limited AICL, based in Gibraltar.
LCP Live customer policies: i. e. the number of active policies.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc
