Annual Report & Accounts 2017 98 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 1 Corporate information Hochschild Mining plc hereinafter the Company is a public limited company incorporated on 11 April 2006 under the Companies Act 1985 as a Limited Company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 05777693.
The Companys registered office is located at 17 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PH, United Kingdom.
The ultimate controlling party of the Company is Mr Eduardo Hochschild whose beneficial interest in the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group or Hochschild Mining Group is held through Pelham Investment Corporation, a Cayman Islands company.
On 8 November 2006, the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups principal business is the mining, processing and sale of silver and gold.
The Group has three operating mines Arcata, Pallancata and Inmaculada located in southern Peru and one operating mine San Jose located in Argentina.
The Group also has a portfolio of projects located across Peru, Argentina, Mexico and Chile at various stages of development.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2018.
The Groups subsidiaries are as follows: Equity interest at 31 December Country of 2017 2016 Company Principal activity incorporation % % 1 Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation S. A.
Holding company Argentina 100 100 2 MH Argentina S. A.
Exploration office Argentina 100 100 1, 8 Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
Production of gold and silver Argentina 51 51 3 Minera Hochschild Chile S. C. M. Exploration office Chile 100 100 3 Andina Minerals Chile Ltd. Exploration office Chile 100 100 4 Southwest Minerals Yunnan Inc. Exploration office China 100 100 5 Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales 100 100 5 Hochschild Mining Ares UK Limited Administrative office England and Wales 100 100 4 Southwest Mining Inc. Exploration office Mauritius 100 100 4 Southwest Minerals Inc. Exploration office Mauritius 100 100 6 Minera Hochschild Mexico, S. A. fide C. V Exploration office Mexico 100 100 4 Hochschild Mining Peru S. A.
Holding company Peru 100 100 4 Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Production of gold and silver Peru 100 100 4 Compaa Minera Arcata S. A.
Production of gold and silver Peru 99.1 99.1 4 Empresa fide Transmisin Aymaraes S. A. C. Power transmission Peru 100 100 4 Minera Antay S. A. C. Exploration office Peru 100 100 7 Hochschild Mining US Inc. Holding company USA 100 100 1 R egistered address: Av.
Santa Fe 2755, floor 9, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
2 Registered address: Sargento Cabral 124, Comodoro Rivadavia, Provincia fide Chubut, Argentina.
Apoquindo 4775, office 1002, Santiago fide Chile, Chile.
4 Registered address: La Colonia 180, Santiago fide Surco, Lima, Peru.
5 Registered address: 17 Cavendish Square, London, W1G0PH, United Kingdom.
6 Registered address: Bustamante N 2106, Col Altavista, CP 31200, Chihuahua, Ciudad fide Mexico, Mexico.
7 Registered address: 1025 Ridgeview Dr. 300, Reno, Nevada 89519, USA.
8 T he Group has a 51% interest in Minera Santa Cruz S. A. while the remaining 49% is held by a non-controlling interest.
The significant financial information in respect of this subsidiary before intercompany eliminations as at and for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 is as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Non-current assets 184,852 216,124 Current assets 103,792 107,196 Non-current liabilities 62,745 83,823 Current liabilities 44,726 57,837 Equity 181,173 181,660 Revenue 227,094 235,961 Profit for the year and total comprehensive income 25,147 35,262 Net cash generated from operating activities 58,308 102,923 Net cash used in investing activities 36,199 35,221 Cash flow used in financing activities 17,884 44,655 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated income statement, non-controlling interest in the consolidated statement of financial position, and dividends declared to non-controlling interests in the consolidated statement of changes in equity are solely related to Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 99 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information 2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and the Companies Act 2006.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 are set out below.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments that are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period, as explained below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied, except for the effects of the adoption of new and amended accounting standard.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars US$ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Details of the factors which have been taken into account in assessing the Groups going concern status are set out within the Directors Report.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statement for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Amendments to standards and interpretations which came into force during the year did not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements and are as follows: IAS 7 Statement of cash flows, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 The amendments require entities to provide disclosures about changes in their liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes.
The adoption of these amendments would not have an impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
The Group has provided the information for the current year in note 25.
IAS 12 Income Taxes, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 The amendments clarify the accounting for deferred tax assets for unrealised losses on debt instruments measured at fair value.
Entities are required to apply the amendments retrospectively.
The adoption of these rules did not have a significant impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been previously adopted by the Group Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 or later periods but which the Group has not previously adopted.
Those that are applicable to the Group are as follows: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 The IASB has issued a new standard for the recognition of revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
The new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer.
The Group has evaluated recognition and measurement of revenue based on the five-step model in IFRS 15 and has not identified significant financial impacts, hence no adjustments will be recorded derived from the adoption of IFRS 15 other than certain reclassifications as explained below.
The Group will adopt the new standard from 1 January 2018 applying the simplified transition method and modified retrospective approach.
Certain disclosures will change as a result of the requirements of IFRS 15.
The key issues identified, and the Groups views and perspective are set below.
These are based on the Groups current interpretation of IFRS 15 and may be subject to changes as interpretations evolve more generally.
Furthermore, the Group is considering and will continue to monitor any further development.
Embedded derivatives arising from the sales: As discussed in note 2 p, some of the Groups sales of gold and silver contain provisional pricing features which are currently considered to be embedded derivatives recorded within sales.
Under IAS 18, revenue is recognised at the estimated fair value of the total consideration received or receivable when the gold and silver is delivered, which is usually when title has passed to the customer.
The fair value is based on the most recent determined estimate of metal content and the estimated forward price that the entity expects to receive at the end of the quotational period stipulated in the contract.
The revaluation of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
IFRS 15 will not change the assessment of the provisional price adjustment, however as they are not considered within the scope of IFRS 15, the Group will account for these in accordance with IFRS 9.
Therefore, subsequent changes in fair value will be recognised in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income as part of other income other expenses.
Impact of shipping terms: The Group sells a portion of its production on CIF Incoterms and therefore the Group is responsible for shipping services after the date at which control of the gold and silver passes to the customer.
Under IAS 18, these shipping services are currently not considered to be part of the revenue transaction and thus the Group has disclosed them as selling expenses.
However, under IFRS 15 the Group should reclassify the portion of those selling expenses relating to transport of gold and silver from the Groups production plants to the ports and reclassify those costs to cost of sales.
The Group estimates that approximately US$4,800,000 would be reclassified from selling expenses to cost of sales, based on 2017 figures.
In addition, the Group needs to assess the amount of remaining costs related to shipping services which are considered a separate performance obligation under IFRS 15 and therefore a portion of the revenue currently recognised when the title has passed to the customer will need to be deferred and recognised as the shipping services are subsequently provided.
Based on the analysis performed during 2017, the Group determined that the overall impact on the timing of revenue recognition related to these shipping services will not be material and consequently such revenue will not be disclosed separately.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 100 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
Based on the assessment performed, the Group expects the new guidance to have the following impacts on the classification and measurement of its financial instruments: Classification and measurement of the embedded derivatives arising from sales: The financial assets and liabilities arising from the revaluation provisional priced contracts is currently disclosed separately in the balance sheet as part of other financial assets liabilities.
Under IFRS 9, the embedded derivative will no longer be separated from the host contract and therefore the revaluation of provisionally priced contracts will be disclosed within the receivable of the host contract in trade and other receivables.
Available-for sale financial assets: The equity instruments that are currently classified as available-for-sale financial assets satisfy the conditions for classification as at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI and therefore there is no impact in classification.
However, as opposed to the current IFRSs, under IFRS 9 gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are not recycled to the income statement.
Furthermore, under IFRS 9 there is no exception to carry investments in entities at costs less any recognised impairment and therefore, fair value will need to be calculated.
There are no other significant changes to the accounting treatment of these assets.
Impairment: The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses ECL rather than only incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39.
The Group will apply the simplified approach and record lifetime expected losses on all trade receivables.
However, given the short-term nature of the Groups receivables, these are not expected to have a significant impact in the financial statements.
Disclosures: The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in presentation.
These are expected to change the nature and extent of the Groups disclosures about its financial instruments particularly in the year of the adoption of the new standard.
The Group has also assessed other changes introduced by IFRS 9 that will have no impacts in the financial statements as explained below: The Group does not expect any impact on the accounting for financial liabilities, as the new requirements of IFRS 9 only affect the accounting for financial liabilities that are designated at fair value through profit or loss and the Group does not have any such liabilities.
The Group does not currently apply hedge accounting and therefore there are no impacts in the financial statements.
No impacts are expected in relation to derecognition of financial instruments as the same rules have been transferred from IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 16 Leases, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 specifies how an IFRS reporter will recognise, measure, present and disclose leases.
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with IFRS 16s approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17.
The Group is analysing the adoption of this new standard and expected not to have a significant impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The amendments are related to the classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions and it does not require to restate prior periods.
The adoption of these amendments would not have a significant impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRIC 23 clarifies the accounting for uncertainties in income taxes.
This interpretation is to be applied to the determination of taxable profit tax loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments under IAS 12.
The Interpretation specifically addresses the following: Whether an entity considers uncertain tax treatments separately The assumptions an entity makes about the examination of tax treatments by taxation authorities How an entity determines taxable profit tax loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates How an entity considers changes in facts and circumstances The interpretation is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, but certain transition reliefs are available.
The Group will apply interpretation from its effective date, however we do not expect significant impacts on the financial statements on the implementation as the Groups current treatment is in line with the requirements of the interpretation.
The Group is analysing the effect of the standards and plans to adopt the new standards on the required effective date.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 101 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information b Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve the use of judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the financial statements.
Significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Significant estimates: Useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes note 2 e. Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets.
For depreciation calculated under the unit-of-production method, estimated recoverable reserves and resources are used in determining the depreciation and or amortisation of mine-specific assets.
This results in a depreciation amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the anticipated remaining life-of-mine production.
Each items life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves and resources of the mine property at which the asset is located.
These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions, including the amount of recoverable reserves and resources.
Changes are accounted for prospectively.
Ore reserves and resources note 2 g. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and resources.
Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and resources and may, ultimately, result in the reserves and resources being restated.
Recoverable values of mining assets notes 2 i, 16, 17 and 18.
The value of the Groups mining assets are sensitive to a range of characteristics unique to each mine unit.
Key sources of estimation for all assets include uncertainty around ore reserve estimates and cash flow projections.
In performing impairment reviews, the Group assesses the recoverable amount of its operating assets principally with reference to fair value less costs of disposal, assessed using discounted cash flow models.
There is judgement involved in determining the assumptions that are considered to be reasonable and consistent with those that would be applied by market participants.
Key judgements include the estimation of future gold and silver prices, future capital requirements, exploration potential, operating performance and the application of discount rates which reflect the macro-economic risk in Peru and Argentina as applicable.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment, evaluation and exploration assets, and intangibles.
Mine closure costs notes 2 m and 26 1.
The Group assesses its mine closure cost provision annually.
Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at the balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required.
Liability for cash-settled share-based payments notes 26 2.
The Group initially measures the cost of cash-settled transactions with employees using the Monte Carlo model to determine the fair value of the liability incurred.
The liability needs to be remeasured at the end of each reporting period up to the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised in the profit or loss.
This requires a reassessment of the estimates used at the end of each reporting period, including the anticipated potential changes to the Total Shareholder Return TSR performance, the number of participants in the plan, and levels of interest rates.
The assumptions and models used for estimating fair value are discussed in note 26 2.
Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
Judgement is also required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Provisions are also made for uncertain exposures which can have an impact on both deferred and current tax.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained and tax provisions are made if it is probable that a liability will arise refer to note 34 a.
The final resolution of these transactions may give rise to material adjustments to the income statement and or cash flow in future periods.
The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit each period to assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 102 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Critical judgements: Determination of functional currencies note 2 d. The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Recognition of evaluation and exploration assets and transfer to development costs notes 2 f, 16 and 17.
Judgement is required in determining when the future economic benefit of a project can reasonably be regarded as assured, at which point evaluation and exploration expenses are capitalised.
This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs: the timing of the end of the exploration phase, the start of the development phase: and the commencement of the production phase.
For this purpose, the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured when the Board authorises management to conduct a feasibility study, mine-site exploration is being conducted to convert resources to reserves, or mine-site exploration is being conducted to confirm resources, all of which are based on supporting geological information.
Significant judgement and assumptions for assets classified as held for sale note 23.
To determine whether an asset should be classified as an asset held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, consideration should be given as to whether the sale is highly probable.
The three main criteria are: There is a plan in place to sell the asset, the sale is due to complete within 12 months of the year end: and that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or the sale withdrawn.
As disclosed in note 23, despite the final payment date for the sale of San Felipe property being within 12 months, all the three criteria to be considered highly probable as defined by IFRS 5 have not been met and therefore the property has not been classified as an asset held for sale.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position, performance and cash flows as at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 and for the years then ended, respectively.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group regardless of the amount of shares owned by the Group.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Non-controlling interests rights to safeguard their interest are fully considered in assessing whether the Group controls a subsidiary.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
To support this presumption and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: the contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee: rights arising from other contractual arrangements: and the Groups voting rights and potential voting rights.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction, affecting retained earnings.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest NCI : iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of the consideration received: v recognises the fair value of any investment retained: vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: and vii reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
An NCI represents the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated statement of financial position, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributable to the NCI even if that results in a deficit balance.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any NCI in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of NCI, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets, is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the NCI, and any previously interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets meeting either the contractual-legal or the separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition date fair value can be measured reliably.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 103 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information d Currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For the holding companies and operating entities this currency is US dollars and for the other entities it is the local currency of the country in which it operates.
The Groups financial information is presented in US dollars, which is the Companys functional currency.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are initially recorded in the functional currency using the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are remeasured at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions which are translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or on the translation of monetary assets and liabilities which are translated at period-end exchange rates, are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising from monetary items that are part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in equity and transferred to income on disposal of such net investment.
Subsidiary financial statements expressed in their corresponding functional currencies are translated into US dollars by applying the exchange rate at period-end for assets and liabilities and the transaction date exchange rate for income statement items.
The resulting difference on consolidation is included as cumulative translation adjustment in equity.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost comprises its purchase price and directly attributable costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Economical and physical conditions of assets have not changed substantially over this period.
The cost less residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves and resources of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of production on a units-of-production basis for mine buildings and installations and plant and equipment used in the mining production process, or charged directly to the income statement over the estimated useful life of the individual asset on a straight-line basis when not related to the mining production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect units-of-production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
An assets carrying amount is written-down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the net proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within other income expenses, in the income statement.
The expected useful lives under the straight-line method are as follows: Years Buildings 3 to 33 Plant and equipment 5 to 10 Vehicles 5 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to be ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are expensed where incurred.
For borrowings associated with a specific asset, the actual rate on that borrowing is used.
Otherwise, a weighted average cost of borrowing is used.
The Group capitalises the borrowing costs related to qualifying assets with a value of US$1,000,000 or more, considering that the substantial period of time to be ready is six or more months.
Mining properties and development costs Purchased mining properties are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
Costs associated with developments of mining properties are capitalised.
Mine development costs are, upon commencement of commercial production, depreciated using the units-of-production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves and resources to which they relate.
When a mine construction project moves into the production stage, the capitalisation of certain mine construction costs ceases and costs are either regarded as part of the cost of inventory or expensed, except for costs which qualify for capitalisation relating to mining asset additions or improvements, underground mine development or mineable reserve development.
In addition, the revenue generated for the sale of the inventory produced during the pre-operating stage is recognised as a deduction of the costs capitalised for this project.
Construction in progress and capital advances Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
Once the asset moves into the production phase, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
Subsequent expenditure Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is capitalised separately with the carrying amount of the component being written-off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised if future economic benefits will arise from the expenditure.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditures are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 104 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued f Evaluation and exploration assets Evaluation and exploration expenses are capitalised when the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured.
Projects in the development phase Exploration and evaluation costs are capitalised as assets from the date that the Board authorises management to conduct a feasibility study.
Expenditure is transferred to mine development costs once the work completed to date supports the future development of the property and such development receives appropriate approval.
Identification of resources Costs incurred in converting inferred resources to indicated and measured resources of which reserves are a component are capitalised as incurred.
Costs incurred in identifying inferred resources are expensed as incurred.
g Determination of ore reserves and resources The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by internal competent persons.
Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year and are stated in conformity with the 2012 Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
It is the Groups policy to have the report audited by a Competent Person.
Reserves and resources are used in the units-of-production calculation for depreciation as well as the determination of the timing of mine closure cost and impairment analysis.
h Intangible assets Right to use energy of transmission line Transmission line costs represent the investment made by the Group during the period of its use.
This is an asset with a finite useful life equal to that of the mine to which it relates and that is amortised applying the units-of-production method for that mine.
Water permits Water permits represent the cost that allow the holder to withdraw a specified amount of water from the ground for reasonable, beneficial uses.
This is an asset with an indefinite useful life.
Legal rights Legal rights correspond to expenditures required to give the Group the right to use a property for the surface exploration work, development and production.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are primarily computer software which are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful life of three years.
i Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether the carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such review is undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash-generating unit level.
The assessment requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit CGU exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their value in use VIU and fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD to sell.
FVLCD is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
VIU is based on estimated future cash flows discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable values of the CGU are determined using a FVLCD methodology.
FVLCD was determined using a combination of Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to construct a discounted cash flow model to estimate the amount that would be paid by a willing third party in an arms length transaction.
Reversal of impairment An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 105 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information j Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The cost of work in progress and finished goods ore inventories is based on the cost of production.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
k Trade and other receivables Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable which on average, do not exceed 30 days.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount and this difference is recognised in the income statement.
l Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Any excess above the par value of shares received upon issuance of those shares is classified as share premium.
In the case the excess above par value is available for distribution, it is classified as merger reserve and then transferred to retained earnings.
m Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Mine closure cost Provisions for mine closure costs are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates and operating lives.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the statement of financial position by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised.
If, for mature mines, the related mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, that portion of the increase is charged directly to the income statement.
Similarly, for reductions to the estimated costs exceeding the carrying value of the mine asset, that portion of the decrease is credited directly to the income statement.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Workers profit sharing and other employee benefits In accordance with Peruvian legislation, companies in Peru must provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 8% of taxable income of each year.
This amount is charged to the income statement within personnel expenses note 10 and is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
The Group has no pension or retirement benefit schemes.
Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow of resources for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
n Share-based payments Cash-settled transactions The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability over the vesting period of the awards.
Movements in that liability between reporting dates are recognised as personnel expenses.
The fair value of the awards is taken to be the market value of the shares at the date of award adjusted by a factor for anticipated relative TSR performance.
Fair values are subsequently remeasured at each reporting date to reflect the number of awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR performance.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in other reserves in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that vest.
The income statement expense for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period and is recognised in personnel expenses note 10. o Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements and are disclosed in notes to the financial statements unless their occurrence is remote.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements, but are disclosed in the notes if their recovery is deemed probable.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 106 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued p Revenue recognition The Group is involved in the production and sale of gold and silver from dor and concentrate containing both gold and silver.
Dor bars are either sold directly to customers or are sent to a third party for further refining into gold and silver before they are sold.
Concentrate is sold directly to customers.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue associated with the sale of gold and silver from dor and concentrate is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has passed to the customer.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
The revenue is subject to adjustment based on inspection of the product by the customer.
Revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained gold and silver.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, certain sales are provisionally priced where the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period, normally ranging from 15 to 90 days after the start of the delivery process to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met, using market prices at that date.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract at each reporting date.
The provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract until the quotational period ends.
The selling price of gold and silver can be measured reliably as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges.
Income from services provided to related parties note 30 is recognised in revenue when services are provided.
Deferred revenue results when cash is received in advance of revenue being earned.
Deferred revenue is recorded as a liability until it is earned.
Once earned, the liability is reduced and revenue is recorded.
The Group analyses when revenue is earned or deferred.
q Finance income and costs Finance income and costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest income on funds invested, unwind of discount, gains and losses from the change in fair value of derivative instruments and gains and losses on the disposal of available-for-sale investments.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
r Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
s Uncertain tax positions An estimates tax liability is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Separate provisions for interest and penalties are also recorded if appropriate.
Movements in interest and penalty amounts in respect of tax provisions are not included in the tax charge, but are disclosed in the income statement.
Tax provisions are based on managements interpretation of country specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
This involves a significant amount of judgement as tax legislation can be complex and open to different interpretation.
Management uses in-house tax experts, professional firms and previous experience when assessing tax risks.
Where actual tax liabilities differ from the provisions, adjustments are made which can have a material impact on the Groups profits for the year.
Refer to note 34 a for specific tax contingencies.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 107 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information t Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
The depreciation policy for leased assets is consistent with that for similar assets owned.
A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
u Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as loans or borrowings, receivables, payables, financial instruments fair valued through profit and loss, available-for-sale financial assets or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge refer to note 2 y, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end.
When financial assets and liabilities are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss and borrowings, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative when the entity first becomes a party to it.
The embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract if it is not measured at fair value through profit or loss and when the economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Reassessment only occurs if there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way transactions require delivery and receipt of assets within the timeframe generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss includes financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit and loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments or a financial guarantee contract.
Gains or losses on financial assets held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the statement of financial position date.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Available-for-sale financial assets For available-for-sale AFS financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost, where significant is estimated to be around 30% of the original cost of the investment and prolonged is more than 12 months.
In addition, the Group analyses any case taking into account the portfolio of projects of the investee, the key technical personnel and the viability of the investee to finance its projects.
If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 108 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial instruments A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised when: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: and either: a the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset: or b the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, a new asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset, is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
A financial liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
v Dividend distribution Dividends on the Companys ordinary shares are recognised when they have been appropriately authorised and are no longer at the Companys discretion.
Accordingly, interim dividends are recognised when they are paid and final dividends are recognised when they are declared following approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
w Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at cost.
For the purposes of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents, as defined above, are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Liquidity funds are classified as cash equivalents if the amount of cash that will be received is known at the time of the initial investment and the risk of changes in value is considered insignificant.
x Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, need to be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement to enable a better understanding of the financial performance of the Group and facilitate comparison with prior years.
Exceptional items mainly include: impairments or write-offs of assets, assets held for sale, property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets: gains or losses arising on the disposal of subsidiaries, investments or property, plant and equipment: any gain or loss resulting from restructuring within the Group: taxes and interests owed by the Group following a change in circumstances surrounding tax disputes, resulting in the exposure being assessed as probable: the impact of infrequent labour action related to work stoppages in mine units: the penalties generated by the early termination of agreements with providers of the Group: the reversal of an accumulation of prior years tax expenses that resulted from an agreement with the government: and the related tax impact of the above items.
y Hedging The Group used commodity swaps and zero cost collar contracts to hedge certain of its cash flows from product sales against price risk.
These derivative financial instruments were initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract was entered into and were subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The fair value of these forward contracts was determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
These forward contracts were classified as cash flow hedges as they were hedging the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that was attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast sales transaction.
At the inception of a hedging relationship, the Group formally designated and documented the hedge relationship to which the Group wished to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation included identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity would assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges were expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and were assessed on an ongoing basis to determine their effectiveness in the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Where the commodity forward contracts meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument was recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion was recognised immediately in the income statement.
In the case of zero cost collar contracts, the time value had to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, in consequence the change in the time value would be recognised in the income statement.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 109 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Amounts taken to equity were transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affected profit or loss, such as when the forecast transaction occurred.
If the forecast sales transaction was no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity were transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expired or was sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge was revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast sales transaction occurred.
z Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments such as derivatives and non-financial assets at fair value at each statement of financial position date.
Also, fair values of financial instruments are measured at amortised cost.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: in the principal market for the asset or liability: or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, as described in note 36 e. For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis at fair value, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
The Group determines the policies and procedures for both recurring fair value measurement and unquoted AFS financial assets, and for non-recurring measurement.
At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the values of assets and liabilities which are required to be remeasured or reassessed as per the Groups accounting policies.
For this analysis, the Group verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents.
The Group, in conjunction with its external valuers, where applicable, also compares each of the changes in the fair value of each asset and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change is reasonable.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 110 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Segment reporting The Groups activities are principally related to mining operations which involve the exploration, production and sale of gold and silver.
Products are subject to the same risks and returns and are sold through similar distribution channels.
The Group undertakes a number of activities solely to support mining operations including power generation and services.
Transfer prices between segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to that used for third parties.
Segment revenue, segment expense and segment results include transfers between segments at market prices.
Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
For internal reporting purposes, management takes decisions and assesses the performance of the Group through consideration of the following reporting segments: Operating units Arcata and San Jose, which generate revenue from the sale of gold, silver, dor and concentrate Operating unit Pallancata, which generates revenue from the sale of concentrate Operating unit Inmaculada, which generates revenue from the sale of gold, silver and dor Exploration, which explores and evaluates areas of interest in brownfield and greenfield sites with the aim of extending the life-of-mine of existing operations and to assess the feasibility of new mines.
The exploration segment includes costs charged to the profit and loss and capitalised as assets Other includes the profit or loss generated by Empresa fide Transmisin Aymaraes S. A. C. a power transmission company that absorbed Empresa fide Transmisin Callalli S. A. C. on 1 June 2016 The Groups administration, financing, other activities including other income and expense, and income taxes are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to operating segments.
Segment information is consistent with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Management evaluates the financial information based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union.
The Group measures the performance of its operating units by the segment profit or loss that comprises gross profit, selling expenses and exploration expenses.
Segment assets include items that could be allocated directly to the segment.
3 Includes depreciation capitalised in the Crespo project US$831,000, and San Jose unit US$2,290,000.
4 N ot reportable assets are comprised of available-for-sale financial assets of US$6,264,000, other receivables of US$45,344,000, other financial assets of US$2,591,000, income tax receivable of US$21,241,000, deferred income tax asset of US$2,400,000 and cash and cash equivalents of US$256,988,000.
3 Includes depreciation capitalised in the Crespo project US$2,215,000, San Jose unit US$2,640,000, Arcata unit US$117,000 and the Pallancata unit US$3,000.
4 N ot reportable assets are comprised of available-for-sale financial assets of US$991,000, other receivables of US$57,016,000, income tax receivable of US$20,988,000, deferred income tax asset of US$1,027,000 and cash and cash equivalents of US$139,979,000.
b Geographical information The revenue for the period based on the country in which the customer is located is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 External customer USA 370,035 225,073 Peru 45,274 78,248 Canada 60,991 181,569 Germany 34,777 4,506 Switzerland 73,186 89,838 1 United Kingdom 1,689 Korea 102,596 92,769 Bulgaria 27,211 16,334 Japan 8,502 1,594 Total 722,572 688,242 Inter-segment Peru 5,712 2,062 Total 728,284 690,304 1 Corresponds to the realised loss on the silver zero cost collar contract with JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch, settled on 30 December 2016 refer to note 5.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 112 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Segment reporting continued In the periods set out below, certain customers accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups total revenues as detailed in the following table: Year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended 31 December 2016 US$000 % Revenue Segment US$000 % Revenue Segment Asahi Refining USA 130,024 18% Inmaculada 30,304 4% Arcata Republic Metals Corporation 116,274 16% Inmaculada and San Jose 103,405 15% Arcata, Inmaculada and San Jose LS Nikko 102,596 14% Pallancata and San Jose 92,769 14% Pallancata and San Jose Asahi Refining Canada Ltd. 17,492 2% Inmaculada 160,312 23% Arcata and Inmaculada Auramet Trading Llc.
53,585 7% Inmaculada 97,616 14% Arcata and Inmaculada Non-current assets, excluding financial instruments and deferred income tax assets, were allocated to the geographical areas in which the assets are located as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Peru 782,659 850,605 Argentina 182,139 196,056 Mexico 38,841 30,990 Chile 63,970 63,196 Total non-current segment assets 1,067,609 1,140,847 Available-for-sale financial assets 6,264 991 Trade and other receivables 7,487 25,717 Other financial assets 1,333 Deferred income tax assets 2,400 1,027 Total non-current assets 1,085,093 1,168,582 4 Disposals of subsidiaries HMX S. A. fide C. V. On 22 February 2016 the Group sold its Mexican subsidiary HMX S. A. fide C. V. to Sergio Salinas and Servicios fide Integracin Fiscal S. A. fide C. V. for nil consideration.
The carrying value of the net assets disposed was US$60,000 and the transaction resulted in a loss of US$60,000.
Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy On 17 May 2016 the Group transferred all its rights over its non-for-profit subsidiary Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy to Inversiones ASPI S. A. ASPI, recognising a gain on disposal of US$811,000.
The gain on disposal was determined as follows: US$000 Cash consideration 1,100 Assets and liabilities disposed: Cash and cash equivalents 293 Other payables 4 Net assets disposed 289 Gain on disposal 811 US$000 Net cash inflow arising on disposal Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 1,100 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of: 293 807 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 113 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information 5 Revenue Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Gold from dor bars 266,214 263,010 Silver from dor bars 144,762 177,450 Gold from concentrate 106,101 91,348 Silver from concentrate 205,080 156,075 Services 415 359 Total 722,572 688,242 Included within revenue is a gain of US$2,578,000 relating to provisional pricing adjustments representing the change in the fair value of embedded derivatives 2016: loss of US$6,667,000 arising on sales of concentrates and dor refer to note 2 p and footnote 1 of note 36 e. In 2016, revenue includes realised loss on gold and silver swaps and zero cost collar contracts of US$18,722,000 gold: US$10,030,000, silver: US$8,692,000.
Other sources of revenue are disclosed in note 13.
6 Cost of sales Included in cost of sales are: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 1 Depreciation and amortisation in cost of sales 196,150 180,317 Personnel expenses note 10 124,507 103,130 Mining royalty note 30 6,677 7,506 Change in products in process and finished goods 4,131 6,487 2 Other items 3,241 1,750 1 The depreciation and amortisation in production cost is US$196,241,000 2016: US$185,655,000.
2 Other items includes costs related to the stoppage at Pallancata and San Jose mine units 2016: Personnel related provisions in Arcata, Pallancata, Inmaculada and San Jose mining units.
7 Administrative expenses Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Personnel expenses note 10 34,775 33,028 Professional fees 3,233 3,075 1 Social and community welfare expenses 586 384 Lease rentals 1,474 1,455 Travel expenses 1,020 598 Communications 415 438 Indirect taxes 2,173 2,057 Depreciation and amortisation 1,564 1,798 Technology and systems 686 678 Security 773 656 Supplies 123 109 2 Other 4,461 3,703 Total 51,283 47,979 1 Represents amounts expended by the Group on social and community welfare activities surrounding its mining units.
2 P redominantly related to third-party services of US$1,273,000 2016: US$972,000, technical services of US$553,000 2016: US$533,000, repair and maintenance of US$388,000 2016: US$492,000 and impairment of receivables of US$79,000 2016: US$312,000.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 114 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8 Exploration expenses Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 1 Mine site exploration Arcata 3,029 1,305 Ares 69 297 Inmaculada 1,127 1 Pallancata 1,279 733 San Jose 3,407 1,691 8,911 4,027 2 Prospects Peru 336 316 Argentina 30 11 Chile 267 26 633 353 3 Generative Peru 1,862 866 USA 398 2,260 866 Personnel note 10 4,646 3,476 Others 749 471 Total 17,199 9,193 1 Mine site exploration is performed with the purpose of identifying potential minerals within an existing mine site, with the goal of maintaining or extending the mines life.
2 P rospects expenditure relates to detailed geological evaluations in order to determine zones which have mineralisation potential that is economically viable for exploration.
Exploration expenses are generally incurred in the following areas: mapping, sampling, geophysics, identification of local targets and reconnaissance drilling.
3 G enerative expenditure is early-stage exploration expenditure related to the basic evaluation of the region to identify prospects areas that have the geological conditions necessary to contain mineral deposits.
Related activities include regional and field reconnaissance, satellite images, compilation of public information and identification of exploration targets.
The Group determines the cash flows which relate to the exploration activities of the companies engaged only in exploration.
Exploration activities incurred by Group operating companies are not included since it is not practicable to separate the liabilities related to the exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
Cash outflows on exploration activities were US$2,600,000 in 2017 2016: US$1,168,000.
9 Selling expenses Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Transportation of dor, concentrate and maritime freight 6,477 8,250 Personnel expenses note 10 296 254 Warehouse services 1,742 1,861 1 Taxes 16 1,495 Other 2,493 2,315 Total 11,024 14,175 1 The export tax on concentrates in Argentina was reduced to zero percent on 12 February 2016.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 115 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information 1 10 Personnel expenses Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Salaries and wages 116,597 98,741 Other legal contributions 26,937 20,552 Statutory holiday payments 7,124 6,361 Long-Term Incentive Plan 9,348 10,528 Restricted Share Plan 2,090 3,181 Termination benefits 2,228 2,577 Other 2,670 1,951 Total 166,994 143,891 1 P ersonnel expenses are distributed in cost of sales, administrative expenses, exploration expenses, selling expenses, other expenses and capitalised as property, plant and equipment amounting to US$124,507,000 2016: US$103,130,000, US$34,775,000 2016: US$33,028,000, US$4,646,000 2016: US$3,476,000, US$296,000 2016: US$254,000, US$1,621,000 2016: US$2,406,000 and US$1,149,000 2016: US$1,597,000 respectively.
Average number of employees for 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 Peru 2,920 2,825 Argentina 1,175 1,125 Chile 3 3 United Kingdom 10 11 Total 4,108 3,964 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 116 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11 Pre-tax exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, need to be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement to enable a better understanding of the financial performance of the Group and facilitate comparison with prior years.
Unless stated, exceptional items do not correspond to a reporting segment of the Group.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Other income 3 Reversal of reserves tax 2,667 Total 2,667 Other expenses 4 Work stoppage at Pallancata mine unit 2,474 5 Penalty for termination of agreement 4,254 6 Damage of tailing dump in Ares mine unit 2,150 7 Provision for impairment of other receivables 1,797 Total 10,675 Impairment impairment reversal and write-off of non-financial assets, net 1 Impairment of assets 43,009 1 Reversal of impairment of assets 40,256 8 Write-off of non-current assets 1,634 Total 2,753 1,634 Finance income 3 Reversal of interests on reserves tax 974 Total 974 2, 9 Income tax benefit 3,279 2,224 Total 3,279 2,224 The exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2017 are as follows: 1 C orresponds to the impairment of the Arcata mine unit of US$43,009,000 and the reversals of impairment related to the Pallancata mine unit of US$31,892,000 and the San Felipe project of US$8,364,000.
2 Corresponds to the deferred tax credit generated by the impairment of the Arcata mine unit, net by the reversal on impairment of the Pallancata mine unit.
The exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2016 are as follows: 3 C orresponds to the reversal of the reserves tax liability recorded in previous periods and their associated interests as a result of the settlement agreed between Minera Santa Cruz S. A. C. and the Fiscal Authority in Argentina.
4 F rom 16 November 2016 until the end of the year, due to actions by the communities surrounding the Pallancata mine unit, the extracting and treatment operations were temporarily suspended.
At 31December 2016 the fixed indirect costs related to abnormal decrease in production from the work stoppage amounted to US$2,474,000, corresponding to the Pallancata reporting segment.
5 Penalty for early termination of the energy supply contract between Compaia Minera Ares S. A. C. and SDF Energia.
6 A s ection of the Ares tailings dam lateral walls showed unusual decay.
A comprehensive study was conducted to determine long-term stability and the conclusion was that certain areas needed to be repaired.
This failure was not anticipated and required works aimed at repairing and reinforcing the walls and ensure the long-term sustainability of the dam had to be conducted.
The expenditure incurred was not part of our mine closure provision and reflects an unexpected, one-off event.
7 Provision for impairment of the account receivable with a third party due to the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the legal dispute and hence its recoverability.
8 A s at 31 December 2016 corresponds to the write-off of non-current assets of Compaia Minera Ares S. A. C. of US$1,634,000 arising from events falling outside the entitys ordinary activities.
The charge was generated by the change of the exploitation method in the Pallancata mine unit, from mechanised to conventional.
9 M ainly corresponds to the current tax credit arising from the costs of the work stoppage at Pallancata mine unit, the penalty for early termination of agreement in Compaia Minera Ares S. A. C. the costs incurred due to the damage of the tailing dam in Ares mine unit and the reversal of reserves tax in Argentina US$1,212,000 and the deferred tax credit arising from the write-off of non-current assets and the account receivable US$1,012,000.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 117 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information 12 Other income and other expenses before exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Before Before exceptional exceptional items items US$000 US$000 Other income Decrease in provision for mine closure note 26 3 1,428 6,346 1 Export credits 1,613 19,029 Lease rentals 253 391 2 Gain on sale of other assets 1,495 1,550 Gain on sale of subsidiaries note 4 751 Logistic services 3,552 4,288 Other 1,851 776 Total 10,192 33,131 Other expenses Provision of obsolescence of supplies 542 2,162 Contingencies 347 570 Donations note 30 754 1,000 Write-off of value added tax 221 1,208 3 Corporate social responsibility contribution in Argentina 3,063 3,146 4 Other 6,622 5,772 Total 11,549 13,858 1 Corresponds to the benefit of silver refund in Argentina.
In 2016 the amount includes income recognised with respect to the Patagonian port rebate of US$16,900,000.
This benefit was eliminated in December 2016.
2 C orresponds to the gain generated by the sale of mining rights of the Ricky project 2016: Corresponds to a gain generated by the sale of a royalty purchase agreement signed with Minera Bateas S. A. C. to Lemuria Royalties Corp. 3 Relates to a new contribution in Argentina to the Santa Cruz province, effective since January 2016 and calculated as a proportion of sales.
13 Finance income and finance costs before exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Before Before exceptional exceptional items items US$000 US$000 Finance income Interest on deposits and liquidity funds 1,696 1,011 Interest income 1,696 1,011 Gain from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 647 Gain on exchange of available-for-sale financial assets 1,386 Gain on discount of other receivables 1,946 Other 252 89 Total 5,927 1,100 Finance costs Interest on secured bank loans note 25 185 2,602 Other interest 813 1,106 Interest on bond note 25 24,088 23,925 Interest expense 25,086 27,633 Unwind of discount on mine rehabilitation note 26 280 46 Loss on discount of other receivables 2,257 Loss on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 32 Other 697 605 Total 26,095 30,541 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 118 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Income tax expense Year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended 31 December 2016 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current corporate income tax from continuing operations Current corporate income tax charge 15,070 15,070 31,701 1,212 30,489 Current mining royalty charge note 35 4,201 4,201 3,882 3,882 Current special mining tax charge note 35 2,229 2,229 3,869 3,869 Withholding taxes 552 552 21,500 21,500 40,004 1,212 38,792 Deferred taxation Origination and reversal of temporary differences from continuing operations note 28 2,755 3,279 524 6,364 961 5,403 1 Effect of change in tax rate 10,780 10,780 1,273 51 1,222 8,025 3,279 11,304 7,637 1,012 6,625 Total taxation charge credit in the income statement 13,475 3,279 10,196 47,641 2,224 45,417 1 O n 29 December 2017, the Argentinian government enacted the tax reform.
The main change is the decrease of the statutory income tax rate, from its current level of 35% to 30% with effect from 1 January 2018 and to 25% with effect from 1 January 2020 2016: In December 2016, the Peruvian government approved an increase of the statutory income tax rate, from its current level of 28% to 29.5% with effect from 1 January 2017.
The weighted average statutory income tax rate was 29.0% for 2017 and 30.1% for 2016.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the Group companies in their respective countries as included in the consolidated financial statements.
The change in the weighted average statutory income tax rate is due to a change in the weighting of profit loss before tax in the various jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The tax related to items charged or credited to equity is as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Deferred taxation: Deferred income tax relating to fair value losses on cash flow hedges 5,955 Total tax credit in the statement of other comprehensive income 5,955 The total taxation charge on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the consolidated profits of the Group companies as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Profit from continuing operations before income tax 64,077 108,279 At average statutory income tax rate of 29.0% 2016: 30.1% 18,562 32,570 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 776 1,051 Deferred tax recognised on special investment regime 1,819 1,715 1 Movement in unrecognised deferred tax 1,324 2,705 2 Change in statutory income tax rate 10,780 1,222 Withholding tax 552 3 Special mining tax and mining royalty 6,430 7,751 Derecognition of deferred tax asset 316 4 Foreign exchange rate effect 1,043 2,383 Utilisation of losses not previously recognised 1,618 Other 1,012 1,418 At average effective income tax rate of 15.9% 2016: 41.9% 10,196 45,417 Taxation charge attributable to continuing operations 10,196 45,417 Total taxation charge in the income statement 10,196 45,417 1 I ncludes the income tax credit on mine closure provision of US$3,010,000 2016: US$1,925,000.
2 T he Argentinian government approved a decrease of the statutory income tax rate, from its current level of 35% to 30% with effect from 1 January 2018 and 25% with effect from 1 January 2020 2016: Peruvian government approved an increase of the statutory income tax rate, from its current level of 28% to 29.5% with effect from 1 January 2017.
3 Corresponds to the impact of a mining royalty and special mining tax in Peru note 35.
4 Mainly corresponds to the foreign exchange effect of converting tax bases and monetary items from local currency to the functional currency.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 119 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information The effective tax rate for corporate income tax for the period ended 31 December 2017 is 15.9% 2016: 41.9%, compared to the weighted average statutory tax rate of 29.0% 2016: 30.1%, and 39.0% 2016: 37.3% taking into account the mining royalty and the special mining tax which are income taxes under IAS 12.
The main factor that reduced the effective tax rate for corporate income tax is the deferred tax impact of the reduction of the Argentina tax rate and the reversal of San Felipe impairment, which does not attract a deferred tax liability, on the basis that no deferred tax asset arose when the impairment was originally recognised.
15 Basic and diluted earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year.
The Company has dilutive potential ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2017 and 2016, EPS has been calculated as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 Basic earnings loss per share from continuing operations Before exceptional items US$ 0.08 0.11 Exceptional items US$ 0.02 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.08 0.09 Diluted earnings loss per share from continuing operations Before exceptional items US$ 0.08 0.10 Exceptional items US$ 0.01 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.08 0.09 Profit loss from continuing operations before exceptional items and attributable to equity holders of the parent is derived as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent continuing operations US$000 41,561 45,550 Exceptional items after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 526 7,604 Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 41,035 53,154 Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items attributable to equity holders of the parent for the purpose of diluted earnings per share US$000 41,035 53,154 The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: As at 31 December 2017 2016 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue thousands 507,204 505,521 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares related to contingently issuable shares thousands 7,768 9,435 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for the purpose of diluted earnings per share thousands 514,972 514,956 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 120 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment Mining Construction properties and in progress development Land and Plant and Mine closure and capital 1 costs buildings equipment Vehicles asset advances Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2017 Cost At 1 January 2017 1,180,904 488,486 536,929 6,210 95,390 24,943 2,332,862 Additions 79,054 187 16,339 29 28,045 123,654 Change in discount rate 575 575 Change in mine closure estimate 2,572 2,572 Disposals 2,927 3 2,930 Write-offs 127 3,492 172 19 3,810 2 Transfers and other movements 56 8,378 10,633 547 19,560 58 At 31 December 2017 1,259,902 496,924 557,482 6,611 98,537 33,409 2,452,865 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 791,641 218,123 277,692 4,554 64,480 889 1,357,379 Depreciation for the year 109,642 44,431 40,356 325 4,321 199,075 Disposals 2,564 3 2,567 Write-offs 98 3,152 155 3,405 Impairment reversal of impairment, net 2,369 3,613 8,631 24 1,646 143 8,396 2 Transfers and other movements 467 2,146 1,679 At 31 December 2017 899,381 266,069 318,817 4,745 67,155 1,032 1,557,199 Net book amount at 31 December 2017 360,521 230,855 238,665 1,866 31,382 32,377 895,666 There were borrowing costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment amounting to US$601,000 2016: US$825,000.
The capitalisation rate used was 8.27% 2016: 7.23%.
1 Mining properties and development costs related to Crespo project US$26,016,000 are not currently being depreciated.
2 Net of transfers and other movements of US$1,607,000 were transferred from evaluation and exploration assets note 17.
Management determined there were triggers of impairment in the Arcata mine unit as it has experienced difficulties to replace production with incremental resources and to convert resources into reserves, and there was a significant decrease in production during the year.
An impairment test was carried outresulting in an impairment charge of US$43,009,000 US$39,905,000 in property, plant and equipment and US$3,104,000 and evaluation and exploration assets.
In the case of the Pallancata mine unit, there was an increase in terms of tonnage, grades, and resources and reserves due to the Pablo vein.
The Group iscurrently operating the vein, converting inferred resources into reserves, and the process is showing better results than expected in terms of tonnage and grades.
An impairment test was carried out resulting in an impairment reversal of US$31,892,000 US$31,509,000 in property, plant and equipment and US$383,000 and evaluation and exploration assets.
In addition, management evaluated the carrying value of the San Felipe Project, recognising an impairment reversal of US$8,364,000 all in evaluation andexploration assets due to the proceeds received in the year refer to note 23 and the significant increase in zinc market prices over the year resulting in an increase of the in-situ value refer to notes 11 and 17.
No indicators of impairment or reversal of impairment were identified in the other CGUs, which includes other exploration projects.
The recoverable values of the Arcata and Pallancata CGUs were determined using a fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD methodology with the exception of San Felipe, where the recoverable value was determined using a value in use VIU.
In assessing the recoverable value of the San Felipe CGU, given the early stage of the project, the Group applied a value-in-situ methodology which applies arealisable enterprise value to unprocessed mineral resources.
The enterprise value used is based on observable external market information.
Together with the US$29,396,000 recognised as a deferred income refer to note 23 that will be realised once the option is exercised or terminated: the total recoverable value of the project under a value in use approach amounts to US$37,081,000.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 121 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information The key assumptions on which management has based its determination of FVLCD and the associated recoverable values calculated are gold and silver prices, production costs, the discount rate and the value per in-situ regarding the San Felipe project.
Gold and silver prices used, discount rate applied and value per in-situ per zinc equivalent tonne are presented below.
US$ per oz 2018 2019 2020 Long-term Gold 1,298 1,300 1,303 1,300 Silver 18 18 19 19 1 Arcata Pallancata San Felipe Discount rate post tax 4.3% 5.4% n a Value per in-situ per zinc equivalent tonne US$ n a n a 29.53 1 The Pallancata CGU was assessed for impairment reversal at 30 June 2017 and therefore the above reflects the relevant assumption at that date.
Current carrying value of CGU, net of deferred tax US$000 Arcata Pallancata San Felipe 31 December 2017 5,859 91,065 37,081 Sensitivity analysis Other than as disclosed below, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions above would cause the carrying value of any of its CGUs to exceed its recoverable amount.
The estimated recoverable amounts of the following of the Groups CGUs are equal to, or not materially greater than, their carrying values.
As the Arcata CGU was fully impaired at 31 December 2017, a negative change in any of the key assumptions would not have an impact on the impairment charge recognised.
However, a positive change in the following key assumptions would, in isolation, decrease the impairment charge recorded by: US$000 Prices increase by 10% 11,696 Post tax discount rate decrease by 3% 30 Production costs decrease by 10% 9,535 As the impairment charge previously recognised at the Pallancata CGU was fully reversed at 30 June 2017, a positive change in any of the key assumptions would not have an impact on the impairment reversal recognised.
Similarly, an adverse change in the key assumptions 10% decrease in price, 3% increase in post tax discount rate and 10% increase in production costs, in isolation, would still result in a full reversal of the impairment previously recognised.
With respect to the impairment assessment performed at the San Felipe CGU, a decrease of 10% in the value-in-situ per tonne would result in a reversal of impairment of US$7,595,000, whilst an increase of 10% would result in a reversal of previously recognised impairment of US$9,132,000.
2 Net of transfers and other movements of US$2,664,000 were transferred from evaluation and exploration assets note 17.
1 A t 31 December 2017, the Group has recorded an impairment charge with respect to evaluation and exploration assets of the Arcata mine unit of US$3,104,000, and reversals of impairment with respect to the Pallancata mine unit of US$383,000 and the San Felipe project of US$8,364,000.
The calculation of the recoverable values is detailed in note 16.
At 31 December 2017 the remaining amortisation period is approximately 8 years 2016: 9 years.
2 C orresponds to the acquisition of water permits of Andina Minerals Group Andina.
They have an indefinite life according to Chilean law.
To determine the fair value less costs of disposal of the Volcan cashgenerating unit, which includes the water permits held by the Group, the Group used the value-in-situ methodology.
This methodology applies a realisable enterprise value to unprocessed mineral resources which was US$7.10 per gold equivalent ounce of resources at 31 December 2017 2016: US$6.90.
The risk adjusted enterprise value figure has been determined using a combination of Level 2 and Level 3 inputs to estimate the amount that would be paid by a willing third party in an arms length transaction, taking into account the water restrictions imposed by the Chile government.
3 L egal rights correspond to expenditures required to give the Group the right to use a property for the surface exploration work, development and production.
At 31 December 2017 the remaining amortisation period is from 10 to 20 years 2016: 8 to 20 years.
4 The amortisation for the period is included in cost of sales and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The carrying amount of the Volcan CGU, which includes the water permits, is reviewed annually to determine whether it is in excess of its recoverable amount.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 123 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Key assumptions 2017 2016 Risk adjusted value per in-situ gold equivalent ounce US$ 7.10 6.90 US$000 2017 2016 Current carrying value Volcan CGU 63,968 63,187 Sensitivity analysis Other than as disclosed below, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions above would cause the carrying value, to exceed its recoverable amount.
The estimated recoverable amount is not materially greater than its carrying value.
A change in the value-in-situ assumption could cause an impairment loss or reversal of impairment to be recognised as follows: Approximate impairment reversal of impairment resulting from the following changes US$000 2017 2016 Value per in-situ ounce 10% decrease 2,667 3,896 Risk factor increase by 5% 1,095 2,376 Risk factor decrease by 5% 9,384 7,760 19 Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Beginning balance 991 366 1 Acquisitions 7,163 Fair value change recorded in equity 323 774 2 Disposals 1,160 149 2 Exchange of shares 407 Ending balance 6,264 991 1 C orresponds to the purchase of 4,886,538 shares of Cobalt Power Group Cobalt US$500,000, 14,545,454 shares of Red Eagle Mining Corporation Red Eagle US$3,314,000, and 153,616 shares of Goldspot Discoveries Inc. US$569,000.
In addition, 13,415,000 shares of Santa Cruz Silver Mining were received in payment US$2,780,000 of the option for the San Felipe project refer note 23 and thus no cash consideration was received.
With the acquisition of the shares, the Group also acquired 14,545,454 warrants of Red Eagle and 2,443,269 warrants of Cobalt respectively.
The warrants were recognised at fair value on acquisition and presented as other financial assets.
2 A s at 31 December 2016 the Group held an investment in Mariana Resources Ltd which was acquired by Sandstorm Gold on 12 July 2017.
In consideration for the exchange of shares the Group received cash proceeds of $407,000 and shares of Sandstorm Gold generating a gain of US$1,386,000.
On 17 July 2017 the Group disposed its investment in Sandstorm Gold realising a loss on sale of  assets of US$32,000.
The fair value of the listed shares is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
Investments held in Pembrook Mining Corp. US$11,745,000, ECI Exploration and Mining Inc. US$2,639,000 and Goldspot Discoveries Inc. US$581,000 are unlisted and recognised at cost less any recognised impairment loss as there is no active market for these investments.
The investments in Pembrook Mining Corp and ECI Exploration and Mining Inc. are fully impaired as at 31 December 2016 and 2017.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 124 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20 Trade and other receivables As at 31 December 2017 2016 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Trade receivables note 36 c 43,209 36,821 Advances to suppliers 4,482 2,458 1 Duties recoverable from exports of Minera Santa Cruz 1,570 2,681 19,065 Receivables from related parties note 30 a 160 71 Loans to employees 877 353 856 230 Interest receivable 402 151 Receivable from Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank 208 198 2 Other 1,810 9,397 2,188 10,205 3 Provision for impairment 4,594 6,342 Assets classified as receivables 4,257 56,298 22,109 43,792 Prepaid expenses 91 3,720 44 2,590 4 Value Added Tax VAT 3,139 21,048 3,564 21,738 Total 7,487 81,066 25,717 68,120 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate their book value.
1 R elates to export benefits through Port Patagonico and silver refunds in Minera Santa Cruz, discounted over 19 months 2016: 24 months at a rate of 5.40% 2016: 6.39% for dollars denominated amounts and 29.60% 2016: 23.31% for Argentinian Pesos.
The gain on the unwinding of the discount is recognised within finance income 2016: loss on discount is recognised within finance costs.
2 Mainly corresponds to account receivables from contractors for the sale of supplies of US$4,773,000 2016: US$3,968,000, and other tax claims of US$3,903,000 2016: US$5,333,000.
3 I ncludes the provision for impairment of trade receivable from a customer in Peru of US$1,080,000 2016: US$1,043,000, the impairment of deposits in Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander of US$208,000 2016: US$198,000, the impairment of the account receivable from a third party of US$2,501,000 2016: US$1,797,000 and other receivables of US$805,000 2016: US$3,304,000 that mainly relates to an exploration project that would be recovered through an ownership interest if it succeeds.
4 P rimarily relates to US$12,829,000 2016: US$16,030,000 of VAT receivable related to the San Jose project that will be recovered through future sales of gold and silver and also through the sale of these credits to third parties by Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
It also includes the VAT of Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. of US$6,519,000 2016: US$4,776,000 and Empresa fide Transmisin Aymaraes S. A. C. of US$4,034,000 2016: US$3,665,000.
The VAT is valued at its recoverable amount.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables: Individually impaired US$000 At 1 January 2016 5,327 Provided for during the year 2,061 1 Released during the year 1,046 At 31 December 2016 6,342 Provided for during the year 1,065 1 Released during the year 2,813 At 31 December 2017 4,594 1 Corresponds to the reversal of the provision of US$9,000 2016: US$1,046,000 and write-off of US$2,804,000 2016: US$nil.
As at 31 December 2017 and 2016, none of the financial assets classified as receivables net of impairment were past due.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 125 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information 21 Inventories As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Finished goods valued at cost 3,011 3,515 Products in process valued at cost 17,099 20,727 Raw materials 33 Supplies and spare parts 41,572 40,241 61,682 64,516 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 5,004 7,460 Total 56,678 57,056 Finished goods include ounces of gold and silver, dor and concentrate.
Products in process include stockpile and precipitates.
The Group either sells dor bars as a finished product or if it is commercially advantageous to do so, delivers the bars for refining into gold and silver ounces which are then sold.
In the latter scenario, the dor bars are classified as products in process.
At 31 December 2017 and 2016 the Group had no dor on hand included in products in process.
Concentrate is sold to smelters, but in addition could be used as a product in process to produce dor.
As part of the Groups short-term financing policies, it acquires pre-shipment loans which are guaranteed by the sales contracts.
The amount of expense recognised in profit and loss related to the consumption of inventory of supplies, spare parts and raw materials is US$104,689,000 2016: US$86,754,000.
Movements in the provision for obsolescence comprise an increase in the provision of US$542,000 2016: US$2,162,000 and the reversal of US$2,997,000 relating to the sale of supplies and spare parts, that had been provided for 2016: US$nil.
22 Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank 335 353 1 Liquidity funds 2,869 203 2 Current demand deposit accounts 61,612 68,643 3 Time deposits 192,172 70,780 Cash and cash equivalents considered for the statement of cash flows 256,988 139,979 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their book value.
The Group does not have undrawn borrowing facilities available in the future for operating activities or capital commitments.
1 The liquidity funds are mainly invested in certificates of deposit, commercial papers and floating rate notes with a weighted average maturity of 29 days as at 31 December 2017 2016: average of 16 days.
2 Relates to bank accounts which are freely available and bear interest.
3 These deposits have an average maturity of 32 days 2016: Average of 3 days refer to note 36 c. Annual Report & Accounts 2017 126 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Deferred income As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 1 San Felipe contract 29,396 25,000 2 El Mosquito contract 1,413 30,809 25,000 Current balance 400 Non-current 30,409 25,000 1 O n 3 August 2011, the Group entered into an agreement with Impulsora Minera Santa Cruz IMSC whereby IMSC acquired the right to explore the San Felipe properties and an option to purchase the related concessions.
Under the terms of this agreement the Group has received US$29,396,000 as non-refundable payments at 31 December 2017 2016: US$25,000,000.
T hese payments will reduce the total consideration that IMSC will be required to pay upon exercise of the option and constitute an advance of the final purchase price, rather than an option premium and, as such, they were recorded as deferred income.
O n 30 November 2016, IMSC renegotiated terms of the agreement, extending the validity of the agreement to 1 December 2017.
As a result of this extension, on 9 March 2017 the Group received in payment 13,415,000 ordinary shares of Santa Cruz Silver Mining SCSM quoted in the Toronto Stock Exchange, at the unit price of CAD 0.28 amounting to CAD 3,756,000 equivalent to US$2,780,000.
The amount received included valued added taxes of US$384,000 and part consideration of US$2,396,000 recognised as deferred income.
O n 28 February 2017, the Group signed a new option agreement with IMSC for the San Felipe properties for a total consideration of US$10,000,000.
An initial payment of US$2,000,000 was received in cash on 7 March 2017.
I n March 2017, IMSC entered into an agreement with Americas Silver Corporation ASC to assign 100% of its interest in the San Felipe Project.
O n 1 December 2017, the option to sell the San Felipe property to IMSC was extended to 31 December 2018 based on an amendment to the payment terms, and additional US$8,000,000 is payable by IMSC at 31 December 2017.
2 O n 25 April 2017 the Group signed a five-year option agreement with Minas Argentinas S. A. MASA giving MASA the right to explore and the option to purchase the Mosquito property, located in Argentina.
The Group has received in cash US$2,000,000, recognising US$1,813,000 as deferred income at 31 December 2017.
24 Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2017 2016 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Trade payables 63,038 55,381 2 Salaries and wages payable 36,143 28,500 Dividends payable 107 75 Taxes and contributions 32 6,425 43 4,962 Guarantee deposits 6,946 5,073 Mining royalty note 35 684 679 Accounts payable to related parties note 30 a 149 94 Other 1,049 3,287 1,223 3,720 Total 1,081 116,779 1,266 98,484 The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
1 Trade payables relate mainly to the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractors services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
2 S alaries and wages payable relates to remuneration payable.
There were Board members' remuneration payable of US$nil 2016: US$2,000 and long-term incentive plan payable of US$7,520,000 2016: US$6,279,000 at 31 December 2017.
25 Borrowings As at 31 December 2017 2016 Effective NonEffective Noninterest current Current interest current Current rate US$000 US$000 rate US$000 US$000 Bond payable a 8.56% 291,955 8,779 8.56% 291,073 8,778 Secured bank loans b 1.80% to 2.70% to Pre-shipment loans in Minera Santa Cruz note 21 2.85% 9,043 3.00% 2,524 Short-term bank loans 1.75% 50,041 0.65% 25,010 Total 291,955 67,863 291,073 36,312 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 127 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information a Bond payable On 23 January 2014 the Group issued US$350,000,000 7.75% Senior Unsecured Notes of Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. guaranteed by Hochschild Mining plc and Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation S. A.
The interest is paid semi-annually, until maturity in 23 January 2021.
During November and December 2015, the Group repurchased bonds amounting to US$55,225,000 for US$54,369,000, giving rise to a gain on repurchase of US$856,000.
The balance at 31 December 2017 comprises the carrying value, including accrued interest payable, of US$300,734,000 2016: US$299,851,000 determined in accordance with the effective interest method.
The following options could be taken before the maturity: Optional Redemption without Make-Whole Premium: The issuer may redeem all or part of the notes on or after 23 January 2018 at the redemption prices specified plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional amounts, if any, to the redemption date.
The Make-Whole Premium requires repayment of 103.875%, 101.938% or 100% of the outstanding principal balance if exercised in 2018, 2019 or 2020 respectively.
Optional Redemption Upon Tax Event: 100% of the outstanding principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional amounts, if any.
Change of Control Offer: 101% of principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
b Secured bank loans Short-term bank loans: One credit agreement signed by Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. with BBVA Continental 2016: two credit agreements signed by Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. with BBVA Continental.
The carrying value including accrued interest payable at 31 December 2017 is US$50,041,000 2016: US$25,010,000.
The due date is 15 December 2018 2016: Repaid on due date 7 February 2017.
The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Between 1 and 2 years Between 2 and 5 years 291,955 291,073 Over 5 years Total 291,955 291,073 The carrying amount of current borrowings differs their fair value only with respect to differences arising under the effective interest rate calculations described above.
The carrying amount and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows: Carrying amount as at Fair value as at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Secured bank loans Bond payable 291,955 291,073 306,566 318,062 Total 291,955 291,073 306,566 318,062 In the case of the bond payable, the fair value was determined with reference to the quoted price of these bonds in an active market, it is Level 1 input.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a real pre-tax annual discount rate, based on a US Treasury bond of an appropriate tenure adjusted for the impact of quantitative easing as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 respectively, and the cash flows have been adjusted to reflect the risk attached to these cash flows.
Uncertainties on the timing for use of this provision include changes in the future that could impact the time of closing the mines, as new resources and reserves are discovered.
Expected cash flows will be over a period from one to 16 years.
2 C orresponds to the provision related to awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP to designated personnel of the Group.
Includes the following benefits: i 2017 awards, granted in March 2017, payable in March 2020 ii 2016 awards, granted in March 2016, payable in March 2019.
Only employees who remain in the Groups employment on the vesting date will be entitled to a cash payment, subject to exceptions approved by the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
The percentage of the award granted is determined 70% by the Companys TSR ranking relative to a tailored peer group of mining companies, and 30% by the Companys TSR ranking relative to a peer group of FTSE350 companies.
The liability for the LTIP is measured, initially and at the end of each reporting period until settled, at the fair value of the awards, by applying the Monte Carlo pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions on which the awards were granted, and the extent to which the employees have rendered services to date.
Changes to the provision of US$8,702,000 2016: US$9,965,000 have been recorded as administrative expenses US$8,215,000 2016: US$9,298,000 and exploration expenses US$487,000 2016: US$667,000.
3 B ased on the 2017 internal and external review of mine rehabilitation estimates, the provision for mine closure increased by US$856,000 2016: US$11,975,000 decrease.
The net increase 2016: net decrease mainly corresponds to the Pallancata mine unit of US$1,385,000 2016: US$447,000 decrease, the Inmaculada mine unit of US$1,191,000 2016: US$1,651,000 increase, the Crespo project of US$43,000 2016: US$37,000 decrease, the Ares mine unit of US$22,000 2016: US$1,622,000 decrease and the Azuca project of US$7,000 2016: US$8,000 decrease, net of the decrease in Arcata mine unit of US$1,131,000 2016: US$6,648,000 decrease, the Selene mine unit of US$607,000 2016: US$698,000 decrease and San Jos mine unit of US$54,000 US$4,166,000 decrease.
4 U S$1,428,000 2016: US$6,346,000 related to changes in estimate and discount rates for mines already closed and the Arcata mine unit which reduction of the estimated costs exceeded the carrying value of the mine asset, therefore the effect has been recognised directly in the income statement.
The following tables list the inputs to the Monte Carlo model used for the LTIPs for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2017, respectively: LTIP 2015 LTIP 2016 LTIP 2017 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 For the period ended US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Dividend yield % 0.49 0.81 0.49 0.81 Expected volatility % 3.89 4.02 3.89 4.02 Riskfree interest rate % 0.12 0.25 0.12 0.25 Expected life years 1 1 2 2 Weighted average share price pence 100.68 63.07 63.49 239.22 The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the awards and is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 129 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information 27 Equity a Share capital and share premium Issued share capital The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2017 is as follows: Issued Class of shares Number Amount Ordinary shares 507,232,310 126,808,078 The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2016 is as follows: Issued Class of shares Number Amount Ordinary shares 507,232,310 126,808,078 At 31 December 2017 and 2017, all issued shares with a par value of 25 pence each were fully paid 2017: weighted average of US$0.442 per share, 2016: weighted average of US$0.442 per share.
Rights attached to ordinary shares: At general meetings of the Company, on a show of hands and on a poll, every member who is present in person or subject to the below, by proxy, has one vote for every share of which they are the holder proxy.
However, in the case of a vote on a show of hands where a proxy has been appointed by more than one member, the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
On 30 December 2016 the Group issued 1,660,805 ordinary shares under the Restricted Share Plan, to certain employees of the Group.
The changes in share capital are as follows: Share Number of Share capital premium shares US$000 US$000 Shares issued as at 1 January 2016 505,571,505 223,805 438,041 Shares issued according the Restricted Share Plan benefit on 30 December 2016 1,660,805 510 Shares issued as at 31 December 2016 and 2017 507,232,310 224,315 438,041 b Treasury shares Treasury shares represent the cost of Hochschild Mining plc shares purchased in the market and held by the trustee of the Hochschild Mining Employee Share Trust to satisfy the award of conditional shares under the Groups Enhanced Long-Term Incentive Plan granted to the CEO note 2 n. During 2011, the Group purchased 126,769 shares for the purposes of the plan, for a total consideration of 561,478 equivalent to US$898,000.
No shares were purchased by the Group during 2016 and 2017.
On 20 March 2016, 66,727 Treasury shares with a value of US$472,000 being the cost incurred to acquire the shares were transferred to the CEO of the Group with respect to the Deferred Bonus Plan benefit.
On 20 March 2017, 40,383 Treasury shares with a value of US$286,000 being the cost incurred to acquire the shares were transferred to the CEO of the Group with respect to the Deferred Bonus Plan benefit.
c Other reserves Unrealised gain loss on available-for-sale financial assets Under IAS 39, the Group classifies its investments in listed companies as available-for-sale financial assets which are carried at fair value.
Consequently, the increase in carrying values, net of the related deferred tax liability, is taken directly to this account where it will remain until disposal or impairment of the investment, when the cumulative unrealised gains and losses are recycled through the income statement.
Unrealised gain loss on cash flow hedges Correspond to the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instruments refer to note 2 y.
Cumulative translation adjustment The cumulative translation adjustment account is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries and associates with a functional currency different to the reporting currency of the Group.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets of the Cayman Holding Companies Ardsley, Garrison, Larchmont and Hochschild Mining Peru acquired under the Share Exchange Agreement and the nominal value of the shares issued in consideration of such acquisition.
Share-based payment reserve Share-based payment reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payment transactions provided to employees, as a part of theirremuneration.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 130 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Equity continued i Restricted Share Plan RSP At the beginning of 2015, the Group introduced the RSP, which is a new one-off share-based long-term incentive plan for some executives and key employees who play a fundamental role in the performance of the business.
Under the RSP of the Group, on 30 December 2014 and 16 February 2015, 1,319,392 and 6,026,089 share options with a fair value of 86.8p US$1.35 and 92.3p US$1.42 per share were granted to the CEO and certain key employees.
Following the rights issue in October 2015, the number of share options were adjusted to 1,491,572 and 6,812,485 with a fair value of 76.7p US$1.19 and 81.6p US$1.25 per share, respectively.
The vesting of the options is subject to the satisfaction of certain performance as well as service conditions classified as non-market conditions.
The options vest over a five-year period in tranches of 20% of the shares after each of 2, 3 and 4 years and the balance after 5 years.
If the service conditions are not met, the options lapse.
As the performance conditions are non-market-based they are not reflected in the fair value of the award at grant date, and therefore the Company will assess the likelihood of these conditions being met with a relevant adjustment to the cumulative charge as required at each financial year-end.
The fair value of the option was determined with respect to the market price of the shares on the grant date.
The awards do not entitle the recipients to dividends or payment in lieu of dividends during the vesting period.
The RSP does not have an exercise price.
On 30 December 2016 the Group issued 1,660,805 ordinary shares under the Restricted Share Plan, to certain employees of the Group, including the CEO.
The carrying amount of the share-based payment reserve relating to the RSP at 31 December 2017 is US$6,048,000 2016: US$3,958,000 with the amount recognised in the consolidated income statement of US$2,090,000 2016: US$3,181,000.
On 30 December 2017 20% of the options vested, resulting in 1,660,805 ordinary shares that were issued on 2 January 2018.
The balance of shares pending to vest at 31 December 2017 is 4,982,447 ordinary shares.
ii Deferred Bonus Plan DBP At the beginning of 2014, the Group introduced the DBP, as a mechanism to pay the annual bonuses to the employees.
Before the approval of DBP the annual bonuses were paid entirely in cash.
Under the DBP rules a part of the annual bonuses could be deferred into shares for one or two years.
A Deferred Bonus award granted under the Plan, and the terms of that Deferred Bonus award, must be approved in advance by the Directors.
The fair value of the awards was determined with respect to the market price of the shares on the grant date.
The carrying amount of the share-based payment reserve relating to the DBP at 31 December 2017 is US$43,000 2016: US$57,000 with the amount recognised in the consolidated income statement of US$34,000 2016: US$76,000.
On 20 March 2016 and 20 March 2017, 66,727 and 40,383 Treasury shares were transferred respectively to the CEO of the Group with respect to the DBP.
iii Enhanced Long-term Incentive Plan ELTIP In April 2011 and March 2014, the CEO was granted awards under the ELTIP 397,645 and 1,076,122 shares respectively.
Awards were made over conditional shares with a value, on the date of grant, equivalent to six times salary and which vest in tranches over an extended performance period of four, five and six years.
Further details on the design of the ELTIP award and numbers of awards granted are included in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
The fair value of the option was determined using the Monte Carlo model.
The carrying amount of the share-based payment reserve relating to the ELTIP at 31 December 2017 is US$1,543,000 2016: US$1,854,000.
The amount recognised in the consolidated income statement amounts to US$449,000 2016: US$563,000.
In addition, US$$760,000 2016: US$383,000 relating to options that lapsed during the year 204,731 ordinary shares lapsed in 2017 and 102,365 ordinary shares lapsed in 2016 were transferred from the share-based payment reserve to retain earnings.
As at 31 December 2017, 1,076,122 ordinary shares are pending to vest 31 December 2016: 1,280,853 ordinary shares.
No shares lapsed during the year 2016: 204,731 shares.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 131 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information 28 Deferred income tax The changes in the net deferred income tax assets liabilities are as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Beginning of the year 64,944 64,274 Income statement charge credit note 14 11,304 6,625 Deferred income tax arising on net unrealised gains on cash flow hedges recognised in equity note 14 5,955 End of the year 53,640 64,944 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset during the year is as follows: Differences in Mine Financial cost of PP&E development instruments Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax liabilities At 1 January 2016 47,967 60,107 8,064 4,762 120,900 Income statement credit charge 6,319 8,235 1,938 22 Deferred income tax arising on net unrealised gains on cash flow hedges recognised in equity 5,955 5,955 Transfer 2,109 2,109 At 31 December 2016 41,648 68,342 2,824 112,814 Transfer 2,474 991 201 1,197 2,469 At 31 December 2017 44,122 69,333 201 1,627 115,283 Differences in Provision for Mine Financial cost of PP&E mine closure Tax losses development instruments Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets At 1 January 2016 7,862 22,853 16,814 954 2,253 5,890 56,626 Income statement credit charge 8,463 3,319 15,868 42 160 3,959 6,647 Transfer 2,109 2,109 At 31 December 2016 16,325 19,534 946 912 304 9,849 47,870 Income statement credit charge 14,347 51 893 110 304 1,002 13,773 At 31 December 2017 30,672 19,483 1,839 802 8,847 61,643 The amounts after offset, as presented on the face of the Statement of financial position, are as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets 2,400 1,027 Deferred income tax liabilities 56,040 65,971 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 132 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 Deferred income tax continued Tax losses expire in the following years: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Unrecognised Expire in one year 3,517 2,268 Expire in two years 493 3,231 Expire in three years 42 4,594 Expire in four years 4,320 2,295 Expire after four years 119,461 111,630 127,833 124,018 Other unrecognised deferred income tax assets comprise gross amounts : As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 1 Provision for mine closure 7,287 9,971 2 Impairments of assets 2,509 14,692 1 This relates to provision for mine closure expenditure which is expected to be incurred in periods in which taxable profits are not expected against which the expenditure can be offset.
2 Related to the reversal of impairment of San Felipe project 2016: Related to the impairment of San Felipe and Volcan project note 17.
Unrecognised deferred tax liability on retained earnings At 31 December 2015, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2014: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries as the intention is that these amounts are permanently reinvested.
29 Dividends 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Dividends paid and proposed during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2016: 1.38 US cents per share 2015: nil US cents per share 6,997 Interim dividend for 2017: 1.38 US cents per share 2016: 1.38 US cents per share 6,999 6,998 Total dividends paid on ordinary shares 13,996 6,998 Proposed dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2017: 1.965 US cents per share 2016: 1.38 US cents per share 9,967 6,997 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 12,585 16,983 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest related to 2014 and previous periods 753 Total dividends paid to non-controlling interests 12,585 17,736 Dividends per share The interim dividend paid in September 2017 was US$6,999,000 1.38 US cents per share.
A proposed dividend in respect of the year ending 31 December 2017 of 1.965 US cents per share, amounting to a total dividend of US$9,967,000, is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 25 May 2018 and is not recognised as a liability as at 31 December 2017.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 133 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information 30 Related-party balances and transactions a Related-party accounts receivable and payable The Group had the following related-party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016.
The related parties are companies owned or controlled by the main shareholder of the parent company or associates.
Accounts receivable Accounts payable as at 31 December as at 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current related party balances 1 Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
160 71 149 94 Total 160 71 149 94 1 The account receivable relates to reimbursement of expenses paid by the Group on behalf of Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
The account payable relates to the payment of rentals.
As at 31 December 2017 and 2016, all accounts are, or were, non-interest bearing.
No security has been granted or guarantees given by the Group in respect of these related party balances.
Principal transactions between affiliates are as follows: Year ended 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Income Gain on sale of Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy to Inversiones ASPI S. A.
811 Expenses Donation to the Universidad fide Ingenieria y Tecnologia UTEC 1,000 Expense recognised for the rental paid to Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
200 200 Transactions between the Group and these companies are on an arms length basis.
b Compensation of key management personnel of the Group As at 31 December 2017 2016 Compensation of key management personnel including Directors US$000 US$000 Short-term employee benefits 6,086 5,459 Long-Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan and Restricted Share Plan 5,446 6,622 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 11,532 12,081 This amount includes the remuneration paid to the Directors of the parent company of the Group of US$5,438,873 2016: US$5,487,769.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 134 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31 Auditors remuneration The Auditors remuneration for services provided to the Group during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 is as follows: Amounts paid to Ernst & Young in the year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 1 Audit fees pursuant to legislation 597 597 Audit-related assurance services 53 53 Taxation compliance services 14 Taxation advisory services 29 63 2 Other non-audit services 18 Total 711 713 1 The total audit fee in respect of local statutory audits of subsidiaries is US$350,000 2016: US$358,000.
2 Related to the benchmark on derivatives and IFRS 15 and 9 implementation.
In 2017 and 2016, all fees are included in administrative expenses.
32 Notes to the statement of cash flows As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Reconciliation of loss for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 53,881 62,862 Adjustments to reconcile Group loss to net cash inflows from operating activities Depreciation note 3 a 195,954 185,793 Amortisation of intangibles note 18 1,851 1,660 Write-off of assets 405 1,912 Impairment of assets note 11 2,753 Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets, net 1,354 66 Loss gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 145 48 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 542 2,162 Gain on sale of subsidiary 751 Decrease of provision for mine closure 1,428 6,346 Finance income 4,541 2,008 Finance costs 26,063 30,541 Income tax expense 10,196 45,417 Other 5,464 5,483 Increase decrease of cash flows from operations due to changes in assets and liabilities Trade and other receivables 22,109 27,949 Income tax receivable 423 Other financial assets and liabilities 3,671 585 Inventories 165 11,068 Trade and other payables 22,670 21,595 Provisions 1,143 1,661 Cash generated from operations 287,799 345,856 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 135 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information 33 Commitments a Mining rights purchase options During the ordinary course of business, the Group enters into agreements to carry out exploration under concessions held by third parties.
Generally, under the terms of these agreements, the Group has the option to acquire the concession or invest in the entity holding the concession.
In order to exercise these options the Group must satisfy certain financial and other obligations during the term of the agreement.
The options lapse in the event that the Group does not meet its financial obligations.
At any point in time, the Group may cancel the agreements without penalty, except where specified below.
These agreements are not under non-cancellable irrevocable clauses.
The Group continually reviews its requirements under the agreements and determines, on an annual basis, whether to proceed with its financial commitment.
Based on managements current intention regarding these projects, the commitments at the statement of financial position date are as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Commitment for the subsequent 12 months 3,300 350 More than one year 41,200 4,500 b Operating lease commitments The Group has a number of operating lease agreements, as a lessee.
The Group entered into leases for vehicles for the mine units.
These leases have a life of three years with renewal terms 15 days before the expiration and no purchase option.
The rent is payable based on fares depending on the type of the vehicle.
As at 31 December 2017 and 2016, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under the operating lease agreements are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 2,462 3,802 Later than one year and not later than five years 764 1,931 c Capital commitments For the year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Peru 15,925 14,296 Argentina 5,739 3,682 21,664 17,978 34 Contingencies As at 31 December 2017 the Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
No provision has been made in the financial statements and none of these claims are currently expected to result in any material loss to the Group.
a Taxation Fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities for four years in Peru and five years in Argentina and Mexico, preceding the year of review.
During this time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances, reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, coupled with the complexity of the Group and the transactions undertaken by it, there remains a risk that significant additional tax liabilities may arise.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had exposures totalling US$46,664,000 2016: US$43,931,000 which are assessed as possible, rather than probable.
No amounts have been provided in respect of these items.
This predominantly relates to potential tax penalties and related interest on intercompany loans.
Notwithstanding this risk, the Directors believe that managements interpretation of the relevant legislation and assessment of taxation is appropriate and that it is probable that the Groups tax and customs positions will be sustained in the event of a challenge by the tax authorities.
Consequently, the Directors consider that they have made adequate provision for any future outflow of resources and no additional provision is required in respect of these claims or risks.
b Guarantees The Group is required to provide guarantees in Peru in respect of environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations.
The Group has provided for the estimated cost of these activities see note 26.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 136 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35 Mining royalties Peru In accordance with Peruvian legislation, owners of mining concessions must pay a mining royalty for the exploitation of metallic and non metallic resources.
Mining royalties have been calculated with rates ranging from 1% to 3% of the value of mineral concentrate or equivalent sold, based on quoted market prices.
In October 2011 changes came into effect for mining companies, with the following features: a Intr oduction of a Special Mining Tax SMT, levied on mining companies at the stage of exploiting mineral resources.
The additional tax is calculated by applying a progressive scale of rates ranging from 2% to 8.4%, of the quarterly operating profit.
b Modification of the mining r oyalty calculation, which consists of applying a progressive scale of rates ranging from 1% to 12%, of the quarterly operating profit.
The former royalty was calculated on the basis of monthly sales value of mineral concentrates.
The SMT and modified mining royalty are accounted for as an income tax in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
c F or companies that have mining projects benefiting from tax stability regimes, mining royalties are calculated and recorded as they were previously, applying an additional new special charge on mining that is calculated using progressive scale rates, ranging from 4% to 13.12% of quarterly operatingprofit.
d In the case of the Ar cata mine unit, the Company left the tax stability agreement, but has maintained the agreement for the mining royalties, such that the Arcata unit is liable for the new SMT but the mining royalties remain payable at the same rate as they were, before the modification in 2011.
As at 31 December 2017, the amount payable as under the former mining royalty for the Arcata mining unit, the new mining royalty for the Ares, Pallancata and Inmaculada mining units, and the SMT amounted to US$108,000 2016: US$170,000, US$1,133,000 2016: US$769,000, and US$492,000 2016: US$737,000 respectively.
The former mining royalty is recorded as Trade and other payables, and the new mining royalty and SMT as Income tax payable in the Statement of Financial Position.
The amount recorded in the income statement was US$885,000 2016: US$1,759,000 representing the former mining royalty, classified as cost of sales, US$4,201,000 2016: US$3,882,000 of new mining royalty and US$2,229,000 2016: US$3,869,000 of SMT, both classified as income tax.
Argentina In accordance with Argentinian legislation, Provinces being the legal owners of the mineral resources are entitled to collect royalties from mine operators.
For San Jose, the mining royalty applicable to dor and concentrate is 3% of the pit-head value.
As at 31 December 2017, the amount payable as mining royalties amounted to US$576,000 2016: US$509,000.
The amount recorded in the income statement as cost of sales was US$5,792,000 2016: US$5,747,000.
36 Financial risk management The Group is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties which may have a financial impact on the Group and which also impact the achievement of social, economic and environmental objectives.
These risks include strategic, commercial, operational and financial risks and are further categorised into risk areas to facilitate consolidated risk reporting across the Group.
The Group has made significant developments in the management of the Groups risk environment which seeks to identify and, where appropriate, implement the controls to mitigate the impact of the Groups significant risks.
This effort is supported by a Risk Committee with the participation of the CEO, the Vice Presidents, and the head of the Internal Audit function.
The Risk Committee is responsible for implementing the Groups policy on risk management and internal control in support of the Companys business objectives, and monitoring the effectiveness of risk management within the organisation.
a Commodity price risk Silver and gold prices have a material impact on the Groups results of operations.
Prices are significantly affected by changes in global economic conditions and related industry cycles.
Generally, producers of silver and gold are unable to influence prices directly: therefore, the Groups profitability is ensured through the control of its cost base and the efficiency of its operations.
The Groups policy is generally to remain hedge free.
However, management continuously monitors silver and gold prices and reserves the right to take the necessary action, where appropriate and within Board approved parameters, to mitigate the impact of this risk.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 137 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information During 2017 the Group had no hedging instruments.
For the year ended 2016 the loss recognised in the income statement for the commodity swaps contracts signed was as follows: Effect on Average Average Income Price per oz Price per oz statement Year Oz Ag Oz Au Ag US$ Au US$ US$000 2016 8,999,997 115,000 From 14 1,181 18,722 to 17.60 The fair value of unsettled commodity forward contracts as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 is US$nil.
At 31 December 2017 and 2016 the Group is not exposed to commodity price risk on commodity forward contracts.
The Group has embedded derivatives arising from the sale of concentrate and dor which were provisionally priced at the time the sale was recorded refer to notes 5 and 36 e. For these derivatives, the sensitivity of the fair value to an immediate 10% favourable or adverse change in the price of gold and silver assuming all other variables remain constant, is as follows: Increase Effect on decrease in profit price of before tax Year ounces of: US$000 2017 Gold -10% -335 Silver -10% -542 2016 Gold -10% -647 Silver -10% -495 b Foreign currency risk The Group produces silver and gold which are typically priced in US dollars.
A proportion of the Groups costs are incurred in pounds sterling, Peruvian nuevos soles, Canadian dollars, Argentinian pesos and Mexican pesos.
Accordingly, the Groups financial results may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and the local currency.
The long-term relationship between commodity prices and currencies in the countries in which the Group operates provides a certain degree of natural protection.
The Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its foreign currency risks.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities, at the reporting date, denominated in their respective currencies, to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
Increase decrease in Effect on US$ other profit Effect on currencies before tax equity Year rate US$000 US$000 2017 Pounds sterling -10% -58 Argentinian pesos -10% 4,124 Mexican pesos -10% - 1,945 Peruvian nuevos soles -10% -864 Canadian dollars -10% -141 -567 Chilean pesos -10% 13 2016 Pounds sterling -10% -45 -95 Argentinian pesos -10% - 263 Mexican pesos -10% - 1,857 Peruvian nuevos soles -10% -834 Canadian dollars -10% -9 -3 Chilean pesos -10% - 55 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 138 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Financial risk management continued c Credit risk Credit risk arises from debtors inability to make payment of their obligations to the Group as they become due without taking into account the fair value of any guarantee or pledged assets.
The Group is primarily exposed to credit risk as a result of commercial activities and non compliance, by counterparties, in transactions in cash which are primarily limited to cash balances deposited in banks and accounts receivable at the statement of financial position date.
Counterparty credit exposure based on commercial activities, including trade receivables, embedded derivatives and cash balances in banks as at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016: As at % collected As at % collected 31 December as at 31 December as at 2017 19 February 2016 7 March Summary commercial partners US$000 2018 US$000 2017 Trade receivables 43,209 41% 36,821 76% As at As at 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 1 Cash and cash equivalents Credit rating US$000 US$000 A 6,651 A 20,700 64,017 A- 29,798 8,877 BBB 199,166 65,023 BBB 61 1,549 BBB- 6 NA 606 513 Total 256,988 139,979 1 The long-term credit rating as at 6 February 2018 2016: 31 January 2017.
To manage the credit risk associated with commercial activities, the Group took the following steps: Active use of prepayment advance clauses in sales contracts Delaying delivery of title and or requiring advance payments to reduce exposure timeframe potential delay in sales recognition Obtaining parent guarantees or contracting directly with parent company to shore up the credit profile of the customer where possible Maintaining as diversified a portfolio of clients as possible To manage credit risk associated with cash balances deposited in banks, the Group took the following steps: Increasing banking relationships with large, established and well-capitalised institutions in order to secure access to credit and to diversify credit risk Limiting exposure to financial counterparties according to Board approved limits Investing cash in short-term, highly liquid and low risk instruments money market accounts, term deposits, US Treasuries Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in notes 20, 22 and 36 e. d Equity risk on financial instruments The Group acquires financial instruments in connection with strategic alliances with third parties.
The Group constantly monitors the fair value of these instruments in order to decide whether or not it is convenient to dispose of these investments.
The disposal decision is also based on managements intention to continue with the strategic alliance, the tax implications and changes in the share price of the investee.
At 31 December 2017 the sensitivity to reasonable movements in the share price of available-for-sale financial assets of - 25% with all other variables held constant isUS$1,421,000 recognised in equity.
The amount held of investments at 31 December 2016 note 19 is not significant and the sensitivity to reasonable movements in the share price of available-for-sale financial assets is immaterial.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 139 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information e Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2017 and 2016, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: 31 December 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Equity shares note 19 5,383 5,683 Warrants note 19 1,333 1,333 1 Embedded derivatives 1,258 1,258 31 December 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Equity shares note 19 991 991 Liabilities measured at fair value 1 Embedded derivatives 1,726 1,726 1 S ales of concentrate and certain gold and silver volumes are provisionally priced at the time the sale is recorded.
The price is then adjusted after an agreed period of time usually linked to the length of time it takes for the smelter to refine and sell the concentrate or for the refiner to process the dor into gold and silver, with the Group either paying or receiving the difference between the provisional price and the final price.
This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The gain or loss that arises on the fair value of the embedded derivative is recorded in Revenue note 5.
During the period ending 31 December 2017 and 2016, there were no transfers between these levels.
The reconciliation of the financial instruments categorised as level 3 is as follows: Embedded derivatives liabilities US$000 Balance at 1 January 2016 1,141 1 Changes in fair value 10,328 1 Realised embedded derivatives during the period 9,743 Balance at 31 December 2016 1,726 1 Changes in fair value 2,160 1 Realised embedded derivatives during the period 824 Balance at 31 December 2017 1,258 1 The movement of the period has been recognised in Revenue note 5. f Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises from the Groups inability to obtain the funds it requires to comply with its commitments, including the inability to sell a financial asset quickly enough and at a price close to its fair value.
Management constantly monitors the Groups level of shortand medium-term liquidity, and their access to credit lines, in order to ensure appropriate financing is available for its operations.
The table below categorises the undiscounted cash flows of Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period as at the statement of financial position to the contractual maturity date.
Interest cash flows have been calculated using the spot rate at year-end.
Between Between Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 31 December 2017 Trade and other payables 104,121 352 939 105,412 Borrowings 82,832 22,845 329,043 434,720 Total 186,953 23,197 329,982 540,132 At 31 December 2016 Trade and other payables 90,373 340 1,020 227 91,960 Embedded derivative liability 1,726 1,726 Borrowings 50,408 22,845 351,888 425,141 Total 142,507 23,185 352,908 227 518,827 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 140 Hochschild Mining plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Financial risk management continued g Interest rate risk The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to interest rate risk.
Changes in interest rates primarily impact loans and borrowings by changing either their fair value fixed rate debt or their future cash flows variable rate debt.
The Group does not have a formal policy of determining how much of its exposure should be at fixed or at variable rates.
However, at the time of taking new loans or borrowings, management applies its judgement to decide whether it believes that a fixed or variable rate borrowing would be more favourable to the Group over the expected period until maturity.
As at 31 December 2017 Between Between Within 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Assets 192,172 192,172 Liabilities 67,863 291,955 359,818 Floating rate Assets 2,869 2,869 As at 31 December 2016 Between Between Within 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Assets 71,133 71,133 Liabilities 36,312 291,073 327,385 Floating rate Assets 203 203 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
The sensitivity to a reasonable movement in the interest rate, with all other variables held constant, of the financial instruments with a floating rate, determined as a -50bps change in interest rates has a -14,000 effect on profit before tax 2016: -6,000.
The Group is exposed to fluctuations in market interest rates.
This assumes that the amount remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2017 and 2016 and that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the year.
In reality, the floating rate will fluctuate over the year and interest rates will change accordingly.
h Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Management considers as part of its capital, the financial sources of funding from shareholders and third parties notes 25 and 27.
Management also retains the right to fund operations fully owned and with joint venture partners with a mix of equity and joint venture partners debt.
37 Subsequent events a A r estructuring plan has been established for the Arcata mining unit that includes the dismissal of approximately 165 employees.
This reduction is aligned with the exploitation plan 2018, which is lower than budgeted in 2017, and is scheduled to take place between the months of January and February 2018.
The process has been co-ordinated and communicated during January 2018 to the employees and the union.
The approximate cost associated with the indemnities is estimated to be around US$1,388,000.
b On 23 Januar y 2018 the Group redeemed in full all of the US$294,775,000 outstanding principal amount of the Senior Unsecured Notes of Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. refer to note 25 a.
The redemption price was US$317,620,062, that includes the principal amount of US$294,775,000, the total amount of unpaid interests of US$11,422,531 and a premium of US$11,422,531.
c On 10 Januar y 2018 the Group signed a short-term loan with Nova Scotia Bank of US$50,000,000 3 months LIBOR plus 0.32% and on 17 January 2018 signed a medium-term loan with Nova Scotia Bank of US$100,000,000 3 months LIBOR plus 0.70%.
The proceeds were employed to redeem the Senior Unsecured Notes of Compaia Minera Ares S. A. C. d On 2 January 2018 the Group issued 1,660,805 ordinary shares under the Restricted Share Plan, to certain employees of the Group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 141 Strategic Report Parent company statement of financial position Governance Financial statements As at 31 December 2017 Further information As at 31 December 2017 2016 Notes US$000 US$000 ASSETS Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries 5 2,336,010 1,844,725 2,336,010 1,844,725 Current assets Other receivables 6 10,463 8,824 Cash and cash equivalents 7 2,182 10,402 12,645 19,226 Total assets 2,348,655 1,863,951 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity share capital 8 224,315 224,315 Share premium 8 458,267 458,267 Treasury shares 8 140 426 Other reserves 7,634 5,869 Retained earnings 1,423,704 949,863 Total equity 2,113,780 1,637,888 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 9 3,500 5,194 Provisions 10 480 419 3,980 5,613 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 9 230,895 220,450 230,895 220,450 Total liabilities 234,875 226,063 Total equity and liabilities 2,348,655 1,863,951 The profit of the Company after tax amounted to US$487,315,000 2016: US$1,199,842,000.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Ignacio Bustamante Chief Executive Officer 20 February 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 142 Hochschild Mining plc Parent company statement of cash flows For the year ended 31 December 2017 Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 Notes US$000 US$000 Reconciliation of loss for the year to net cash used in operating activities Profit for the year 487,315 1,199,842 Adjustments to reconcile Company profit to net cash outflows from operating activities Reversal of impairment on investment in subsidiary 5 491,285 1,202,604 Share-based payments 449 563 Finance income 1,739 2,696 Finance costs 19 16 Income tax 1 Decrease increase of cash flows from operations due to changes in assets and liabilities Other receivables 484 476 Trade and other payables 235 541 Provision for Long-Term Incentive Plan 795 337 Cash used in operating activities 4,197 4,606 Interest received 45 121 Net cash used in operating activities 4,152 4,485 Cash flows from investing activities Net cash generated from investing activities Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 13,996 6,998 Repayment of borrowings 72 Loans from subsidiaries 10,000 Cash flows used in financing activities 4,068 6,998 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the year 8,220 11,483 Exchange difference 61 44 Other 61 44 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 10,402 21,885 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 7 2,182 10,402 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 143 Strategic Report Parent company statement of changes in equity Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Further information Other reserves Share-based Equity share Share Treasury payment Total other Retained capital premium shares reserve reserves earnings Total equity Notes US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 2016 223,805 458,267 898 4,655 4,655 244,605 441,224 Other comprehensive income Profit for the year 1,199,842 1,199,842 Total comprehensive profit for the year 1,199,842 1,199,842 Exercise of share options 8 510 472 2,223 2,223 1,241 Dividends 2 6,998 6,998 Share-based payments 2 3,437 3,437 383 3,820 Balance at 31 December 2016 224,315 458,267 426 5,869 5,869 949,863 1,637,888 Other comprehensive income Profit for the year 487,315 487,315 Total comprehensive profit for the year 487,315 487,315 Exercise of share options 8 286 48 48 238 Dividends 2 13,996 13,996 Share-based payments 2 1,813 1,813 760 2,573 Balance at 31 December 2017 224,315 458,267 140 7,634 7,634 1,423,704 2,113,780
