Annual Report & Accounts 2017 156 Hochschild Mining plc Shareholder information Company website Hochschild Mining plc Interim and Annual Reports and results announcements are available via the internet on our website at www.
Shareholders can also access the latest information about the Company and press announcements as they are released, together with details of future events and how to obtain further information.
Registrars The Registrars can be contacted as follows for information about the AGM, shareholdings, and dividends and to report changes in personal details: By post Link Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
By telephone If calling from the UK: 0371 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone company's access charge.
Lines are open 9.00am-5.30pm Mon to Fri excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
If calling from overseas: 44 371 664 0300 Calls charged at the applicable international rate.
Currency option and dividend mandate Shareholders wishing to receive their dividend in US dollars should contact the Companys registrars to request a currency election form.
This form should be completed and returned to the registrars 15 May 2018 in respect of the 2017 final dividend.
The Companys registrars can also arrange for the dividend to be paid directly into a shareholders UK bank account.
To take advantage of this facility in respect of the 2017 final dividend, a dividend mandate form, also available from the Companys registrars, should be completed and returned to the registrars by 15 May 2018.
This arrangement is only available in respect of dividends paid in UK Pounds Sterling.
Shareholders who have already completed one or both of these forms need take no further action.
Financial calendar Dividend dates 2018 Ex-dividend date 10 May Record date 11 May Deadline for return of currency election forms 15 May Payment date 1 June 17 Cavendish Square London W1G 0PH United Kingdom Forward looking statements The constituent parts of this Annual Report, including those that make up the Directors Report, contain certain forward-looking statement, including such statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In particular, such forward looking statements may relate to matters such as the business, strategy, investments, production, major projects and their contribution to expected production and other plans of Hochschild Mining plc and its current goals, assumptions and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results.
Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements typically containing words such as intends, expects, anticipates, targets, plans, estimates and words of similar import.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
Actual results, performance or achievements of Hochschild Mining plc may be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to differences between the actual results, performance or achievements of Hochschild Mining plc and current expectations include, but are not limited to, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, competitive conditions, technological developments, exchange rate fluctuations and general economic conditions.
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent financial adviser.
The forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report.
Except as required by the Listing Rules and applicable law, Hochschild Mining plc does not undertake any obligation to update or change any forward looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date of this announcement.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Printed by CPI Colour This document is printed on material derived from sustainable sources, and printed using vegetable based inks.
Both the manufacturing paper mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Designed and produced by SampsonMay Telephone: 020 7403 4099 www.
com Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 17 Cavendish Square London W1G 0PH United Kingdom 44 0 203 709 3260 info@hocplc.
