Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 134 Glossary and definitions Acquisition costs acquisition costs comprise the direct costs fide-risk fide-risking an action carried out by the trustees of a pension suchas commissions of obtaining new business.
scheme with the aim of transferring investment, inflation and longevity risk from the sponsoring employer and scheme to a third Adjusted earnings per share an APM, this measures earnings per party such as an insurer.
share based on adjusted operating profit after attributed tax, rather than IFRS profit before tax.
This measure is calculated by taking the Drawdown in reference to Just Group sales or products collective adjusted operating profit APM, reduced for the effective tax rate term for Flexible Pension Plan and Capped Drawdown.
19.25% for 2017, and dividing this result by the weighted average number of shares in issue by the Group for the period.
Economic capital coverage ratio an APM and one of the Groups KPIs, economic capital is a key risk-based capital measure and Adjusted operating profit an APM and one of the Groups KPIs, this expresses the Boards view of the available capital as a percentage of is the sum ofthe new business operating profit and in-force operating the required capital.
profit together with the impact of one-off assumption changes, experience variances, results of the other Group companies and Employee benefits consultant EBC an adviser offering specialist financing costs.
Adjusted operating profit is reconciled to IFRS profit knowledge to employers on the legal, regulatory and practical issues before tax on page 33. of rewarding staff including non-wage compensation such as pensions, health and life insurance and profit sharing.
Alternative performance measure APM in addition to statutory IFRS performance measures, the Group has presented a number of Equity release products and services enabling homeowners to non-statutory alternative performance measures APMs within the generate income or lump sums by accessing some of the value of Annual Report & Accounts.
The Board believes that the APMs used thehome while continuing to live in it.
give a more representative view of the underlying performance of the Group.
APMs are identified in this glossary together with a reference European embedded value EEV an APM and one of the Groups to where the APM has been reconciled to its nearest statutory KPIs.
EEV represents the sum of shareholders net assets and the equivalent.
APMs which are also KPIs are indicated as such.
value of in-force business, and is a key measure in assessing the future profit streams of the Groups long-term business.
It also Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets amortisation recognises the additional value of profits in the business that has costs relate to the amortisation of the Groups intangible assets, been written but not yet recognised under IFRS accounting.
European including the amortisation of intangible assets recognised in relation embedded value is reconciled to IFRS net equity on page 27. to the acquisition of Partnership Assurance Group plc by Just Retirement Group plc.
Finance costs finance costs represent interest payable on reinsurance deposits and financing, the interest on the Groups Auto-enrolment new legal duties being phased in that require Tier2Notes, and, in the prior year, bank finance costs.
employers to automatically enrol workers into a workplace pension.
Flexi-access drawdown the option introduced in April 2015 for Buy-in an exercise enabling a pension scheme to obtain an DCpension savers who have taken tax-free cash to take a taxable insurance contract that pays a guaranteed stream of income income directly from their remaining pension with no limit on sufficient to cover the liabilities of a group of the schemes members.
Buy-out an exercise that wholly transfers the liability for paying Gross premiums written gross premiums written are the total member benefits from the pension scheme to an insurer which then premiums received by the Group in relation to its Retirement Income becomes responsible for paying the members directly.
and Protection sales in the period, gross of commission paid.
Capped Drawdown a non-marketed product from Just Group Guaranteed Guidance see Pensions Wise on page 135. previously described as Fixed Term Annuity.
Capped Drawdown products ceased to be available to new customers when the tax Guaranteed income for life GIfL retirement income products legislation changed for pensions in April 2015. which transfer the investment and longevity risk to the company and provide the retiree a guarantee to pay an agreed level of income for Care Plan a specialist insurance contract contributing to the costs as long as a retiree lives.
On a joint-life basis, continues to pay a oflong-term care by paying a guaranteed income to a registered care guaranteed income to a surviving spouse partner.
Just provides provider for the remainder of a persons life.
modern individually underwritten GIfL solutions.
Change in insurance liabilities change in insurance liabilities IFRS net assets one of the Groups KPIs, representing the assets represents the difference between the year-on-year change in the attributable to equity holders.
carrying value of the Groups insurance liabilities and the year-onyear change in the carrying value of the Groups reinsurance assets IFRS profit before tax one of the Groups KPIs, representing the including the effect of the impact of reinsurance recaptures.
profit before tax attributable to equity holders.
Combined Group Just Group following completion of the merger In-force operating profit an APM and one of the Groups KPIs, with Partnership Assurance Group plc, Just Group plc and each of its capturing the expected margin to emerge from the in-force book of consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings comprising business andfree surplus, and results from the gradual release of theJust Retirement Group and the Partnership Assurance Group.
prudent reserving margins over the lifetime of the policies.
In-force operating profit is reconciled to IFRS profit before tax on page 33.
Defined benefit pension scheme a pension scheme, usually backed or sponsored by an employer, that pays members a guaranteed level of retirement income based on length of membership and earnings.
Defined contribution DC pension scheme a work-based or personal pension scheme in which contributions are invested to build up a fund that can be used by the individual member to provide retirement benefits.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Financial Statements 135 Investment and economic profits investment and economic profits Other operating expenses other operating expenses represent reflect the difference in the period between expected investment theGroups operational overheads, including personnel expenses, returns, based on investment and economic assumptions at the investment expenses and charges, depreciation of equipment, startof the period, and the actual returns earned.
Investment and reinsurance fees, operating leases, amortisation of intangibles, economic profits also reflect the impact of assumption changes in andother expenses incurred in running the Groups operations.
future expected risk-free rates, corporate bond defaults and house price inflation and volatility.
Pension Freedoms Pension Freedom and Choice Pension Reforms the UK Governments pension reforms, implemented in April 2015.
Key performance indicators KPIs KPIs are metrics adopted by the Board which are which are considered to give an understanding Pensions Wise the free and impartial service introduced in April ofthe Groups underlying performance drivers.
The Groups KPIs are 2015 to provide Guaranteed Guidance to defined contribution New business sales, New business operating profit, In-force operating pension savers considering taking money from their pensions.
profit, Adjusted operating profit, IFRS profit before tax, IFRS net assets, European embedded value, Solvency II capital coverage PrognoSys a next generation underwriting system, which is based ratioand Economic capital coverage ratio.
on individual mortality curves derived from Just Groups own data collected since its launch in 2004.
Lifetime mortgages an equity release product that allows homeowners to take out a loan secured on the value of their home, Retirement Income sales in reference to Just Group sales or typically with the loan plus interest repaid when the home is no products collective term for GIfL, DB and Care Plan.
Retirement sales in reference to Just Group sales or products Medical underwriting the process of evaluating an individuals collective term for Retirement Income sales and Drawdown.
current health, medical history and lifestyle factors such as smoking when pricing an insurance contract.
Regulated financial advice personalised financial advice for retail customers by qualified advisers who are regulated by the Financial New business operating profit an APM and one of the Groups KPIs, Conduct Authority.
representing the profit generated from new business written in the year after allowing for the establishment of prudent reserves and for Reinsurance and finance costs the interest on subordinated debt, acquisition expenses.
New business operating profit is reconciled to bank loans and reinsurance financing, together with reinsurance IFRS profit before tax on page 33. feesincurred.
New business sales an APM and one of the Groups KPIs and a key Simplified advice regulated financial advice offering a limited indicator of the Groups growth and realisation of its strategic service on a limited or specialist area of financial need, such as objectives.
New business sales include DB, GIfL, Care, FPP and retirement, to retail customers taking into account information protection premiums written combined with LTM advances in the relevant to that need.
New business sales are reconciled to IFRS Gross premiums on page 99.
Solvency II an EU Directive that codifies and harmonises the EU insurance regulation.
Primarily this concerns the amount of capital Net claims paid net claims paid represents the total payments due that EU insurance companies must hold to reduce the risk of to policyholders during the accounting period, less the reinsurers insolvency.
share of such claims which are payable back to the Group under the terms of the reinsurance treaties.
Solvency II capital coverage ratio one of the Groups KPIs.
SolvencyII capital is the regulatory capital measure and is focused Net investment income net investment income comprises interest on by the Board in capital planning and business planning alongside received on financial assets and the net gains and losses on financial the economic capital measure.
It expresses the regulatory view of assets designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial theavailable capital as a percentage of the required capital.
recognition and on financial derivatives.
Trustees individuals with the legal powers to hold, control and Net premium revenue net premium revenue represents the sum of administer the property of a trust such as a pension scheme for the gross premiums written and reinsurance recapture, less reinsurance purposes specified in the trust deed.
Pension scheme trustees are premium ceded.
obliged to act in the best interests of the schemes members.
Non-recurring and project expenditure non-recurring and project Underlying operating profit an APM and the sum of the new expenditure includes any one-off regulatory, project and business operating profit and in-force operating profit.
This line item does not include acquisition measure excludes the impact of one-off assumption changes and integration, or acquisition transaction costs, which are shown as investment variances, the Board considers it to be a key indicator of separate line items.
the progress of the business and a useful measure for investors and analysts when assessing the Groups financial performance.
Operating experience and assumption changes captures the Underlying operating profit is reconciled to IFRS profit before tax on impact of the actual operating experience differing from that page 33. assumed at the start of the period, plus the impact of changes to future operating assumptions applied during the period.
It also includes the impact of any expense reserve movements, and other sundry operating items.
Other Group companies operating results the results of Group companies including HUB, which provides regulated advice and intermediary services, and professional services to corporates, andcorporate costs incurred by Group holding companies and the overseas start-ups.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 136 Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 Just Group plc Vale House Roebuck Close Bancroft Road Reigate Surrey RH2 7RU justgroupplc.
