FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Consolidated ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 1 Authorisation of Consolidated Financial Statements and statement of compliance with IFRS The Consolidated Financial Statements of Computacenter plc Parent Company or the Company and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 13 March 2018.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet was signed on behalf of the Board by MJ Norris and FA Conophy.
Computacenter plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England whose shares are publicly traded.
The Groups Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, except for the adoption of new and amended IFRS that are applicable to the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Adoption of these standards did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group.
The other pronouncements which came into force during the year were not relevant to the Group.
The following new or revised standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board have not been applied in preparing these accounts as their effective dates fall in years beginning after 31 December 2017.
Managements assessment of the impact and accepted best practice is ongoing of the three new standards discussed in detail below.
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15.
IFRS 15 becomes effective for the Group on 1 January 2018.
The guidance permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented full retrospective method, or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognised at the date of initial application the cumulative catch-up transition method.
Further analysis of the impact of transition to IFRS 15 has been performed since the publication of our 2017 Interim Report where we highlighted our preliminary analysis.
Due to the change in the primary indicators used to assess the agent principal presentation of revenue, from the previous standard to IFRS 15, the judgements held under the previous standard have been reviewed.
Our preliminary assessment was based upon our general contractual terms and conditions.
Following this process, we concluded that there was a finely balanced judgement which would result in a change in presentation of our Supply Chain Software revenues and, potentially, certain Resold Service revenues to agency revenue on a net basis compared to the current presentation as gross principal revenue.
Following further evaluation, including detailed analysis of how terms and conditions are applied in practice, the weighting applied to the agent principal indicators and evaluation of emerging practice, we have concluded that, whilst this remains a finely balanced judgement, no change to the presentation of those revenue streams is required on transition to IFRS 15.
Revenue for these items will continue to be presented gross from 1 January 2018, when this assessment will form part of the critical judgements for the Group.
In our 2017 Interim Report, we also reported that an adjustment was expected in relation to onerous contracts, as fewer onerous contract provisions were expected to be required from 1 January 2018.
Our current practice is to account for onerous contracts under IAS 11, Construction contracts.
Under IAS 11, certain costs, such as allocated overheads, are allowed to be taken into account when considering what constitutes unavoidable costs of a contract, impacting whether the contract is considered to be onerous.
From 1 January 2018 onwards, IAS 11 will no longer be applicable and onerous contracts will need to be considered under IAS 37, Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
At the date of publication of our 2017 Interim Report, we believed that IAS 37 did not allow for the inclusion of overheads as unavoidable costs when considering if a contract is onerous.
We thus concluded that our approach would need to change from 1 January 2018.
Subsequent to the publication of our 2017 Interim Report, we became aware of an agenda decision published by the IFRS Interpretations Committee outlining that the current wording of IAS 37 allows for two interpretations of what can constitute unavoidable costs when determining whether a contract is onerous.
One of the acceptable interpretations noted by the Committee is in line with our current practice: to consider costs such as overhead allocations as unavoidable.
The matter has been put on the agenda for future discussion at the IFRS Interpretations Committee with a view to drafting clarifications to IAS 37.
Until such time as there is clarity on this matter, we have concluded that our current approach remains acceptable.
As a result, we do not expect to change our method for the assessment of onerous contracts upon transition to IFRS 15.
On transition, the Group plans to adopt IFRS 15 using the cumulative effect method, with the effect of initially applying this standard recognised at the date of initial application i. e. 1 January 2018.
As a result, the Group will not apply the requirements of IFRS 15 to the comparative period presented.
As noted in our 2017 Interim Report, upon transition to IFRS 15, we continue to expect adjustments in relation to: certain costs, such as win fees a form of commission will need to be capitalised and spread over the life of the contract, as opposed to being expensed as incurred: and certain elements of our Managed Services contracts, for example those relating to Entry into Service, will no longer be treated as separate performance obligations for which revenue and costs are recognised as incurred, but rather will be treated as part of the ongoing performance obligations in the contract.
This will result in the revenue and costs for Entry into Service being recognised over the life of the contracts.
109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The expected impact of these items to our equity as at 1 January 2018 is summarised in the table below.
There is no impact on cash flows nor on the ultimate long-term cumulative profits of the Group.
Estimated Estimated opening As reported at adjustments due to balance at 31 December 2017 adoption of IFRS 15 1 January 2018 000 000 000 Translation and hedging reserves 27,859 109 27,968 Retained earnings 284,178 8,024 292,202 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Finalised version, incorporating requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, general hedge accounting and derecognition IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 and will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
From the point of the Group, IFRS 9 has introduced three key changes when compared to IAS 39: the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities: impairment of financial assets, an introduction of Expected Credit Loss ECL model: and Hedge accounting, which provides for simplified hedge accounting by aligning hedge accounting more closely with an entitys risk management methodology.
The Group has evaluated the impact of IFRS 9 and based on preliminary assessment of the impact, we concluded that it does not expect a material impact on the recognition and measurement of income and costs in the Consolidated Income Statement or of assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Group has assessed the classification and measurement of certain financial assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and concluded that that whilst there will be changes in classification, there is no expected material impact on results.
Further, the nature of the Groups cash flow hedge arrangements and the significance of its bad debt risk means that the impact of IFRS 9 will be immaterial in respect of these items.
IFRS 9 requires certain additional disclosures, in particular which the Group will make in the future.
Effective for the year ending 31 December 2019 IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16.
IFRS 16 will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 represents a significant change in the accounting and reporting of leases for lessees as it provides a single lessee accounting model, and as such, requires lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the underlying asset has a low value or the lease term is 12 months or less.
Accounting requirements for lessors are substantially unchanged from IAS 17.
IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a right-of-use asset for all lease contracts.
Therefore, the substantial majority of the Groups operating lease commitments some 147.5 million on an undiscounted basis, as shown in note 24 of the Consolidated Financial Statements would be brought on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and amortised and depreciated separately.
There will be no impact on cash flows although the presentation of the cash flow statement will change significantly.
Management has implemented a new system to enable to report under IFRS 16, however the work on the new processes is ongoing.
Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on the historical cost basis other than derivative financial instruments, which are stated at fair value.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company, using existing GAAP in each country of operation.
Adjustments are made on consolidation for differences that may exist between the respective local GAAPs and IFRS.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profit and losses resulting from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control and cease to be consolidated from the date on which the Group no longer retains control.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented separately within equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, separately from Parent shareholders equity.
110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2.2.
Foreign currency translation The Groups presentation currency is pounds sterling.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the Financial Statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the Consolidated Balance Sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of initial transaction.
The functional currencies of the material overseas subsidiaries are euro, US dollar US$, South African rand ZAR and Swiss franc CHF.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their Consolidated Income Statements are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts and rebates given to customers, VAT and other sales tax or duty.
In contracts with customers, where more than one good Supply Chain or service Professional Services or Managed Services is provided to the customer, consideration is allocated between Supply Chain, Professional Services and Managed Services using relative fair value principal.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: 2.3.
Supply Chain The Group supplies hardware and software together as goods to customers that is sourced from and delivered by a number of suppliers.
Supply Chain revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer, usually on dispatch of goods.
Professional Services The Group provides skilled professionals to customers either on a resource on demand basis where the revenue is billed on a timesheet basis, or operating within a project framework where revenue is recognised with reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs percentage of completion basis of the contract.
Unbilled revenue is recognised within accrued income.
If the total estimated costs and revenues of a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised only to the extent that costs have been incurred.
A provision is made as soon as a loss is foreseen.
Managed Services The Group sells maintenance, support and management of customers IT infrastructures and operations.
The Group identifies individual revenue generating activities or performance obligations within each contract and allocates revenue between them.
This revenue is then assessed for recognition purposes based on the nature of the activity.
Managed Services revenue is recognised over the term of the contract as services are delivered.
Unearned Managed Services revenue is included within deferred income in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Amounts invoiced relating to more than one year are deferred and recognised over the relevant period.
Where a contract contains several elements, the individual elements are accounted for separately where appropriate and revenue thereon is measured at the fair value of the consideration received.
The related costs are recognised as they are incurred.
However, a portion of costs incurred in the initial phase of outsourcing contracts Entry into Service and or transformation costs may be deferred when they are specific to a given contract and or will generate future economic benefits, and are recoverable.
These costs are allocated to accrued income and any reimbursement by the client is recorded as a deduction from the costs incurred.
On a limited number of Managed Services contracts revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis which is determined by reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the contract see note 3.1.
If a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is restricted to the extent that it is probable that costs incurred will be recoverable.
Bid and set-up costs The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and is frequently involved in contract bids with multiple competitors with the outcome usually unknown until the contract is awarded and signed.
Any bid costs incurred by the Groups Central Bid Management Engines are not capitalised or charged to the contract, but instead directly charged to selling, general and administrative expenses as they are incurred.
These costs associated with bids are not separately identifiable nor can they be measured reliably as the Groups internal bid teams work across multiple bids at any one time.
Further, it cannot be assessed as probable that the contract will be obtained until the tender process has completed and the contract has been awarded.
111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.3.
Finance income Income is recognised as interest accrues.
Operating lease income Rental income arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior years and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Adjusted measures The Group uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice non-GAAP financial measures in addition to those reported in accordance with IFRS.
The Directors believe that these non-GAAP measures, listed below, are important when assessing the underlying financial and operating performance of the Group.
These non-GAAP measures comprise of: Adjusted operating profit or loss, adjusted profit or loss before tax, adjusted tax, adjusted profit or loss for the year, adjusted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share are, as appropriate, each stated before: exceptional and other adjusting items including gain or loss on business disposals, gain or loss on disposal of investment properties, amortisation of acquired intangibles, utilisation of deferred tax assets where initial recognition was as an exceptional item or a fair value adjustment on acquisition, and the related tax effect of these exceptional and other adjusting items, as Management do not consider these items when reviewing the underlying performance of the Segment or the Group as a whole.
Additionally, adjusted gross profit or loss and adjusted operating profit or loss includes the interest paid on customer-specific financing CSF which Management considers to be a cost of sale.
A reconciliation between key adjusted and statutory measures is provided on page 49 of the Group Finance Directors review which details the impact of exceptional and other adjusted items when comparing to the non-GAAP financial measures in addition to those reported in accordance with IFRS.
Further detail is also provided within note 4, Segment Information.
Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where an asset does not have independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is assessed for the cash generating unit CGU to which it belongs.
Certain other corporate assets are unable to be allocated against specific CGUs.
These assets are tested across an aggregation of CGUs that utilise the asset.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value-in-use of the asset or CGU.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the Group estimates the assets or CGUs recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment was recognised.
The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
As the Group has no assets carried at revalued amounts, such reversal is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation, down to residual value, is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: freehold buildings: 25-50 years short leasehold improvements: shorter of seven years and period to expiry of lease fixtures and fittings head office: 5-15 years other: shorter of seven years and period to expiry of lease office machinery and computer hardware: 2-15 years motor vehicles: three years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the Consolidated Income Statement in the year the item is derecognised.
112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2.8.
Leases Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Investment property Investment property is defined as land and or buildings held by the Group to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both, rather than for sale in the ordinary course of business or for use in the supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
The Group recognises any part of an owned or leased under a finance lease property that is leased to third parties as investment property, unless it represents an insignificant portion of the property.
Investment property is measured initially at cost including transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group elects to measure investment property at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any i. e. applying the same accounting policies including useful lives as for property, plant and equipment.
The fair values, which reflect the market conditions as at the balance sheet date, are disclosed in note 14.
Software and software licences Software and software licences include computer software that is not integral to a related item of hardware.
These assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
Currently software is amortised over four years.
The carrying values of software and software licences are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Software under development Costs that are incurred and that can be specifically attributed to the development phase of management information systems for internal use are capitalised and amortised over their useful life, once the asset becomes available for use.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are carried initially at fair value.
Following initial recognition intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment in value.
Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives with charges included in administrative expenses as follows: existing customer contracts: five years existing customer relationships: 10 years tools and technology: seven years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the acquisition method.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as goodwill and is not amortised.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related CGU monitored by Management, usually at business Segment level or statutory Company level as the case may be.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value after making allowance for any obsolete or slow-moving items.
Costs include those incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, on a First-In, First-Out basis.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.12.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised at their fair value which initially equates to the consideration given plus directly attributable transaction costs associated with the investment.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification as described in each category below: 2.12.1.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90-day credit terms, are recognised and carried at their original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Current asset investments Current asset investments comprise deposits held for a term of greater than three months from the date of deposit and which are not available to the Group on demand.
Subsequent to initial measurement, current asset investments are measured at fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the Consolidated Balance Sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand, and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are initially recognised at their fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as described in each category below: 2.13.1.
Provisions excluding Restructuring provision Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Customer contract provisions In respect of contracts where revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis, and where the performance of one of these limited number of contracts results in a margin that was less than anticipated at the time that it was agreed, then the future financial performance of that contract will be reviewed in detail.
If, after further financial analysis, the full financial consequence of the contract can be reliably estimated, and it is determined that the contract is potentially loss-making, then the best estimate of the losses expected to be incurred until the end of the contract will be provided for.
The Group has elected to apply IAS 11 in its assessment of whether contracts are considered onerous and in subsequently estimating the provision as IAS 18 considers the requirements of IAS 11 are generally applicable to the recognition of revenue and the associated expenses for a transaction involving the rendering of services.
A contract that is accounted for under IAS 11 that is considered potentially onerous is assessed according to the recognition of expected losses in IAS 11 ahead of the onerous contract guidance in IAS 37 and considers total estimated costs i. e. directly attributable variable costs and fixed allocated costs as included in the assessment of whether the contract is onerous or not and in the measurement of the provision.
Restructuring provisions The Group recognises a restructuring provision when there is a programme planned and controlled by Management that changes materially the scope of the business or the manner in which it is conducted.
Further to the Groups general provision recognition policy, a restructuring provision is only considered when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring identifying, as a minimum: the business or part of the business concerned: the principal locations affected: the location, function and approximate number of employees who will be compensated for terminating their services: the expenditures that will be undertaken and when the plan will be implemented.
The Group will only recognise a specific restructuring provision once a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement that plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The Group only includes incremental costs associated directly with the restructuring within the restructuring provisions such as employee termination benefits and consulting fees.
The Group specifically excludes from recognition in a restructuring provision any costs associated with ongoing activities such as the costs of training or relocating staff that are redeployed within the business rather than retrenched and costs for employees who continue to be employed in ongoing operations, regardless of the status of these operations post restructure.
114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2.13.3.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme available to all UK employees.
Contributions are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
There are no material pension schemes within the Groups overseas operations.
The Group has an obligation to make a one-off payment to French employees upon retirement, the Indemnits fide Fin fide Carrire IFC.
French employment law requires that a company pays employees a one-time contribution when, and only when, the employee leaves the Company for retirement at the mandatory age.
This is a legal requirement for all businesses who incur the obligation upon departure, due to retirement, of an employee.
Typically the retirement benefit is based on length of service of the employee and his or her salary at retirement.
The amount is set via a legal minimum but the retirement premiums can be improved by the collective agreement or employment contract in some cases.
In Computacenter France, the payment is based on accrued service and ranges from one month of salary after five years of service to 9.4 months of salary after 47 years of service.
If the employee leaves voluntarily at any point before retirement, all liability is extinguished and any accrued service is not transferred to any new employment.
Management continues to account for this obligation according to IAS 19 revised.
Due to the materiality of the obligation, Management considers no further disclosures are relevant at this time.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its foreign currency risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations affecting cash flows from forecasted transactions and unrecognised firm commitments.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the effectiveness of changes in the hedging instruments fair value in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in cash flows and are addressed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting years for which they are designated.
Forward contracts are initially recognised at fair value on the date that the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Forward contracts are recorded as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm commitment.
Cash flow hedges that meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement in administrative expenses.
Amounts recognised within other comprehensive income are transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement, within administrative expenses, when the hedged transaction affects the Consolidated Income Statement, such as when the hedged financial expense is recognised.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement within administrative expenses.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised within Consolidated Other Comprehensive Income remains within Consolidated Other Comprehensive Income until after the forecast transaction or firm commitment affects the Consolidated Income Statement.
Any other gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on forward contracts are taken directly to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.16.
Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior years are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available in the future against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses, can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to the statement of comprehensive income if it relates to items that are credited or charged to the statement of comprehensive income.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Share-based payment transactions Employees including Executive Directors of the Group can receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the award at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by utilising an appropriate valuation model, further details of which are given in note 29.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions as none of the conditions set are market-related.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date, until the vesting date, reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Directors best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The Consolidated Income Statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
As the schemes do not include any market-related performance conditions, no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share see note 11.
The Group has an employee share trust for the granting of non-transferable options to executives and senior employees.
Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as investment in own shares and are recorded at cost as a deduction from equity see note 28.
Fair value measurement The Group measures certain financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
Fair value related disclosures for financial instruments that are measured at fair value or where fair values are disclosed, are summarised in note 26.
Own shares held Computacenter plc shares held by the Group are classified in shareholders equity as own shares held and are recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires Management to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making these critical judgements and estimates, actual outcomes could be different.
During the year, Management set aside time to consider the critical accounting estimates and judgements for the Group.
This process included reviewing the last reporting periods disclosures, the key judgements required on the implementation of forthcoming standards such as IFRS 15 and 16 and the current periods challenging accounting issues.
Where Management deemed an area of accounting to be no longer a critical estimate or judgement, an explanation for this decision is found in the relevant accounting notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Critical estimates Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years affected.
The areas involving significant risk resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: 3.1.
Services revenue recognition The Group accounted for certain Services contracts using the percentage of completion method, recognising revenue by reference to the stage of completion of the contract which is determined by actual costs incurred as a proportion of total forecast contract costs.
This method places considerable importance on accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion of the contract and may involve estimates on the scope of services required for fulfilling the contractually defined obligations.
These significant estimates include total contract costs, total contract revenues, contract risks, including technical risks, and other assumptions.
Under the percentage of completion method, the changes in these estimates and assumptions may lead to an increase or decrease in revenue recognised at the balance sheet date with the in-year revenue recognition appropriately adjusted as required.
When the outcome of the contract cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that expenses incurred are eligible to be recovered.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration.
The key judgements are the extent to which revenue should be recognised and also, where total contract costs are not covered by total contract revenue, the extent to which an adjustment is required.
Additionally, where contracts are renegotiated mid-life, Management will consider when to make a revenue adjustment.
During the year, Management held a number of difficult contracts under review that were considered to be performing below expectation.
The number of contracts under review fluctuated during the year between seven and 12 2016: eight and 12.
Each contract was subject to a detailed review to consider the reasons behind the lower than anticipated performance and the potential accounting impacts related effect on revenue recognition estimates.
For a limited number of these difficult contracts, where there was no immediate operational or commercial remedy for the performance, a range of possible outcomes for the estimate of the total contract costs and total contract revenues was considered to determine the best estimate of stage of completion.
The gross revenue recognised in the year from these contracts under review was approximately 53.6 million 2016: 10.4 million.
The range of potential scenarios considered by management in respect of these specific contracts resulted in a reduction in revenue, and margins, recognised in 2017 of 4.0 million 2016: 4.1 million, in the year.
Also, based on Managements best estimate, the total cost to complete on these contracts were 48.0 million 2016: 26.6 million.
Critical judgements Judgements made by Management in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements, are as follows: 3.2.
Exceptional items Exceptional items remain a core focus of Management with the recent Alternative Performance Measure regulations providing further guidance in this area.
1 Management is required to exercise its judgement in the classification of certain items as exceptional and outside of the Groups adjusted results.
The overall goal of Management is to present the Groups underlying performance without distortion from one-off or non-trading events regardless of whether they be favourable or unfavourable to the underlying result.
To achieve this, Management have considered the materiality, infrequency and nature of the various items classified as exceptional this year against the requirements and guidance provided by IAS 1, our Group accounting policies and the recent regulatory interpretations and guidance.
In reaching their conclusions, Management consider not only the effect on the overall underlying Group performance but also where an item is critical in understanding the performance of its component Segments which is of relevance to investors and analysts when assessing the Group result and its future prospects as a whole.
Further details of the individual exceptional items, and the reasons for their disclosure treatment, are set out in note 6.
Change in critical estimates and critical judgements During the year, Management reassessed the critical estimates and critical judgements and resolved that no change was needed from last year in critical estimates and critical judgements.
117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 4 Segment information For Management purposes, the Group is organised into geographical Segments, with each Segment determined by the location of the Groups assets and operations.
The Groups business in each geography is managed separately and held in separate statutory entities.
No operating Segments have been aggregated to form the below reportable operating Segments.
Management monitors the operating results of its geographical Segments separately for the purposes of making decisions about resource allocation 1 and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on adjusted operating profit or loss which is measured differently from statutory operating profit or loss in the Consolidated Financial Statements as defined above.
Restatement The revenue for work performed by other Computacenter entities on behalf of several key French contracts has been reclassified to the French Segment, consistent with the way information is reported and monitored internally.
Historically these revenues have been recorded in the Segment where the associated underlying subsidiary recognises the revenues in their statutory accounts.
For Segmental analysis, all of our offshore internal service provider entities e. g. Computacenter USA are allocated to the UK Segment apart from Computacenter Switzerland which is within the German Segment.
As the work performed in certain offshore subsidiaries has grown within the UK Segment, Management decided to reallocate these revenues interSegmentally to reflect better where the portfolio co-ordination and operational responsibility lies and where the benefits should accrue.
We have therefore restated the French and UK Managed Services revenue for 2016, to assist with understanding the growth in each business and to ensure period-on-period comparisons reflect true underlying growth.
This has no impact on Group revenue or on Segmental profitability, as the margins were previously shared on the same basis that the revenue now reflects.
All discussion within this Annual Report and Accounts on Segmental Managed Services revenues for the UK and France reflect this reclassification and resultant prior period restatement.
Segmental performance for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 was as follows: Year ended 31 December 2017 UK Germany France Belgium Total 000 000 000 000 000 Revenue Supply Chain revenue 990,578 1,200,871 405,139 39,606 2,636,194 Services revenue Professional Services revenue 147,549 151,306 18,120 2,181 319,156 Managed Services revenue 358,237 372,823 86,684 20,277 838,021 Total Services revenue 505,786 524,129 104,804 22,458 1,157,177 Total revenue 1,496,364 1,725,000 509,943 62,064 3,793,371 Results 1 Adjusted gross profit 214,454 219,149 53,539 8,928 496,070 1 Adjusted administrative expenses 176,178 158,855 47,931 7,619 390,583 1 Adjusted operating profit 38,276 60,294 5,608 1,309 105,487 1 Adjusted net interest 522 424 193 11 742 1 Adjusted profit before tax 38,798 60,718 5,415 1,298 106,229 Exceptional items: onerous contracts provision for future losses 1,371 1,371 exceptional losses on redundancy and other restructuring costs gain on reversal of fair value adjustments Total exceptional items 1,371 1,371 Exceptional loss on disposal of a subsidiary Exceptional gain on disposal of an investment property 4,320 4,320 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 133 92 225 Statutory profit before tax 43,118 61,956 5,415 1,206 111,695 118 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1 The reconciliation for adjusted operating profit to statutory operating profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement is as follows: UK Germany France Belgium Total 000 000 000 000 000 1 Adjusted operating profit 38,276 60,294 5,608 1,309 105,487 Add-back interest on CSF 2 157 159 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 133 92 225 Exceptional items 1,371 1,371 Statutory operating profit 38,278 61,689 5,608 1,217 106,792 Other segment information Property, plant and equipment 42,034 27,920 6,262 1,688 77,904 Investment property Intangible assets 56,352 21,953 28 2,002 80,335 Capital expenditure: Property, plant and equipment 10,520 18,910 949 60 30,439 Software 8,494 1,110 9 5 9,618 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7,866 6,625 1,736 157 16,384 Depreciation of investment property 91 91 Amortisation of software 11,104 1,110 21 2 12,237 Share-based payments 5,068 1,211 79 6,200 119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 4 Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2016 Restated Restated UK Germany France Belgium Total 000 000 000 000 000 Revenue Supply Chain revenue 899,822 934,214 335,612 37,907 2,207,555 Services revenue Professional Services revenue 118,636 138,218 15,470 1,868 274,192 Managed Services revenue 373,292 319,744 53,627 16,987 763,650 Reclassification of Managed Services revenue 15,820 15,820 Managed Services revenue 357,472 319,744 69,447 16,987 763,650 Total Services revenue 476,108 457,962 84,917 18,855 1,037,842 Total revenue 1,375,930 1,392,176 420,529 56,762 3,245,397 Results 1 Adjusted gross profit 202,556 175,273 42,520 7,479 427,828 1 Adjusted administrative expenses 155,812 139,683 39,649 6,524 341,668 1 Adjusted operating profit 46,744 35,590 2,871 955 86,160 1 Adjusted net interest 717 212 208 28 269 1 Adjusted profit before tax 47,461 35,378 2,663 927 86,429 Exceptional items: onerous contracts provision for future losses exceptional losses on redundancy and other restructuring costs 1,169 1,169 gain on reversal of fair value adjustments 3,045 3,045 Total exceptional items 3,045 1,169 1,876 Exceptional loss on disposal of a subsidiary 522 522 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 627 83 710 Statutory profit before tax 46,939 37,796 1,494 844 87,073 120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 1 The reconciliation for adjusted operating profit to statutory operating profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement is as follows: UK Germany France Belgium Total 000 000 000 000 000 1 Adjusted operating profit 46,744 35,590 2,871 955 86,160 Add-back interest on CSF 9 210 219 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 627 83 710 Exceptional items 3,045 1,169 1,876 Statutory operating profit 46,753 38,218 1,702 872 87,545 Other segment information Property, plant and equipment 39,636 14,825 6,830 1,729 63,020 Investment property 10,033 10,033 Intangible assets 54,817 19,416 39 2,013 76,285 Capital expenditure: Property, plant and equipment 12,076 5,026 501 38 17,641 Software 3,179 1,754 9 1 4,943 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 6,966 6,681 1,820 164 15,631 Depreciation of investment property 227 227 Amortisation of software 11,536 846 29 2 12,413 Share-based payments 2,702 607 36 3,345 Information about major customers Included in revenues arising from the UK Segment are revenues of approximately 288 million 2016: 271 million which arose from sales to the Groups largest customer.
For the purpose of this disclosure, a single customer is considered to be a group of entities known to be under common control.
This customer consists of entities under control of the UK Government.
121 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 5 Group operating profit This is stated after charging crediting : 2017 2016 000 000 Auditors remuneration: Audit of the Financial Statements 44 44 Audit of subsidiaries 559 493 Total audit fees 603 537 Audit-related assurance services 55 56 Taxation compliance services 19 29 Other assurance services 10 9 Taxation advisory services 13 144 Other non-audit services 200 Total non-audit services 297 238 Total fees 900 775 As explained in the Audit Committee Report on page 73, other non-audit services of 0.2 million during the year, relates to the financial due diligence conducted by KPMG LLP in connection with a potential acquisition.
2017 2016 000 000 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16,384 15,631 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 535 168 Depreciation of investment property 91 227 Gain on disposal of an investment property 4,320 Amortisation of software 12,020 12,413 Loss on disposal of software 688 25 Amortisation of other intangible assets 217 784 Net foreign currency differences 1,565 847 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 2,362,861 1,973,490 Operating lease payments 34,469 26,942 122 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 6 Exceptional items 2017 2016 000 000 Operating profit Redundancy and other restructuring costs 1,169 Onerous contracts 1,371 Gain on reversal of fair value adjustments 3,045 1,371 1,876 Gain on disposal of an investment property 4,320 Loss on disposal of a subsidiary 522 Exceptional items before taxation 5,691 1,354 Income tax Tax on onerous contracts included in operating profit 351 Tax on gain on reversal of fair value adjustments 192 Exceptional items after taxation 5,340 1,162 2017: Included within the current year are the following exceptional items: The remaining provisions for the last two onerous contracts in Germany were released, for an exceptional gain of 1.4 million.
These provisions were originally booked in 2013 and the contracts have now returned to profitability, so the provisions are no longer required.
As these provisions were booked as exceptional items, this release has also been classified as such: and The disposal of an investment property in Braintree, Essex, was completed on 26 May 2017 for 14.5 million.
This property was associated with a former subsidiary of the Group, R. D. Trading Limited, which was itself sold in February 2015.
Due to the size and non-operational nature of the transaction, the 4.3 million gain on disposal, net of 0.2 million disposal costs, has been classified as exceptional.
2016: Included within the prior year are the following exceptional items: As outlined in our 2016 Interim Report, a Line of Business restructure was agreed with the business in France.
This initiative to reduce the underutilised resources within our Professional Services arm completed in the second half of 2016, for a cost of 1.0 million.
This restructure has seen France exit the direct provision of Group Field Maintenance Services.
This Line of Business had materially decreased over time, leading to significant resourcing overcapacity.
Any residual customer requirement will be sub-contracted to an existing third party provider.
Additionally, as also detailed in the 2016 Interim Report, further provisioning to the existing 2014 Social Plan in France of 0.1 million was also required during the period: The most significant item within exceptional items during 2016 was the 3.0 million release of historical fair value adjustments made on the 2009 acquisition of becom Informationssysteme GmbH becom.
This followed the final payment of the contingent consideration to the vendor during 2016.
Due to the materiality and nature of the item, Management decided to classify this one-off gain as exceptional: and During the third quarter, a Group subsidiary domiciled in Luxembourg, Computacenter PSF SA, was disposed of for a net loss of 0.5 million.
As the principal item in the year to 31 December 2015 was the gain on the disposal of a Group subsidiary, R. D. Trading Limited RDC, of 42.2 million, the current year loss on disposal activity has also been classified as exceptional.
123 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 7 Staff costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors during the year was made up as follows: 2017 2016 No.
UK 6,533 6,260 Germany 5,754 5,360 France 1,557 1,559 Belgium 182 194 14,026 13,373 Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 2017 2016 000 000 Wages and salaries 652,988 559,990 Social security costs 102,121 82,758 Share-based payments 6,200 3,345 Pension costs 23,186 22,798 784,495 668,891 Share-based payments arise from transactions accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
8 Finance income 2017 2016 000 000 Bank interest receivable 854 895 Other interest received 667 734 1,521 1,629 9 Finance costs 2017 2016 000 000 Bank loans and overdrafts 355 373 Finance charges payable on CSF 159 219 Other interest 424 987 938 1,579 124 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 10 Income tax a Tax on profit from ordinary activities 2017 2016 000 000 Tax charged in the consolidated income statement Current income tax UK corporation tax 11,995 12,992 Foreign tax operating results before exceptional items 14,661 7,702 exceptional items 351 Total foreign tax 15,012 7,702 Adjustments in respect of prior years 170 Total current income tax 27,007 20,524 Deferred tax Operating results before exceptional items: origination and reversal of temporary differences 3,374 2,944 adjustments in respect of prior years 360 Exceptional items 192 Total deferred tax 3,374 2,776 Tax charge in the consolidated income statement 30,381 23,300 b Reconciliation of the total tax charge 2017 2016 000 000 Accounting profit before income tax 111,695 87,073 At the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 19.25 per cent 2016: 20 per cent 21,501 17,415 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 675 962 Non-deductible element of share-based payment charge 1,297 665 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 58 519 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 7,050 3,106 Other differences 683 71 Effect of changes in tax rate on deferred tax 170 Overseas tax not based on earnings 1,526 1,152 Tax effect of income not taxable in determining taxable profit 832 Deferred tax not recognised on current year losses 95 278 At effective income tax rate of 27.2 per cent 2016: 26.8 per cent 30,381 23,300 c Tax losses Deferred tax assets of 2.7 million 2016: 5.9 million have been recognised in respect of losses carried forward.
In addition, at 31 December 2017, there were unused tax losses across the Group of 152.0 million 2016: 150.8 million for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Of these losses, 40.9 million 2016: 40.4 million arise in Germany and 111.1 million 2016: 110.4 million arise in France.
A significant proportion of the losses arising in Germany have been generated in statutory entities that no longer have significant levels of trade.
The remaining unrecognised tax losses relate to other loss-making overseas subsidiaries.
125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 10 Income tax continued d Deferred tax Deferred income tax at 31 December relates to the following: Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Balance Sheet and other comprehensive income 2017 2016 2017 2016 000 000 000 000 Deferred income tax liabilities Accelerated capital allowances 1,197 Revaluations of foreign exchange contracts to fair value 1,293 559 194 189 Amortisation of intangibles 506 554 49 117 Gross deferred income tax liabilities 1,799 1,113 Deferred income tax assets Relief on share option gains 2,868 1,797 1,072 793 Other temporary differences 4,192 3,244 1,164 396 Revaluations of foreign exchange contracts to fair value 659 308 157 132 Losses available for offset against future taxable income 2,666 5,960 3,294 2,580 Gross deferred income tax assets 10,385 11,309 Deferred income tax charge 3,374 2,776 Net deferred income tax assets 8,586 10,196 Disclosed on the Consolidated Balance Sheet Deferred income tax assets 9,063 10,537 Deferred income tax liabilities 477 341 Net deferred income tax assets 8,586 10,196 At 31 December 2017, there was no recognised or unrecognised deferred income tax liability 2016: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the Groups subsidiaries as the Group expects that future remittances of earnings from its overseas subsidiaries will be covered by the UK dividend exemption.
e Impact of rate change The main rate of UK Corporation tax is 19 per cent from 1 April 2017 and will be reduced to 17 per cent from 1 April 2020, as enacted in the Finance Act 2015.
The deferred tax in these Consolidated Financial Statements reflects this.
126 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 11 Earnings per share Earnings per share EPS amounts are calculated by dividing profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year excluding own shares held.
To calculate diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential shares.
Share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year are considered to be dilutive potential shares.
2017 2016 000 000 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 81,314 63,773 2017 2016 000 000 Basic weighted average number of shares excluding own shares held 120,766 120,540 Effect of dilution: Share options 1,471 1,344 Diluted weighted average number of shares 122,237 121,884 2017 2016 pence pence Basic earnings per share 67.3 52.9 Diluted earnings per share 66.5 52.3 12 Dividends paid and proposed 2017 2016 000 000 Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Second interim dividend for 2016: nil pence 2015: 15.0 pence 18,106 Final dividend for 2016: 15.0 pence 2015: nil pence 18,151 Interim dividend for 2017: 7.4 pence 2016: 7.2 pence 8,961 8,696 27,112 26,802 Proposed not recognised as a liability as at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2017: 18.7 pence 2016: 15.0 pence 21,344 18,399 127 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 13 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Short fittings, Freehold land leasehold equipment and and buildings improvements vehicles Total 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2016 66,054 20,525 131,440 218,019 Relating to disposal of a subsidiary 5 160 165 Additions 351 4,592 12,698 17,641 Disposals 5 19,824 19,829 Foreign currency adjustment 394 2,616 11,404 14,414 At 31 December 2016 66,799 27,723 135,558 230,080 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries note 17 19 282 301 Additions 10,449 1,695 18,295 30,439 Disposals 532 22,829 23,361 Foreign currency adjustment 236 564 1,889 2,689 At 31 December 2017 77,484 29,469 133,195 240,148 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2016 38,335 13,156 109,396 160,887 Relating to disposal of a subsidiary 5 129 134 Provided during the year 537 2,826 12,268 15,631 Disposals 5 19,520 19,525 Foreign currency adjustment 47 2,205 7,949 10,201 At 31 December 2016 38,919 18,177 109,964 167,060 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries note 17 20 20 Provided during the year 1,507 1,980 12,897 16,384 Disposals 532 22,436 22,968 Foreign currency adjustment 16 538 1,194 1,748 At 31 December 2017 40,442 20,163 101,639 162,244 Net book value At 31 December 2017 37,042 9,306 31,556 77,904 At 31 December 2016 27,880 9,546 25,594 63,020 At 1 January 2016 27,719 7,369 22,044 57,132 Included in the figures above are the following amounts relating to leased assets which are used to satisfy specific customer contracts: Fixtures, fittings, equipment and vehicles 2017 2016 000 000 Cost At 1 January 30,234 37,893 Additions 3,127 1,529 Disposals 15,430 12,475 Foreign currency adjustment 186 3,287 At 31 December 18,117 30,234 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 26,608 34,076 Provided during the year 2,250 2,305 Disposals 15,430 12,475 Foreign currency adjustment 62 2,702 At 31 December 13,490 26,608 Net book value 4,627 3,626 128 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 14 Investment property 2017 2016 000 000 Cost At 1 January 11,167 11,167 Disposals 11,167 At 31 December 11,167 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 1,134 907 Provided during the year 91 227 Disposals 1,225 At 31 December 1,134 Net book value 10,033 On 26 May 2017, the Group disposed its only investment property for 14.5 million.
The property was in Braintree, Essex, and was owned by Digica Group Finance Limited a fully-owned subsidiary of the Group.
A gain of 4.3 million was recorded on disposal, net of 0.2 million of disposal costs.
15 Intangible assets Acquired intangible Goodwill Software assets Total 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2016 54,692 91,517 18,122 164,331 Relating to disposal of a subsidiary 123 123 Additions 4,943 4,943 Disposals 2,248 2,248 Foreign currency adjustment 4,030 1,360 1,981 7,371 At 31 December 2016 58,722 95,449 20,103 174,274 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries note 17 6,727 123 6,850 Additions 9,618 9,618 Disposals 3,243 3,243 Foreign currency adjustment 796 329 37 1,162 At 31 December 2017 66,245 102,276 20,140 188,661 Amortisation and Impairment At 1 January 2016 8,954 57,298 16,546 82,798 Relating to disposal of a subsidiary 111 111 Provided during the year 12,413 784 13,197 Disposals 2,223 2,223 Foreign currency adjustment 1,491 1,069 1,768 4,328 At 31 December 2016 10,445 68,446 19,098 97,989 Provided during the year 12,020 217 12,237 Disposals 2,551 2,551 Foreign currency adjustment 371 241 39 651 At 31 December 2017 10,816 78,156 19,354 108,326 Net book value At 31 December 2017 55,429 24,120 786 80,335 At 31 December 2016 48,277 27,003 1,005 76,285 At 1 January 2016 45,738 34,219 1,576 81,533 129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 16 Impairment testing of goodwill, other intangible assets and other non-current assets Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to the following CGUs: Computacenter UK Limited Computacenter Germany Computacenter France Computacenter AG NEWIS SA and Informatic Services IS SA together Belgium IS.
cITius AG TeamUltra Limited These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal Management purposes.
Movements in goodwill Computacenter TeamUltra Computacenter Computacenter Computacenter UK Limited Limited Germany France AG cITius AG Belgium IS Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 1 January 2016 30,429 13,233 910 1,166 45,738 Foreign currency adjustment 2,192 158 189 2,539 31 December 2016 30,429 15,425 1,068 1,355 48,277 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 4,620 2,107 6,727 Foreign currency adjustment 481 52 115 111 425 31 December 2017 30,429 4,620 15,906 1,016 1,992 1,466 55,429 Market growth rate 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% Discount rate 11.0% 11.0% 11.0% 12.0% 12.0% 12.0% 15.0% Key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined based on a value-in-use calculation.
To calculate this, cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by Senior Management covering a three-year period and on long-term market growth rates of between 1.5 and 2.5 per cent 2016: between 1.5 and 2.5 per cent thereafter.
Key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation for all CGUs for 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 are: budgeted revenue, which is based on long-run market growth forecasts: budgeted gross margins, which are based on average gross margins achieved in the year immediately before the budgeted year, adjusted for expected long-run market pricing trends: and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections ranges from 11.0 to 15.0 per cent 2016: 11.0 to 15.0 per cent which represents the Groups pre-tax discount rate adjusted for the risk profiles of the individual CGUs.
Each CGU generates value substantially in excess of the carrying value of goodwill attributed to each of them.
Management therefore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets consist of customer contracts, customer relationships and tools and technology.
The expected useful lives are shown in note 2.
Other non-current assets When there is an indication of impairment within a CGU, the carrying value of the non-current assets are compared to their recoverable amount which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs of disposal or the value-in-use of the CGU calculated as described above.
130 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 17 Investments a Investment in associate The following table illustrates summarised information of the investment in associates: 2017 2016 000 000 Cost At 1 January 604 589 Exchange rate movement 1 15 At 31 December 605 604 Impairment At 1 January and 31 December 549 549 Carrying value 56 55 Gonicus GmbH The Group has a 20 per cent 2016: 20 per cent interest in Gonicus GmbH, whose principal activity is the provision of Open Source Software.
Gonicus is a private entity, incorporated in Germany, that is not listed on any public exchange and therefore there is no published quotation price for the fair value of this investment.
The reporting date of Gonicus is 31 December.
ICS Solutions Limited The Group has a 25 per cent 2016: 25 per cent interest in ICS Solutions Limited ICS whose principal activity is the delivering of both on-premise and cloud based services and solutions across the Microsoft technology stack.
ICS is a private entity, incorporated in the United Kingdom, that is not listed on any public exchange and therefore there is no published quotation price for the fair value of this investment.
The reporting date of ICS is 30 June.
b Investment in subsidiaries The Groups subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Proportion of voting rights and shares held Name Country of incorporation Nature of business 2017 2016 i Computacenter UK Limited England IT infrastructure services 100% 100% iii Computacenter France SAS France IT infrastructure services 100% 100% iii Logival SARL France IT infrastructure services 100% 100% vi Computacenter Holding GmbH Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% v Computacenter Aktiengesellschaft Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% v Computacenter Management GmbH Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% v Computacenter Managed Services GmbH Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% ii Computacenter NV SA Belgium IT infrastructure services 100% 100% Computacenter NV Netherlands IT infrastructure services 100% 100% xiv 1 Computacenter U. S. Inc. USA IT infrastructure services 100% 100% i TeamUltra Limited England IT infrastructure services 100% xii 1 Computacenter Services Iberia SLU Spain International call centre services 100% 100% i 1 Digica Group Finance Limited England Investment property 100% 100% i Digica Group Holdings Limited England IT infrastructure and application services 100% 100% Computacenter Services and Solutions Pty xi 1 Limited South Africa IT infrastructure services 100% 100% xvii cITius AG Switzerland IT infrastructure services 100% xiii Computacenter AG Switzerland IT infrastructure services 100% 100% ii 3 Informatic Services IS SA Belgium IT infrastructure services 100% 100% viii 1 Computacenter Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia International call centre services 100% 100% vii 1 Computacenter Services Kft Hungary International call centre Services 100% 100% xv 1 Computacenter India Private Limited India International call centre services 100% 100% Computacenter Information Technology xvi 1 Shanghai Company Limited China International call centre services 100% 100% vi 2 Computacenter Germany AG & Co oHG Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% iv 2 Computacenter AG & Co oHG Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% 131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 17 Investments continued b Investment in subsidiaries continued Proportion of voting rights and shares held Name Country of incorporation Nature of business 2017 2016 vi 2 EZWO Computervertriebs Germany IT infrastructure services 99.09% 99.09% vi 2 Alfatron GmbH Elektronik Vertrieb Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% vi 2 CNARIO Informationsprodukte Vertriebs-GmbH Germany IT infrastructure services 100% 100% ix 1 Computacenter Mxico S. A. fide C. V. Mexico International call centre services 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Trustees Limited England Employee share scheme trustees 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Quest Trustees Limited England Employee share scheme trustees 100% 100% i 1 Allnet Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Amazon Computers Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Amazon Energy Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Amazon Systems Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 CAD Systems Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Compufix Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter FMS Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Management Services Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Mid-Market Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Consumables Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Distribution Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Leasing Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Maintenance Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Overseas Holdings Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Services Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Software Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Solutions Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computacenter Training Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computadata Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Computer Services Group Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Digica Group Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Digica Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Digica SMP Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Digica FMS Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 ICG Services Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 M Services Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Merchant Business Systems Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% i 1 Merchant Systems Limited England Dormant company 100% 100% 1.
Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter UK Limited.
viii L evel 9, Tower 1, Puchong Financial Corporate Centre, Jalan Puteri 1 2, Bandar Puteri, 2.
Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter Holding GmbH excludes 47100 Puchong, Selangor Darul Ehsan EZWO Computervertriebs which is 99.09 per cent.
ix A v. Paseo fide la Reforma, No.
412 floor 5, Col. Jurez, Delegacin Cuauhtmoc, Zip Code 3.
Includes indirect holdings of 100 per cent via Computacenter NV SA.
06600, Mxico City x Beech Avenue 54-80, 1119 PW, Schiphol-Rijk i Hatfield Avenue, Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL10 9TW xi Building 1, Parc du Cap, Mispel Road, Bellville, 7535, Cape Town xii Carrer fide Sancho fide Avila 52, 08018 Barcelona ii Ikaroslaan 31, B-1930 Zaventem iii Agence fide Roissy, 229 rue fide la Belle toile, ZI Paris Nord II, BP 52387, 95943 Roissy CDG xiii Riedstrasse 14, CH-8953 Dietikon xiv 50 Tice Blvd, Suite 340, Woodcliff Lake, NJ 07677 Cedex iv Europaring 34-40, 50170 Kerpen xv No.
3093, 6A Main, 13th Cross, HAL 2nd Stage, Indiranagar, Bangalore, 560008 xvi Unit 229, Block 2, Building 1, Huanhu West 2nd Road no.
888 Nanhui New Town, Putong v Kattenbug 2, 50667 Kln vi Werner-Eckert-Str.
16-18, 81829 Mnchen District, Shanghai xvii Giessereistrasse 4, CH-8620 Wetzikon vii Haller Gardens, Building D. 1st Floor, Soroksri t 30-34, Budapest 1095 Computacenter plc is the ultimate Parent entity of the Group.
132 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 cITius AG Citius On 1 January 2017, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the voting shares of cITius for an initial consideration of CHF 2.8 million and agreed to a maximum undiscounted contingent consideration of CHF 1.5 million, dependent upon the achievement of agreed performance criteria over the next two and a half years from the date of acquisition.
The acquisition-related costs amounted to CHF 41,500 and are included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Due to the size of the balance, the acquisition cost is not treated as an exceptional item.
cITius is based in Switzerland and is an IT service provider.
The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The book and fair values of the net assets at date of acquisition were as follows: Fair value Book value to Group 000 000 Intangible assets Comprising: Software 123 123 Total intangible assets 123 123 Property, plant and equipment 302 302 Inventories 17 17 Trade and other receivables 297 297 Cash and short-term deposits 422 422 Trade and other payables 183 183 Net assets acquired 978 978 Goodwill arising on acquisition 2,107 3,085 Discharged by: Cash paid on acquisition 2,212 Contingent consideration 873 3,085 Cash and cash equivalents acquired Cash and short-term deposits 422 Cash outflow on acquisition 2,663 The book and provisional fair values of the net assets acquired that were disclosed in note 9 to the 2017 Interim Report are unchanged and now final.
There were no differences between the fair values and the book values at acquisition.
Included in the 2.1 million of goodwill that arose on acquisition are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured under IFRS 3 Business Combination from the acquiree due to their nature.
These items include the expected value of synergies, the knowledge and the skillset of the workforce.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2017, cITius contributed 4.2 million to the Groups revenue and 0.3 million to the Groups profit after tax.
The previous shareholders of cITius included the current Managing Director of Computacenter Switzerland, who owned 30 per cent at the time of the acquisition, as a result 0.1 million was paid in cash and a further 0.9 million will be payable in three and a half years contingent on the achievement of profit-based targets.
The acquisition of cITius was made on terms equivalent to those that would have prevailed in an arms-length transaction.
Contingent consideration Based on the performance of the business in 2017 and the forecasted performance for the next two years, Managements assessment is that it is highly probable that the maximum contingent consideration will become payable and accordingly the discounted maximum contingent consideration has been included in the provisional fair value to the Group.
Management concluded that the contingent consideration was actually consideration and not remuneration on the basis that individuals who were selling shareholders due the consideration were not required to remain in employment post-acquisition.
133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 17 Investments continued TeamUltra Limited TeamUltra On 1 April 2017, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the voting shares of TeamUltra for an initial consideration of 2.6 million and agreed to a maximum undiscounted contingent consideration of 3.5 million, dependent upon the achievement of agreed performance criteria over the next three and a half years from the date of acquisition.
The acquisition-related costs amounted to 30,000 and are included in the Consolidated Income Statement.
TeamUltra is based in the United Kingdom and is an IT service provider.
The book and provisional fair values of the net assets at date of acquisition were as follows: Provisional fair value Book value to Group 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 23 23 Trade and other receivables 2,767 1,993 Cash and short-term deposits 370 370 Trade and other payables 2,982 1,923 Net assets acquired 178 463 Goodwill arising on acquisition 4,620 5,083 Discharged by: Cash paid on acquisition 2,575 Contingent consideration 2,508 5,083 Cash and cash equivalents acquired Cash and short-term deposits 370 Cash outflow on acquisition 4,713 Management has updated the provisional fair values of net assets at acquisition since these were first reported in note 9 to the 2017 Interim Report.
There are now some immaterial differences between the provisional fair values and the book values at acquisition due to alignment of TeamUltras accounting policies to that of Group.
The initial accounting for the acquisition of TeamUltra has only been provisionally determined at the end of the year.
At the date of finalisation of these Consolidated Financial Statements, the necessary market valuations and other calculations had not been finalised and they have therefore only been provisionally determined based on the Managements best estimates.
Included in the 4.6 million of goodwill that arose on acquisition are certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured under IFRS 3 Business Combination from the acquiree due to their nature.
These items include the expected value of synergies and an assembled workforce.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2017, TeamUltra contributed 4.9 million to the Groups revenue and 0.2 million to the Groups profit after tax.
Contingent consideration Based on the performance of the business in 2017 and the forecasted performance for the next two and three-quarter years, Managements assessment is that it is highly probable that the maximum contingent consideration will become payable and accordingly the discounted maximum contingent consideration has been included in the provisional fair value to the Group.
If the acquisition of TeamUltra had been completed on the first day of the financial year, the Groups revenue for the period would have been 3,795 million and the Groups profit after tax would have been 81 million.
134 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 18 Inventories 2017 2016 000 000 Inventories for re-sale 69,289 44,015 19 Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 000 000 Trade receivables 808,037 722,848 Other receivables 27,409 17,523 835,446 740,371 For terms and conditions relating to related party receivables, refer to note 33.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 90-day credit terms.
Note 26 sets out the Groups strategy towards credit risk.
The movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows: 2017 2016 000 000 At 1 January 12,315 13,130 Charge for the year 10,959 11,019 Utilised 6,891 5,139 Unused amounts reversed 3,639 5,052 Foreign currency adjustment 264 1,643 At 31 December 12,480 12,315 As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Neither past Past due but not impaired due nor Total impaired 30 days 3060 days 6090 days 90120 days 120 days 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 2017 808,037 695,018 67,876 29,062 4,213 4,051 7,817 2016 722,848 632,841 65,114 12,878 5,307 3,742 2,966 135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 20 Cash and short-term deposits 2017 2016 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 206,605 118,676 Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Due to strong cash generation over the past three years, the Group is now in a position where it can finance its requirements from its cash balance.
The Group does, however, retain overdraft facilities where required.
The uncommitted overdraft facilities available to the Group are 10.0 million at 31 December 2017 2016: 12.8 million.
During 2013 the Group entered into a specific committed facility of 40.0 million for a three-year term which was due to expire in May 2016.
In February 2015 this facility was extended at the same value through to February 2018.
At 31 December 2017 the facility was not utilised.
For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: 2017 2016 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 206,605 118,676 Bank overdrafts note 22 6 206,599 118,676 21 Trade and other payables 2017 2016 000 000 Trade payables 587,963 482,639 Other payables 204,017 196,899 791,980 679,538 For terms and conditions relating to related parties, refer to note 33.
Trade payables, except where we have taken short-term advantage of supplier extended-term interest-bearing credit facilities 2017: nil, 2016: 13.3 million, are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on net monthly terms.
Other payables, which principally relate to other taxes, social security costs and accruals, are non-interest bearing and have an average term of three months.
136 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 22 Financial liabilities 2017 2016 000 000 Current Bank loan 2,213 294 Bank overdrafts 6 Other loans CSF 413 Current obligations under finance leases CSF note 24 1,536 1,645 3,755 2,352 Non-current Bank loan 8,454 Non-current obligations under finance leases CSF note 24 3,209 1,832 11,663 1,832 There are no material differences between the fair value of financial liabilities and their book value.
Bank loans The Group has two principal bank loans: a loan of 8 million 2016: nil.
The loan was taken out on 21 December 2017.
Repayments will commence in FY2018 and will continue for five years.
The loan carries fixed interest rate at 1.65 per cent per annum.
The loan is taken out to finance the fit-out of the new German headquarters building and logistics facility in Kerpen: and a loan of 4 million 2016: nil.
The loan was taken out on 27 December 2017.
Repayments will commence in FY2018 and will continue for 10 years.
The loan carries fixed interest rate at 1.95 per cent per annum.
The loan is taken out to finance the acquisition of the new German headquarters building in Germany, which has been mortgaged to the lender.
Bank overdrafts The bank overdrafts are unsecured and are subject to annual review.
Finance leases The finance leases are only secured on the assets that they finance.
These assets are in the main used to satisfy specific customer contracts.
There are a small number of assets that are utilised internally.
Other loans The other loans are unsecured borrowings to finance equipment sold to customers on specific contracts or for equipment for own use.
The finance lease and loan facilities are committed.
Facilities At 31 December 2017, the Group had available 10.0 million of uncommitted overdraft facilities 2016: 12.8 million.
137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 23 Forward currency contracts 2017 2016 000 000 Financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss Foreign exchange forward contracts 503 1,561 Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange forward contracts 6,510 6,293 7,013 7,854 Cash flow hedges Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through other comprehensive income These amounts reflect the change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges which are used to hedge expected contract costs in South African rand and Hungarian forint where sales on those contracts are in pound sterling, based on highly probable forecast transactions.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss The Group also enters into other foreign exchange forward contracts with the intention to reduce the foreign exchange risk of expected sales and purchases.
When these other contracts are not designated in hedge relationships they are measured at fair value through profit and loss within administrative expenses.
The foreign exchange forward contract balances vary with the level of expected foreign currency costs and changes in the foreign exchange forward rates.
Effectiveness of hedging The terms of the foreign currency forward contracts have been negotiated for the expected highly probable forecast transactions to which hedge accounting has been applied.
No significant element of hedge ineffectiveness required recognition in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The cash flow hedges of the forecasted costs were assessed to be highly effective and a net unrealised gain of 6,510,000 2016: 6,293,000 with a deferred tax liability of 1,107,000 2016: 1,070,000 relating to the hedging instruments is included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The amounts retained in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income of 6,510,000 2016: 6,293,000 are expected to mature and affect the Consolidated Income Statement between 2017 and 2020.
138 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 24 Obligations under leases a Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for various items of plant and machinery: these leases have no terms of renewal or purchase options and escalation clauses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 2017 2016 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments 000 000 000 000 Within one year 1,712 1,536 1,771 1,645 After one year but not more than five years 3,399 3,209 1,971 1,832 5,111 4,745 3,742 3,477 Future finance charges 366 265 Present value of finance lease obligation 4,745 3,477 b Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, motor vehicles and items of small machinery.
There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
Future commitments payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 2017 2016 000 000 Within one year 50,300 33,651 After one year but not more than five years 89,233 58,866 More than five years 7,970 10,609 147,503 103,126 As part of the preparation to transition to IFRS 16, the Group performed a detailed exercise which identified additional lease commitments, which have been recognised in the table above.
c Operating lease receivables where the Group is lessor The Group entered into commercial leases with customers on certain items of machinery.
These leases have remaining terms of between one and five years.
Future amounts receivable by the Group under the non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: 2017 2016 000 000 Within one year 158 1,024 After one year but not more than five years 4,000 More than five years 3,090 158 8,114 139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 25 Provisions Customer contract Other Property Total provisions provisions provisions provisions 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 2017 1,015 5,722 2,070 8,807 Arising during the year 422 1,015 833 2,270 Utilised 581 581 Amounts unused reversed 1,458 1,458 Exchange adjustment 21 211 10 242 At 31 December 2017 6,367 2,913 9,280 Current 2017 463 1,218 1,681 Non-current 2017 5,904 1,695 7,599 6,367 2,913 9,280 Current 2016 876 1,008 1,191 3,075 Non-current 2016 139 4,714 879 5,732 1,015 5,722 2,070 8,807 Customer contract provisions Customer contract provisions are based on the Directors best estimate of the amount of future losses to completion on certain Managed Services contracts.
As one of the three contracts initially provided for ceased during the final quarter of 2015, only two remained provided for at 31 December 2016.
These remaining two contracts have now returned to profitability therefore the unutilised provisions was reversed during the year.
Property provisions Assumptions used to calculate the property provisions are based on 100 per cent of the market value of the rental charges plus any contractual dilapidation expenses on empty properties and the Directors best estimates of the likely time before the relevant leases can be reassigned or sublet, which ranges between one and 15 years.
The provisions in relation to the UK properties are discounted at a rate based upon the Bank of England base rate.
Those in respect of the European operations are discounted at a rate based on Euribor.
Other provisions The Group has a provision against the retirement benefit obligations in France under the Indemnits fide Fin fide Carrire IFC as described in note 2.13.3.
Economic outflows under the obligation only occur if eligible employees reach the statutory retirement age whilst still in employment.
The Group made 8,000 of payments during 2017 under this obligation 2016: 37,000.
In estimating the provision required, Management is required to make a number of assumptions.
The key areas of estimation uncertainty are the discount rate applied to future cash flows, the turnover rate of employed personnel and rate of salary increases over the length of their projected employment.
The level of unrealised actuarial gains or losses are sensitive to changes in the discount rate, which is affected by market conditions and therefore subject to variation.
Management makes use of an independent actuarial valuation in reaching its conclusions.
The net liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2017 in respect of the Groups French retirement benefit obligations under the IFC was 5.9 million 2016: 4.7 million.
Key movements during the year include a charge to the Consolidated Income Statement of 0.4 million for the service cost and an actuarial loss taken through reserves of 0.5 million.
The actuarial loss primarily relates to growth in remuneration during the year, higher than forecasted, of 1.5 per cent per annum in the actuarial valuation.
Also included within other provisions are the residual estimated costs associated with elements of the comprehensive transformation of the Groups French business that occurred in 2014 for 0.1 million and the Line of Business restructure that occurred during 2016 for 0.1 million.
The remaining nature of the costs previously provided for primarily include retraining and resettlement costs for redundant employees are expected to be utilised in 2018.
The 2014 transformation provision was based inter alia on assumptions concerning the duration of individual settlement payment programmes and the uptake of retraining and resettlement packages.
As disclosed last year, there remains some residual uncertainty relating to individual legal challenges to the implementation of the Social Plan.
These uncertainties arise both from technical arguments around whether the Social Plan process followed was procedurally correct and had pre-existing approval from the multiple, potentially interested, regulatory authorities and also from a challenge as to whether Computacenter France was damaging to the overall Group competitiveness and economic performance.
Having taken independent legal advice on this matter Management has applied judgements which it considers reasonable in establishing the required provision.
Management retains a provision, within the amount disclosed above, for legal expenses of 0.3 million directly related to these individual legal challenges to termination settlements provided under the Social Plan.
140 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 26 Financial instruments An explanation of the Groups financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are set out in the Group Finance Directors review on pages 52 to 53. Credit risk The Group principally manages credit risk through management of customer credit limits.
The credit limits are set for each customer based on the creditworthiness of the customer and the anticipated levels of business activity.
These limits are initially determined when the customer account is first set up and are regularly monitored thereafter.
The balance of trade receivables relates to customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivables from the date the credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The maximum exposure on trade receivables, as at the reporting date, is their carrying value.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, current asset investment and forward currency contracts, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group manages its counterparty credit risk by placing cash on deposit across a panel of reputable banking institutions, with no more than 50.0 million deposited at any one time except for UK Government-backed counterparties where the limit is 70.0 million.
Aside from the counterparty risk above, there are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings, cash and short-term deposits and finance leases and loans for certain customer contracts.
The Groups bank borrowings, existing committed and uncommitted facilities and deposits are at floating rates.
No interest rate derivative contracts have been entered into.
If long-term borrowings were to be utilised in the future, the Groups policy would be to maintain these borrowings at fixed rates to limit the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Interest rate sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings.
There is no impact on the Groups equity.
Effect on profit Change in before tax basis points 000 2017 Sterling 25 307 Euro 25 135 US dollars 25 36 2016 Sterling 25 117 Euro 25 247 US dollars 25 8 The impact of a reasonable possible decrease to the same range shown in the table would result in an opposite impact on the profit before tax of the same magnitude.
Fair values The carrying value of the Groups short-term receivables and payables is a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
The fair value of all other financial instruments carried within the Consolidated Financial Statements is not materially different from their carrying amount.
141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 26 Financial instruments continued Forward currency contracts At 31 December 2016 the Group held foreign exchange contracts as hedges of an inter-company loan and future expected payments to suppliers.
The exchange contracts are being used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange risk.
142 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Exchange rate sensitivity The majority of the transactions in each of the Groups geographical Segments are denominated in the functional currency of that Segment.
There are, however, a limited number of transactions where foreign currency exchange risk exists.
In these instances the Group enters into forward currency contracts, as shown in the above table, in order to mitigate such risk.
At the end of the year the fair value of the outstanding contracts was a net asset of 7,013,000 2016: 7,854,000.
Other than differences arising from the translation of results of operations outside of the Groups functional currency, reasonably foreseeable movements in the exchange rates of 10 per cent or -10 per cent would not have a material impact on the Groups profit before tax or equity.
Liquidity risk The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities as at 31 December based on contractual undiscounted payments: On demand 3 months 312 months 15 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Year ended 31 December 2017 Financial liabilities 6 982 2,945 11,852 15,785 Derivative financial instruments 1,196 1,196 Trade and other payables 791,980 791,980 6 792,962 4,141 11,852 808,961 On demand 3 months 312 months 15 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Year ended 31 December 2016 Financial liabilities 856 1,659 1,934 4,449 Derivative financial instruments 181 92 273 Trade and other payables 679,538 679,538 680,575 1,751 1,934 684,260 Fair value measurements recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet Financial instruments which are recognised at fair value subsequent to initial recognition are grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
The three levels are defined as follows: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Derivative financial instruments forward currency contracts At 31 December 2017 the Group had forward currency contracts, which were measured at Level 2 fair value subsequent to initial recognition, to the value of a net asset of 7,013,000 2016: 7,854,000.
The realised gains from forward currency contracts in the year to 31 December 2017 of 6,293,000 2016: 940,000 with a deferred tax liability of 1,070,000 2016: 190,000, are offset by broadly equivalent realised losses on the related underlying transactions.
143 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 27 Capital management Computacenters approach to capital management is to ensure that the Group has a strong capital base to support the development of the business and to maintain a strong credit rating, whilst aiming to maximise shareholder value.
Consistent with the Groups aim to maximise return to shareholders, the Companys Dividend Policy is to maintain a dividend cover of between 2 to 2.5 1 times.
In 2017 the cover was 2.5 times, on an adjusted profit basis 2016: 2.4 times.
The Groups capital base is primarily utilised to finance its fixed assets and working capital requirements.
The Group seeks to optimise the use of working capital and improve its cash flow.
As a consequence, the UK has sourced an increasing proportion of its product business via distributors in order to reduce the working capital requirements of the business.
Capital is allocated across the Group in order to minimise the Groups exposure to exchange rates.
Each country finances its own working capital requirements, typically resulting in borrowings in France with cash on deposit in the UK and Germany.
A notional cash pooling arrangement, which was introduced in 2013, expired in early 2017.
Subsequent to expiry, an internal cash pooling arrangement was implemented which utilises internal Group financing arrangements.
In certain circumstances, the Group enters into customer contracts that are financed by leases, which are secured only on the assets that they finance, 3 or loans.
Whilst the outstanding amounts of this CSF are included within net funds for statutory reporting purposes, the Group excludes this CSF when 3 managing the net funds of the business as this outstanding financing is matched by committed future revenues.
These financing facilities, which are committed, are thus outside of the normal working capital requirements of the Groups product resale and services activities.
In certain circumstances, the Group deposits its funds in short-term investments that do not fulfil the criteria to be classified as cash and cash 3 equivalents.
The Group considers these deposits when managing the net funds of the business, and accordingly includes these deposits within net 3 funds excluding CSF.
3 Capital, defined as net funds, that the Group monitors is disclosed in note 30.
Each operating country manages its working capital in line with Group policies.
The key components of working capital, i. e. trade receivables, inventory and trade payables, are managed in accordance with an agreed number of days targeted in the budget process, in order to ensure efficient capital usage.
An important element of the process of managing capital efficiently is to ensure that each operating country rewards behaviour at an account manager and account director level to minimise working capital, at a transactional level.
This is achieved by increasing commission payments for early payment by customers and reduced commission payments for late payment by customers, which encourages appropriate behaviour.
The Group regularly reviews the adequacy of its facilities against any foreseeable peak borrowing requirement.
See note 20 for details on uncommitted overdraft facilities available to the Group.
144 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 28 Issued capital and reserves Authorised share capital In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
The Companys Articles of Association has been amended to reflect this change.
Issued share capital ordinary shares 5 7 p ordinary 0.01p 9 shares Deferred shares Total Issued and fully paid No.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the general meetings of the Company.
On a winding up of the Company, holders of ordinary shares may be entitled to the residual assets of the Company.
The Company has a number of share option schemes under which options to subscribe for the Companys shares have been granted to certain executives and senior employees note 29.
Share premium The share premium account is used to record the aggregate amount or value of premiums paid when the Companys shares are issued redeemed at a premium.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve is used to maintain the Companys capital following the purchase and cancellation of its own shares.
During the year the Company repurchased nil of its own shares for cancellation 2016: nil.
Own shares held Own shares held comprise the following: i Computacenter Employee Share Ownership Plan 5 Shares in the Parent undertaking comprise 1,588,994 2016: 1,877,317 7 9 pence ordinary shares of Computacenter plc purchased by the Computacenter Employee Share Ownership Plan the Plan.
The principal purpose of the Plan is to be funded with shares that will satisfy discretionary executive share plans.
The number of shares held represents 1.3 per cent 2016: 1.5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
Since 31 December 2002, the definition of beneficiaries under the ESOP Trust has been expanded to include employees who have been awarded options 5 to acquire ordinary shares of 7 9 pence each in Computacenter plc under other employee share plans of the Group, namely the Computacenter Service Group plc Approved Executive Share Option Plan, the Computacenter plc Employee Share Option Scheme 1998, the Computacenter Service Group plc Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme, the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998, the Computacenter plc Sharesave Plus Scheme and any future similar share ownership schemes.
All costs incurred by the Plan are settled directly by Computacenter UK Limited and charged in the accounts as incurred.
5 The Plan Trustees have waived the dividends receivable in respect of 1,588,994 7 9 pence ordinary shares 2016: 1,877,317 that it owns which are all unallocated shares.
ii Computacenter Qualifying Employee Share Trust the Quest 5 The total shares held are 188,822 2016: 183,419 7 9 pence ordinary shares, which represents 0.15 per cent 2016: 0.15 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
All of these shares will continue to be held by the Quest until such time as the Sharesave options granted against them are exercised.
The Quest Trustees have waived dividends in respect of all of these 5 shares.
During the year the Quest subscribed for nil 7 9 pence ordinary shares 2016: nil.
Translation and hedging reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries.
The hedging reserve represents the cumulative amount of gains and losses on hedging instruments deemed effective in cash flow hedges.
145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 29 Share-based payments Executive share option scheme 5 During the year, nil options were exercised with respect to 7 9 pence ordinary shares 2016: 30,000 at a nominal value of nil 2016: 2,268 at an aggregate premium of nil 2016: 83,232.
Under the Computacenter Employee Share Option Scheme 1998 and the Computacenter Services Group Executive Share Scheme, options in respect of nil 2016: nil shares lapsed.
Computacenter Performance Share Plan PSP Under the Computacenter PSP, shares granted will be subject to certain performance conditions as described in the Annual Remuneration report.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as at 31 December 2017 is 1.2 years 2016: 1.1 years.
Computacenter Sharesave Scheme The Group operates a Sharesave Scheme which is available to all employees and full time Executive Directors of the Group and its subsidiaries who have worked for a qualifying period.
All options granted under this scheme are satisfied at exercise by way of a transfer of shares from the Computacenter Qualifying Employee Share Trust.
and WAEP of share options for the Sharesave Scheme: 2017 2017 2016 2016 No.
WAEP Sharesave Scheme Outstanding at the beginning of the year 4,099,366 4.28 3,957,127 5.03 Granted during the year 1,129,930 8.21 992,698 6.02 Forfeited during the year 213,777 5.89 268,047 5.41 Exercised during the year 708,054 4.58 582,412 3.85 Outstanding at the end of the year 4,307,465 6.26 4,099,366 5.41 Exercisable at the end of the year 167,149 5.44 151,328 4.28 Note The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 10.08 2016: 7.82.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the options outstanding as at 31 December 2017 is 3.2 years 2016: 3.2 years.
The fair value of the Performance Share Plan PSP and Sharesave Scheme plans are estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
The following tables give the assumptions made during the year ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016: 2017 PSP PSP PSP PSP SAYE SAYE Nature of the arrangement scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme Date of grant 04 07 2017 18 09 2017 22 03 2017 22 03 2017 01 12 2017 01 12 2017 Number of instruments granted 62,150 10,648 335,235 375,717 362,917 767,013 Exercise price nil nil nil nil 8.88 7.89 Share price at date of grant 8.04 9.86 7.37 7.37 10.78 10.78 Contractual life years 3 3 3 3 3 5 See the Annual See the Annual Remuneration Remuneration Report on Report on Three-year Five-year page 75 in 2016 page 75 in 2016 service period service period Annual Report See note 1 Annual Report See note 1 and savings and savings Vesting conditions and Accounts below and Accounts below requirement requirement Expected volatility n a n a n a n a 25.3% 28.4% Expected option life at grant date years 3 3 3 3 3 5 Risk-free interest rate n a n a n a n a 0.74% 0.74% Dividend yield 3.0% 2.4% 3.2% 3.2% 2.5% 2.5% Fair value per granted instrument determined at grant date 7.37 9.18 6.69 6.69 2.36 3.21 147 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 29 Share-based payments continued 2016 PSP PSP SAYE SAYE Nature of the arrangement scheme scheme scheme scheme Date of grant 22 03 2016 22 03 2016 19 10 2016 19 10 2016 Number of instruments granted 293,574 298,504 341,164 651,534 Exercise price nil nil 6.49 5.77 Share price at date of grant 8.47 8.47 7.21 7.21 Contractual life years 3 3 3 5 See the Annual Remuneration Report on Three-year Five-year page 71 in 2015 service period service period Annual Report See note 1 and savings and savings Vesting conditions and Accounts below requirement requirement Expected volatility n a n a 26.0% 30.9% Expected option life at grant date years 3 3 3 5 Risk-free interest rate n a n a 0.59% 0.59% Dividend yield 2.8% 2.8% 3.72% 3.72% Fair value per granted instrument determined at grant date 7.79 7.79 1.19 1.51 Note 1.
Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Share Plan 2006, as amended at the AGM held on 13 May 2011.
One-quarter of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 5 per cent per annum.
One-half of the shares will vest if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 7.5 per cent and will vest in full if the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period equals 10 per cent.
If the compound annual EPS growth over the performance period is between 5 and 10 per cent, shares awarded will vest on a straight-line basis.
The performance period usually covers a period of three years from 1 January of the year the award is granted.
The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the recent historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
No other features of the options granted were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
148 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 30 Analysis of changes in net funds At At 1 January Cash flows Non-cash Exchange 31 December 2017 in year flow differences 2017 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and short-term deposits 118,676 84,708 3,221 206,605 Bank overdraft 6 6 Cash and cash equivalents 118,676 84,702 3,221 206,599 Current asset investments 30,000 30,000 Bank loans 294 10,297 76 10,667 Net funds excluding CSF 148,382 44,405 3,145 195,932 CSF leases 3,477 1,486 366 148 4,745 Customer-specific other loans 413 338 75 Total CSF 3,890 1,148 366 73 4,745 Net funds 144,492 43,257 366 3,072 191,187 At At Cash flows Non-cash Exchange 31 December 1 January 2016 in year flow differences 2016 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and short-term deposits 111,770 5,840 12,746 118,676 Bank overdraft 90 90 Cash and cash equivalents 111,680 5,750 12,746 118,676 Current asset investments 15,000 15,000 30,000 Bank loans 5 278 11 294 Net funds excluding CSF 126,675 8,972 12,735 148,382 CSF leases 4,373 1,167 377 648 3,477 Customer-specific other loans 1,514 1,101 413 Total CSF 5,887 2,268 377 648 3,890 Net funds 120,788 11,240 377 12,087 144,492 149 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 31 Capital commitments At 31 December 2017, the Group held significant commitments for capital expenditure of 25.3 million in relation to the fit-out of the new German headquarters and logistics facility in Kerpen 2016: nil.
32 Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The Group has a defined contribution pension plan, covering substantially all of its employees in the UK.
The amount recognised as an expense for this plan is detailed in note 7.
Details of the Retirement Benefit obligation for Computacenter France are given in note 25.
33 Related party transactions During the year the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties.
Transactions entered into are as described below: Biomni provides the Computacenter e-procurement system used by many of Computacenters major customers.
An annual fee has been agreed on a commercial basis for use of the software for each installation.
Both PJ Ogden and PW Hulme are Directors of and have a material interest in Biomni Limited.
Triage Services Limited mainly provides IT hardware repair services to many of Computacenters customers.
MJ Norris is a Director of and has a material interest in Triage Services Limited.
The table below provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year: Sales Purchases Amounts owed to related from related to related parties parties parties 000 000 000 Biomni Limited 2 867 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales to and purchases from related parties are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arms-length transactions.
Outstanding balances at the year end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables.
The Group has not recognised any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties.
This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Compensation of key management personnel including Directors The Board of Directors is identified as the Groups key management personnel.
Please refer to the information given in the remuneration table in the Annual Remuneration report on page 81 for details of compensation given to the Groups key management personnel.
A summary of the compensation of key management personnel is provided below: 2017 2016 000 000 Short-term employee benefits 1,842 1,407 Social security costs 383 604 Share-based payment transactions 1,563 1,565 Pension costs 51 19 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 3,839 3,595 The interest of the key management personnel in the Groups share incentive schemes are disclosed in the Annual Remuneration report on pages 85 and 86.
150 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 34 Contingent liabilities The Company has given a guarantee in the normal course of business to suppliers of subsidiaries undertaking for an amount not exceeding 117.6 million 2016: 102.6 million.
35 Events after the balance sheet date Return of Value On 25 August 2017, Computacenter announced its interim results for the six-month period ended 30 June 2017, and that it intended to make a one-off Return of Value to shareholders of approximately 100 million the Return of Value.
The Company subsequently announced on 14 November 2017 that the Return of Value would be undertaken by way of a Tender Offer for ordinary shares to be launched after the release of its full-year trading update in January 2018, which was released on 22 January 2018.
On 23 January 2018, the Company published further details of the timing and structure of the Return of Value by way of a shareholder circular the Circular.
On 13 February 2018, the Company announced the results of the Tender Offer set out in the Circular which closed on 9 February 2018.
A total of 44,089,779 ordinary shares were validly tendered and, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Tender Offer as set out in the Circular, the Strike Price was determined to be 1170 pence.
Accordingly, 8,546,861 ordinary shares were purchased at a price per ordinary share of 1170 pence, for a total cost of 99,998,273.70.
This represented approximately 6.97 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2017.
As set out in the Circular, the 8,546,861 ordinary shares were purchased by Credit Suisse pursuant to the Tender Offer and the Company purchased such ordinary shares from Credit Suisse at the Strike Price on 14 February 2018.
The Company holds the ordinary shares purchased pursuant to the Tender 5 Offer in treasury.
Immediately following the purchase, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 122,687,970 ordinary shares of 7 9 pence each, each carrying one voting right, of which the Company held 8,546,861 ordinary shares in treasury.
As at 14 February 2018, the total number of voting rights in the Company which may be used by shareholders as the denominator for the calculations by which they can determine if they are required to notify their interest in, or a change to their interest in the Company, under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, is 114,141,109.
The percentage of voting rights attributable to those shares it holds in treasury following the share buy-back is 6.97 per cent.
For further information refer to page 53 of the Strategic Report.
Committed overdraft facility As disclosed in note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the committed overdraft facility available to Group was 40.0 million, which remained unutilised as at 31 December 2017.
This facility was renewed in February 2018 for a further three years and extended to a value of 60 million.
