2 All figures include 100% of production from the Penmont mines Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos and Noche Buena.
Mineral resources are not ore reserves and do not have demonstrated economic viability.
All figures rounded to reflect the relative accuracy of the estimates.
Gold, silver, lead and zinc assays were capped where appropriate.
2 Mineral resources are reported at metal equivalent cut-off grades based on metal price assumptions, variable metallurgical recovery assumptions variable metallurgical recoveries as a function of grade and relative metal distribution, mining costs, processing costs, general and administrative G&A costs, and variable NSR factors NSR factors include smelting and transportation costs.
The AgEq is calculated by dividing the cost by the Ag net value factor which includes prices, recoveries, and payabilities.
3 The cut-off grade for Cinegas mineral resources varies between 117 and 162 gpt AgEq.
4 The Mega Centauro, Soledad Dipolos, and Noche Buena resources are reported within pit shells run at a US$1,250 oz Au price.
5 The Mega Centauro, Soledad Dipolos, Noche Buena open pit mines has produced silver at an average concentration of 0.3 gpt to 1.1 gpt.
Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model.
Based on past production, factored in situ silver in the open pit M & I & I resources is approximately in the range of 14 to 15 moz.
6 Mega Centauro mineral reserves are reported at varied cut-offs dependent on material types and grade.
Oxide material above 0.25 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, transitional and sulfide material above 0.30 gpt Au reports to the heap leach, oxide material above 0.93 gpt Au reports to the mill, transitional and sulfide material above 0.48 gpt Au reports to the mill.
7 The Soledad Dipolos mine has been subject to legal action regarding surface access.
SRK has been provided with reassurances that Fresnillo has a reasonable chance to reacquire surface rights to these areas.
Metal price assumptions considered for the calculation of metal equivalent grades are: Gold US$ oz 1,250.00, Silver US$ oz 17.00, Lead US$ lb 1.00 and Zinc US$ lb 1.20.
The resources were estimated by Fresnillo.
Dr Bart Stryhas, CPG #11034, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Minera Penmont.
Matthew Hastings, M. Sc, P. Geo, MAusIMM #314693 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Cinega.
Benjamin Parsons, BSc, MSc Geology, MAusIMM CP #222568 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for Fresnillo and Saucito.
Erik Ronald, MEng, PG, MAusIMM #306480 of SRK, a Qualified Person, reviewed and audited the resource calculations for San Julin.
