192 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 5 of the Parent Company accounts the Group.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
The registered address of Peoles is Calzada Legaria 549, Mexico City 11250.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
Further information on related party balances and transactions with Peoles group companies is disclosed in note 27.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 26 February 2018.
The Groups principal business is the mining and beneficiation of non-ferrous minerals, and the sale of related production.
The primary contents of this production are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
Further information about the Group operating mines and its principal activities is disclosed in note 3.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES A BASIS OF PREPARATION AND CONSOLIDATION, AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE BASIS OF PREPARATION AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial assets and defined benefit pension scheme assets which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as of 31 December 2017 and 2016, and the results of operations and cash flows for the years then ended.
Entities that constitute the Group are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the number of shares owned by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Entities are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3.
All intra-Group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an  basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Any losses of a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.
Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, a transaction with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interest are also recorded in equity.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 193 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 B CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
During 2017, there were no amendments to existing accounting policies.
NEW STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS AND AMENDMENTS NEW STANDARDS ADOPTED BY THE GROUP The Group has adopted from 1 January 2017 Amendments to IAS 7.
The amendments require an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities.
The Group also has adopted Amendments to IAS 12.
The amendments clarify the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair value and that fair value is below the assets tax base.
They also clarify certain other aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets.
These amendments had no impact in the financial information of the Group.
Other than the above mentioned amendments there were no significant new standards that the Group was required to adopt effective from 1 January 2017.
STANDARDS, INTERPRETATIONS AND AMENDMENTS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, as applicable to the Groups financial statements, when they become effective, except where indicated.
IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS IFRS 9 Financial Instruments addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
The Group has decided not to adopt IFRS 9 until it becomes mandatory on 1 January 2018.
The Group does not expect the new guidance to have a significant impact on the classification and measurement of its financial assets for the following reasons: CLASSIFICATION AND MEASUREMENT The equity instruments that are currently classified as available-for-sale financial assets satisfy the conditions for classification as at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI.
Under IFRS 9, gains and losses accumulated in OCI are not recycled to the income statement.
There are no other significant changes to the accounting for these assets.
Also, embedded derivatives resulting for the sales of goods as described in note 2 p will be no longer separated from the host contract.
Instead, the entire receivable will be measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Management does not expect this to result in a significant impact on the measurement of the receivable.
There will be no impact on the Groups accounting for financial liabilities, as the new requirements only affect the accounting for financial liabilities that are designated at fair value through profit or loss and the Group does not have any such liabilities.
DERECOGNITION The derecognition rules have been transferred from IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and have not been changed.
HEDGE ACCOUNTING The new hedge accounting rules will align the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with the Groups risk management practices.
At this stage the Group does not expect to designate any new hedge relationships except for the derivatives corresponding to purchase of property, plant and equipment.
The Groups existing hedge relationships qualify as continuing hedges upon the adoption of IFRS 9.
As a consequence, the Group does not expect an impact on the accounting for its hedging relationships.
IFRS 9 changes the accounting requirements for the time value of purchased options where only the intrinsic value of such options has been designated as the hedging instrument.
In such cases, changes in the time value of options are initially recognised in OCI.
Where the hedged item is transaction related, amounts initially recognised in OCI related to the change in the time value of options are reclassified to profit or loss or as a basis adjustment to non-financial assets or liabilities upon maturity of the hedged item, or, in the case of a hedged item that realises over time, the amounts initially recognised in OCI are amortised to profit or loss on a systematic and rational basis over the life of the hedged item.
Under IAS 39, the change in time value of options is recorded in the income statement.
The initial credit adjustment from retained earnings to hedging reserve as at 1 January 2017 would be US$23.0 million and the adjustment decreasing financial cost for the year ended 31 December 2017 US$42.1 million.
194 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED B CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES CONTINUED IMPAIRMENT IFRS 9 requires the Group to now use an expected credit loss model for its trade receivables measured at amortised cost, either on a 12-month or lifetime basis.
Given the short-term nature of these receivables, the Group does not expect these changes will have a significant impact.
PRESENTATION AND DISCLOSURE The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in presentation.
These are expected to change the nature and extent of the Groups disclosures about its financial instruments particularly in the year of the adoption of the new standard.
IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS The IASB has issued a new standard for the recognition of revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
The new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer.
The Group has evaluated recognition and measurement of revenue based on the five-step model in IFRS 15 and has not identified any financial impacts, hence no adjustments are expected to result from the adoption of IFRS 15.
The Group has elected to adopt the new standard from 1 January 2018 applying the modified retrospective adoption method.
Certain disclosures will change as a result of the requirements of IFRS 15.
The Group expects this to include a breakdown of revenue from customers and revenue from other sources, including the movement in the value of embedded derivatives in sales contracts.
IFRS 16 LEASES IFRS 16 introduces a single lessee accounting model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value.
A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
IFRS 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in IAS 17.
Accordingly, a lessor continues to classify its leases as operating leases or finance leases, and to account for those two types of leases differently.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier application is permitted.
However, as there are several interactions between IFRS 16 and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, early application is restricted to entities that also early adopt IFRS 15.
The Group has decided to adopt the standard when it becomes effective.
IFRIC 22 FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS AND ADVANCE CONSIDERATION IFRIC 22 clarifies which exchange rate to use in reporting foreign currency transactions when payment is made or received in advance.
The interpretation requires the company to determine a date of transaction for the purposes of selecting an exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income.
In the case that there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the entity should determine a date of the transaction for each flow of advance consideration.
IFRIC 22 is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and earlier adoption is permitted.
The interpretation is not expected to have any impact in the financial information of the Group.
IFRIC 23 UNCERTAINTY OVER INCOME TAX TREATMENTS This Interpretation clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12 when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
The interpretation is to be applied to the determination of taxable profit tax loss, tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
Application of tax law can be complex and requires judgement to assess risk and estimate outcomes where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain.
The Group is working to identify potential uncertainties based on previous resolutions of tax authorities.
IFRIC 23 is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and earlier adoption is permitted.
The Group has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 195 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 C SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
JUDGEMENTS Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are: Determination of functional currency note 2 d : The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be more than one currency in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Evaluation of the status of projects note 2 e : The evaluation of project status impacts the accounting for costs incurred and requires management judgement.
This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs, the timing of the end of the exploration phase and the start of the development phase and the commencement of the production phase.
These judgements directly impact the treatment of costs incurred and proceeds from the sale of metals from ore produced.
Stripping costs note 2 e : The Group incurs waste removal costs stripping costs during the development and production phases of its surface mining operations.
During the production phase, stripping costs production stripping costs can be incurred both in relation to the production of inventory in that period and the creation of improved access and mining flexibility in relation to ore to be mined in the future.
The former are included as part of the costs of inventory, while the latter are capitalised as a stripping activity asset, where certain criteria are met.
Once the Group has identified production stripping for a surface mining operation, judgement is required in identifying the separate components of the ore bodies for that operation, to which stripping costs should be allocated.
Generally a component is a specific volume of the ore body that is made more accessible by the stripping activity.
In identifying components of the ore body, the Group works closely with the mining operations personnel to analyse each of the mine plans.
The mine plans and, therefore, the identification of components, will vary between mines for a number of reasons.
These include, but are not limited to, the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and or financial considerations.
The Group reassesses the components of ore bodies annually in line with the preparation of mine plans.
In the current year, this reassessment did not give rise to any changes in the identification of components.
Once production stripping costs have been identified, judgement is also required to identify a suitable production measure to be used to allocate production stripping costs between inventory and any stripping activity asset s for each component.
The Group considers that the ratio of the expected tonnes of waste to be stripped for an expected tonnes of ore to be mined for a specific component of the ore body is the most suitable production measure.
Furthermore, judgements and estimates are also used to apply the units of production method in determining the depreciable lives of the stripping activity asset s. Qualifying assets note 2 e : All interest-bearing loans are held by the parent company and were not obtained for any specific assets acquisition, construction, or production.
Funds from these loans are transferred to subsidiaries to meet the strategic objectives of the Group or are otherwise held centrally.
Due to this financing structure, judgement is required in determining whether those borrowings are attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
Therefore, management determines whether borrowings are attributable to an asset or group of assets based on whether the investment in an operating or development stage project is classified as contributing to achieving the strategic growth of the Group.
By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
196 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED C SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS CONTINUED ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Significant areas of estimation uncertainty considered by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources, note 2 e : Ore reserves are estimates of the amount of ore that can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups mining properties: mineral resources are an identified mineral occurrence with reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by appropriately qualified persons relating to the geological and technical data on the size, depth, shape and grade of the ore body and suitable production techniques and recovery rates, in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code 2012.
Such an analysis requires complex geological judgements to interpret the data.
The estimation of recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources is based upon factors such as geological assumptions and judgements made in estimating the size and grade of the ore body, estimates of commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, future capital requirements and production costs.
As additional geological information is produced during the operation of a mine, the economic assumptions used and the estimates of ore reserves and mineral resources may change.
Such changes may impact the Groups reported balance sheet and income statement including: The carrying value of property, plant and equipment and mining properties may be affected due to changes in estimated future cash flows, which consider both ore reserves and mineral resources: Depreciation and amortisation charges in the income statement may change where such charges are determined using the unit-of-production method based on ore reserves: Stripping costs capitalised in the balance sheet, either as part of mine properties or inventory, or charged to profit or loss may change due to changes in stripping ratios: Provisions for mine closure costs may change where changes to the ore reserve and resources estimates affect expectations about when such activities will occur: and The recognition and carrying value of deferred income tax assets may change due to changes regarding the existence of such assets and in estimates of the likely recovery of such assets.
Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes, notes 2 e and 12: Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets.
For depreciation calculated under the unit-of-production method, estimated recoverable reserves are used in determining the depreciation and or amortisation of mine-specific assets.
The depreciation amortisation charge is proportional to the depletion of the estimated remaining life of mine of production.
Estimated useful lives of other assets are based on the expected usage of the asset.
Each items life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to expectations of the use of the asset by the Group, including with reference to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the asset is used.
Silverstream, note 14: The valuation of the Silverstream contract as a derivative financial instrument requires estimation by management.
The term of the derivative is based on Sabinas life of mine and the value of this derivative is determined using a number of estimates, including the estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources and future production profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated recoveries of silver from ore mined, estimates of the future price of silver and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
For further details on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 30.
The impact of changes in silver price assumptions, foreign exchange, inflation and the discount rate is included in note 31.
Assessment of recoverability of property plant and equipment and impairment charges, note 2 f : The recoverability of an asset requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, reserves and resources and the associated production profiles, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment.
Estimation of the mine closure costs, notes 2 l and 21: Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, the currency in which the cost will be incurred, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at the balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 197 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Income tax, notes 2 r and 10: The recognition of deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
D FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the parent companys functional currency.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all operating entities, this is US dollars.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined.
For entities with functional currencies other than US dollars as at the reporting date, assets and liabilities are translated into the reporting currency of the Group by applying the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
The resulting difference on exchange is included as a cumulative translation adjustment in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of an entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that operation is recognised in the income statement.
E PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any.
Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into working condition for its intended use.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost less the residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of sales on a unit-of-production UOP basis for mine buildings and installations, plant and equipment used in the mine production process or on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset when not related to the mine production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect unit-of-production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
The expected useful lives are as follows: Years Buildings 6 Plant and equipment 4 1 Mining properties and development costs 16 Other assets 3 1 Depreciation of mining properties and development cost are determined using the unit-of-production method.
An item of property, plant and equipment is fide-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising at fide-recognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is fide-recognised.
Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use.
Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
198 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED D FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION CONTINUED DISPOSAL OF ASSETS Gains or losses from the disposal of assets are recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
MINING PROPERTIES AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Payments for mining concessions are expensed during the exploration phase of a prospect and capitalised during the development of the project when incurred.
Purchased rights to ore reserves and mineral resources are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
Mining concessions, when capitalised, are amortised on a straight line basis over the period of time in which benefits are expected to be obtained from that specific concession.
Mine development costs are capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment.
Mine development activities commence once a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project.
When an exploration prospect has entered into the advanced exploration phase and sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals has been obtained pre-operative expenses relating to mine preparation works are also capitalised as a mine development cost.
The initial cost of a mining property comprises its construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the mining property into operation, the initial estimate of the provision for mine closure cost, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs.
The Group cease the capitalisation of borrowing cost when the physical construction of the asset is complete and is ready for its intended use.
Revenues from metals recovered from ore mined in the mine development phase, prior to commercial production, are credited to mining properties and development costs.
Upon commencement of production, capitalised expenditure is depreciated using the unit-of-production method based on the estimated economically proven and probable reserves to which they relate.
Mining properties and mine development are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value, if any.
CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of construction in progress is not depreciated.
SUBSEQUENT EXPENDITURES All subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised if it meets the recognition criteria, and the carrying amount of those parts that are replaced, is fide-recognised.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
STRIPPING COSTS In a surface mine operation, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste material in order to gain access to the ore bodies stripping activity.
During development and pre-production phases, the stripping activity costs are capitalised as part of the initial cost of development and construction of the mine the stripping activity asset and charged as depreciation or depletion to cost of sales, in the income statement, based on the mines units of production once commercial operations begin.
Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a surface mine.
At the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the surface mine the activity is referred to as production stripping.
Production stripping cost is capitalised only if the following criteria is met: It is probable that the future economic benefits improved access to an ore body associated with the stripping activity will flow to the Group: The Group can identify the component of an ore body for which access has been improved: and The costs relating to the improved access to that component can be measured reliably.
If not all of the criteria are met, the production stripping costs are charged to the income statement as operating costs as they are incurred.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 199 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Stripping activity costs associated with such development activities are capitalised into existing mining development assets, as mining properties and development cost, within property, plant and equipment, using a measure that considers the volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume, for a given volume of ore production.
This measure is known as component stripping ratio, which is revised annually in accordance with the mine plan.
The amount capitalised is subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body related to the stripping activity asset, by using the units of production method.
The identification of components and the expected useful lives of those components are evaluated annually.
Depreciation is recognised as cost of sales in the income statement.
The capitalised stripping activity asset is carried at cost less accumulated depletion depreciation, less impairment, if any.
Cost includes the accumulation of costs directly incurred to perform the stripping activity that improves access to the identified component of ore, plus an allocation of directly attributable overhead costs.
The costs associated with incidental operations are excluded from the cost of the stripping activity asset.
In identifying components of the ore body, the Group works closely with the mining operations personnel for each mining operation to analyse each of the mine plans.
Generally, a component will be a subset of the total ore body and a mine may have several components that are identified based on the mine plan.
The mine plans and therefore the identification of components can vary between mines for a number of reasons including but not limited to, the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and or financial considerations.
F IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS The carrying amounts of non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the recoverable amount in the balance sheet.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
THE RECOVERABLE AMOUNT OF AN ASSET The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Fair value less cost of disposal is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in an orderly sale transaction between market participants.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independently of those from other assets, or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
REVERSAL OF IMPAIRMENT An assessment is made each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years.
Such impairment loss reversal is recognised in the income statement.
G FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: held to maturity investments: available-for-sale financial assets: or loans and receivables or derivatives designated as hedging instruments, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred.
200 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED G FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Financial assets and liabilities classified as held-for-trading and other assets or liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss at inception are included in this category.
Financial assets or liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the short term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined by IAS 39.
Financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses arising from changes in fair value, presented as finance costs or finance income in the income statement.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or availablefor-sale.
After initial measurement, such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Gains or losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
Loans and receivables from contractors are carried at amortised cost.
LOANS AND BORROWINGS After initial recognition at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs, interest-bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the income statement.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss, in the income statement, when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
The Group adjusts the carrying amount of the financial liability to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows.
The carrying amount is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial instruments original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate.
Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as income or expense.
This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
For more information, refer to note 20.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held to maturity investments.
Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market: therefore, a fair value can be reliably measured.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is fide-recognised.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are fide-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense.
fide-RECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES A financial asset or liability is generally fide-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 201 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 H IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
ASSETS CARRIED AT AMORTISED COST If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are fide recognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Group considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged, by considering the size of the decline in this value, the historic volatility in changes in fair value and the duration of the sustained decline.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
I INVENTORIES Finished goods, work in progress and ore stockpile inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method based on cost of production which excludes borrowing costs.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: personnel expenses, which include employee profit sharing, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: the depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Operating materials and spare parts are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
An allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories is determined by reference to specific items of stock.
A regular review is undertaken by management to determine the extent of such an allowance.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
J SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS Where the Group invests in short-term instruments which are either not readily convertible into known amounts of cash or are subject to risk of changes in value that are not insignificant, these instruments are classified as short-term investments.
Short-term investments are classified as loans and receivables.
202 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED K CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
L PROVISIONS MINE CLOSURE COST A provision for mine closure cost is made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure, restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas based on a mine closure plan, in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future economic benefit and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis by the Group for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, the portion of the increase is charged directly as an expense.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
M EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Group operates the following plans: DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLAN This funded plan is based on each employees earnings and years of service.
This plan was open to all employees in Mexico until it was closed to new entrants on 1 July 2007.
The plan is denominated in Mexican Pesos.
For members as at 30 June 2007, benefits were frozen at that date subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index NCPI.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an external actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date.
The discount rate is the yield on bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss.
Past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits have already vested following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The value of any asset is restricted to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan.
Net interest cost is recognised in finance cost and return on plan assets other than amounts reflected in net interest cost is recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss.
DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLAN A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are due.
The contributions are based on the employees salary.
This plan started on 1 July 2007 and it is voluntary for all employees to join this scheme.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 203 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIORITY PREMIUM FOR VOLUNTARY SEPARATION This unfunded plan corresponds to an additional payment over the legal seniority premium equivalent to approximately 12 days of salary per year for those unionised workers who have more than 15 years of service.
Non-unionised employees with more than 15 years of service have the right to a payment equivalent to 12 days for each year of service.
For both cases, the payment is based on the legal current minimum salary.
The cost of providing benefits for the seniority premium for voluntary separation is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an external actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised as income or expense in the period in which they occur.
OTHER Benefits for death and disability are covered through insurance policies.
Termination payments for involuntary retirement dismissals are charged to the income statement, when incurred.
N EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING In accordance with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay for employee profit sharing PTU equivalent to 10% of the taxable income of each fiscal year.
PTU is accounted for as employee benefits and is calculated based on the services rendered by employees during the year, considering their most recent salaries.
The liability is recognised as it accrues and is charged to the income statement.
PTU, paid in each fiscal year, is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
O LEASES The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a There is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement: b A renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term: c There is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset: or d There is a substantial change to the asset.
GROUP AS A LESSEE Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
GROUP AS A LESSOR Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b above.
For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2007, in accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4.
204 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED P REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates and other sales taxes.
SALE OF GOODS Revenue is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
The Group recognises revenue on a provisional basis at the time concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are delivered to the customers smelter or refinery, using the Groups best estimate of contained metal.
Revenue is subject to adjustment once the analysis of the product samples is completed, contract conditions have been fulfilled and final settlement terms are agreed.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, sales of concentrates and precipitates throughout each calendar month, as well as dor bars that are delivered after the 20th day of each month, are provisionally priced subject to a final adjustment based on the average price for the month following the delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Dor bars that are delivered in the first 20 days of each month are finally priced in the month of delivery.
For sales of goods that are subject to provisional pricing, revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met using the provisional price.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotation period stipulated in the contract until the quotation period ends.
The selling price of the metals can be reliably measured as these are actively traded on international exchanges.
The revaluing of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
The customer deducts treatment and refining charges before settlement.
Therefore, the fair value of consideration received for the sale of goods is net of those charges.
The Group recognises in selling expenses a levy in respect of the Extraordinary Mining Right as sales of gold and silver are recognised.
The Extraordinary Mining Right consists of a 0.5% rate, applicable to the owners of mining titles.
The payment must be calculated over the total sales of all mining concessions.
The payment of this mining right must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year and can be credited against corporate income tax.
The Group also recognises in selling expenses a discovery premium royalty equivalent to 1% of the value of the mineral extracted and sold during the year from certain mining titles granted by the Mexican Geological Survey SGM in the San Julin mine.
The premium is settled to SGM on a quarterly basis.
OTHER INCOME Other income is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Q EXPLORATION EXPENSES Exploration activity involves the search for mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
Exploration expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred and are recorded in the following captions: Cost of sales: costs relating to in-mine exploration, that ensure continuous extraction quality and extend mine life: and Exploration expenses: Costs incurred in geographical proximity to existing mines in order to replenish or increase reserves: and Costs incurred in regional exploration with the objective of locating new ore deposits in Mexico and Latin America and which are identified by project.
Costs incurred are charged to the income statement until there is sufficient probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals and a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 205 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 R TAXATION CURRENT INCOME TAX Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the country the Group operates.
DEFERRED INCOME TAX Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: Where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: Where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
MINING RIGHTS The Special Mining Right is considered an income tax under IFRS and states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities on temporary differences arising in the determination of the Special Mining Right see note 10.
SALES TAX Expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax, except: When the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as applicable: and When receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
206 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED S DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING The Group uses derivatives to reduce certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodities price which impact its financial and business transactions.
Hedges are designed to protect the value of expected production against the dynamic market conditions.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The full fair value of a derivative is classified as non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the item is more than 12 months.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement.
Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles, European foreign exchange options are valued using the Black Scholes model.
The Silverstream contract is valued using a Net Present Value valuation approach.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for the undertaken hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: CASH FLOW HEDGES For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded as in other comprehensive income and are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For gains or losses related to the hedging of foreign exchange risk these are included, in the line item in which the hedged costs are reflected.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised directly as finance costs, in the income statement of the related period.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss recognised directly in other comprehensive income from the period that the hedge was effective remains separately in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs, when it is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the income statement.
When hedging with options, the Group designates only the intrinsic value movement of the hedging option within the hedge relationship.
The time value of the option contracts is therefore excluded from the hedge designation.
Changes in fair value of time value is recognised in the income statement in finance costs.
EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 207 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 T BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes 12 or more months to get ready for its intended use or sale a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Where funds are borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where surplus funds are available for a short term from funds borrowed specifically to finance a project, the income generated from the temporary investment of such amounts is also capitalised and deducted from the total capitalised borrowing cost.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
U FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 30 and 31.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability: or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Further information on fair values is described in note 30.
V DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys shareholders or Board as appropriate.
Dividends payable to minority shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys subsidiaries.
208 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
SEGMENT REPORTING For management purposes, the Group is organised into operating segments based on producing mines.
At 31 December 2017, the Group has seven reportable operating segments as follows: The Fresnillo mine, located in the state of Zacatecas, an underground silver mine: The Saucito mine, located in the state of Zacatecas, an underground silver mine: The Cinega mine, located in the state of Durango, an underground gold mine: including the San Ramn satellite mine: The Herradura mine, located in the state of Sonora, a surface gold mine: The Soledad-Dipolos mine, located in the state of Sonora, a surface gold mine: The Noche Buena mine, located in state of Sonora, a surface gold mine: and The San Julin mine, located on the border of Chihuahua Durango states, an underground silver-gold mine.
Phase one of San Julin mine commenced commercial production in the third quarter of 2016 and phase two in the third quarter of 2017.
The operating performance and financial results for each of these mines are reviewed by management.
As the Groups chief operating decision-maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has not disclosed this information.
Management monitors the results of its operating segments separately for the purpose of performance assessment and making decisions about resource allocation.
Segment performance is evaluated without taking into account certain adjustments included in revenue as reported in the consolidated income statement, and certain costs included within cost of sales and gross profit which are considered to be outside of the control of the operating management of the mines.
The table below provides a reconciliation from segment profit to gross profit as per the consolidated income statement.
Other income and expenses included in the consolidated income statement are not allocated to operating segments.
Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
In 2017 and 2016, substantially all revenue was derived from customers based in Mexico.
OPERATING SEGMENTS The following tables present revenue and profit information regarding the Groups operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively: Year ended 31 December 2017 Adjustments SoledadNoche and 4 5 US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Cinega Dipolos Saucito Buena San Julin Other eliminations Total Revenues: 1 Third party 368,286 605,823 183,689 446,008 214,998 274,504 2,093,308 Inter-segment 79,907 79,907 Segment revenues 368,286 605,823 183,689 446,008 214,998 274,504 79,907 79,907 2,093,308 2 Segment profit 252,249 355,570 97,098 2,269 315,196 75,496 174,712 59,878 22,966 1,309,502 Depreciation and amortisation 367,609 Employee profit sharing 16,488 Gross profit as per the income statement 925,405 3 Capital expenditure 111,724 153,200 46,461 133,679 18,748 79,069 61,870 604,751 1 Total third party revenues include treatment and refining charges amounting US$139.9 million.
2 Segment profit excluding depreciation and amortisation and employee profit sharing.
During 2017 there were no foreign exchange hedging losses included in gross profit.
3 Capital expenditure represents the cash outflow in respect of additions to property, plant and equipment, including mine development, construction of leaching pads, purchase of mine equipment and capitalised stripping activity, excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision.
Significant additions the construction of facilities at San Julin phase II, the second dynamic leaching plant at Herradura and the construction of the Pyrites plant at Saucito.
4 During 2017, this segment did not operate due to the Bajo conflict note 26.
Segment profit is derived from the changes in the net realisable value allowance against inventory note 15.
5 Other inter-segment revenue corresponds to leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S. A. fide C. V: capital expenditure corresponds to Minera Juanicipio S. A fide C. V. FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 209 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Year ended 31 December 2016 Adjustments SoledadNoche and 4 5 6 US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Cinega Dipolos Saucito Buena San Julin Other eliminations Total Revenues: 1 Third party 327,957 655,025 169,530 459,590 225,374 66,441 1,586 1,905,503 Inter-segment 77,385 77,385 Segment revenues 327,957 655,025 169,530 459,590 225,374 66,441 77,385 75,799 1,905,503 2 Segment profit 224,163 369,896 100,105 12,977 363,780 83,852 45,833 63,379 17,854 1,246,131 Foreign exchange hedging losses 2,770 Depreciation and amortisation 346,502 Employee profit sharing 14,744 Gross profit as per the income statement 882,115 3 Capital expenditure 52,794 78,825 32,745 102,398 8,620 144,468 14,200 434,050 1 Total third party revenues include treatment and refining charges amounting US$141.1 million.
2 Segment profit excluding foreign exchange hedging losses, depreciation and amortisation and employee profit sharing.
Significant additions include the construction of second beneficiation plant Merrill Crowe at Herradura and the expansion of the flotation plant and the construction of the Pyrites plant at Saucito.
4 During 2016, this segment did not operate due to the Bajo conflict note 26.
5 Due to its size this segment was presented within Other in the financial statements for the year ended as at 31 December 2016.
6 Other includes inter-segment revenue corresponds to leasing services provided by Minera Bermejal, S. A. fide C. V. : capital expenditure corresponds to Minera Juanicipio S. A fide C. V. The presentation of capital expenditure has been changed by presenting San Julin separately to be consistent with the presentation in the 2017 table above.
REVENUES Revenues reflect the sale of goods, being concentrates, dor, slag and precipitates of which the primary contents are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
A REVENUES BY PRODUCT SOLD Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Lead concentrates containing silver, gold, lead and by-products 832,039 792,770 Dor and slag containing gold, silver and by-products 820,821 880,447 Zinc concentrates containing zinc, silver and by-products 195,837 120,889 Precipitates containing gold and silver 244,611 111,397 2,093,308 1,905,503 Substantially all lead concentrates, precipitates, dor and slag, were sold to Peoles metallurgical complex, Met-Mex, for smelting and refining.
210 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
REVENUES CONTINUED B VALUE OF METAL CONTENT IN PRODUCTS SOLD For products other than refined silver and gold, invoiced revenues are derived from the value of metal content adjusted by treatment and refining charges incurred by the metallurgical complex of the customer.
The value of the metal content of the products sold, before treatment and refining charges is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silver 844,815 724,024 Gold 1,125,290 1,133,067 Zinc 161,305 106,461 Lead 101,826 83,070 Value of metal content in products sold 2,233,236 2,046,622 Adjustment for treatment and refining charges 139,928 141,119 1 Total revenues 2,093,308 1,905,503 1 Includes provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives resulting in a gain of US$9.2 million 2016: loss of US$ 2.2 million.
During 2017 there were no hedging transactions impacting revenues 2016: gain of US$ 1.6 million.
For further detail, refer to note 2 p. The average realised prices for the gold and silver content of products sold, prior to the deduction of treatment and refining charges, were: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ per ounce US$ per ounce 2 Gold 1,267.4 1,246.5 2 Silver 16.9 17.2 2 Realised prices do not include the results of hedging.
COST OF SALES Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Depreciation and amortisation notes 2 e and 12 367,609 346,502 Personnel expenses note 7 89,629 80,360 Maintenance and repairs 115,670 90,650 Operating materials 153,221 131,786 Energy 144,298 117,995 Contractors 233,909 174,167 Freight 10,545 7,921 Insurance 4,786 4,990 Mining concession rights and contributions 11,589 10,347 Other 22,043 14,721 Cost of production 1,153,299 979,439 Losses on foreign currency hedges 2,770 Change in work in progress and finished goods ore inventories 16,873 61,488 Change in net realisable value allowance against inventory note 15 2,269 20,309 1,167,903 1,023,388 FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 211 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 6.
EXPLORATION EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Contractors 105,778 88,822 Administrative services 6,818 6,243 Mining concession rights and contributions 13,872 14,027 Personnel expenses note 7 6,749 5,521 Assays 2,850 2,982 Rentals 2,329 1,524 Other 2,712 2,063 141,108 121,182 These exploration expenses were mainly incurred in areas of the Fresnillo, Herradura, La Cinega, Saucito and San Julin mines, the San Ramn satellite mine and Orysivo, Guanajuato, Centauro Deep and Valles projects.
In addition, exploration expenses of US$8.3 million 2016: US$7.9 million were incurred in the year on projects located in Peru.
The following table sets forth liabilities generally trade payables corresponding to exploration activities of the Group companies engaged only in exploration, principally Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Liabilities related to exploration activities 1,947 1,643 The liabilities related to exploration activities recognised by the Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
Cash flows relating to exploration activities are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Operating cash out flows related to exploration activities 140,804 120,457 7.
PERSONNEL EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Employees profit sharing 17,150 15,145 Salaries and wages 39,448 36,296 Bonuses 12,112 10,233 Statutory healthcare and housing contributions 14,258 12,979 Other benefits 8,704 8,035 Vacations and vacations bonus 2,636 1,634 Social security 7,112 4,459 1 Post-employment benefits 4,224 3,567 Other 10,843 8,686 116,487 101,034 1 Post-employment benefits include US$0.4 million associated to benefits corresponding to the defined contribution plan 2016: US$1.5 million.
212 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
PERSONNEL EXPENSES CONTINUED A PERSONNEL EXPENSES ARE REFLECTED IN THE FOLLOWING LINE ITEMS: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cost of sales note 5 89,629 80,360 Administrative expenses 20,109 15,153 Exploration expenses note 6 6,749 5,521 116,487 101,034 B THE MONTHLY AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES DURING THE YEAR WAS AS FOLLOWS: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 No.
Mining 1,994 1,881 Plant concentration 602 550 Exploration 501 454 Maintenance 865 894 Administration and other 936 791 Total 4,898 4,570 8.
OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other income: 1 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 25,333 Rentals 3 Selling of scrap 1,444 610 Other 1,426 785 28,203 1,398 Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other expenses: Rentals 229 2 Maintenance 1,858 926 Donations 2,540 317 Environmental activities 1,790 1,005 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 1,103 Consumption tax expensed 1,031 940 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 3,005 Impairment available-for-sale financial assets 36 Other 3,887 3,146 11,371 10,442 1 Mainly corresponds to the sale of certain mining concession from the Fresnillo district to a third party for a consideration of US$26.0 million, resulting in a gain of US$24.8 million.
2 Costs relating to the rehabilitation of the facilities of Compaa Minera Las Torres, S. A. fide C. V. closed mine.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 213 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 9.
FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance income: Interest on short-term deposits and investments 11,368 4,542 Other 3,208 2,416 14,576 6,958 Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance costs: Interest on interest-bearing loans 35,808 29,006 1 Fair value movement on derivatives 41,389 40,294 Unwinding of discount on provisions 11,703 10,476 Other 753 547 89,653 80,323 1 Principally relates to the time value associated with gold commodity options see note 30 for further details.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE A MAJOR COMPONENTS OF INCOME TAX EXPENSE: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated income statement: Corporate income tax Current: Income tax charge 155,692 167,873 Amounts under over provided in previous years 8,676 1,646 164,368 166,227 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 45,003 53,581 Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 34,097 40,058 10,906 93,639 Corporate income tax 153,462 259,866 Special mining right Current: 1 Special mining right charge 19,415 24,502 19,415 24,502 Deferred: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7,805 8,910 Special mining right 27,220 33,412 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 180,682 293,278 1 The special mining right SMR allows the deduction of payments of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payable within the same legal entity.
During the fiscal year ended 31 December 2017, the Group credited US$15.7 million 2016: US$12.4 million of mining concession rights against the SMR.
Total mining concessions rights paid during the year were US$16.3 million 2016: US$15.4 million and have been recognised in the income statement within cost of sales and exploration expenses.
Mining concessions rights paid in excess of the SMR cannot be credited to SMR in future fiscal periods, and therefore no deferred tax asset has been recognised in relation to the excess.
Without regards to credits permitted under the SMR regime, the current special mining right charge would have been US$35.1 million 2016: US$36.9 million.
214 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED A MAJOR COMPONENTS OF INCOME TAX EXPENSE: CONTINUED Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Deferred income tax credit charge related to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income: Losses on cash flow hedges recycled to income statement 355 Changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 15,875 Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 2,653 13,418 Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans 148 388 Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income 2,801 1,714 B RECONCILIATION OF THE INCOME TAX EXPENSE AT THE GROUPS STATUTORY INCOME RATE TO INCOME TAX EXPENSE AT THE GROUPS EFFECTIVE INCOME TAX RATE: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accounting profit before income tax 741,489 718,240 Tax at the Groups statutory corporate income tax rate 30.0% 222,446 215,472 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,562 2,016 Inflationary uplift of the tax base of assets and liabilities 20,011 8,933 Current income tax over underprovided in previous years 472 1,303 1 Exchange rate effect on tax value of assets and liabilities 9,934 90,035 Non-taxable Non-deductible foreign exchange losses 4,242 2,157 Inflationary uplift of tax losses 5,084 2,891 IEPS tax credit note 10 e 26,181 24,020 Deferred tax asset not recognised 4,461 3,360 Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax 8,165 10,024 Other 2,862 1,689 Corporate income tax at the effective tax rate of 20.7% 2016: 36.2% 153,462 259,866 Special mining right 27,220 33,412 Tax at the effective income tax rate of 24.4% 2016: 40.8% 180,682 293,278 1 Mainly derived from the tax value of property, plant and equipment.
C MOVEMENTS IN DEFERRED INCOME TAX LIABILITIES AND ASSETS: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net liability 443,027 342,195 Income statement credit charge arising on corporate income tax 10,906 93,639 Income statement charge arising on special mining right 7,805 8,910 Exchange difference 3 Net charge credit related to items directly charged to other comprehensive income 2,801 1,714 Closing net liability 442,727 443,027 FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 215 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2017 and 2016, considering the nature of the related temporary differences, are as follows: Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Related party receivables 221,451 199,181 22,270 72,799 Other receivables 2,171 3,725 1,554 3,256 Inventories 162,842 163,113 271 43,868 Prepayments 898 1,803 923 10,727 Derivative financial instruments including Silverstream contract 147,535 134,984 12,551 4,469 Property, plant and equipment arising from corporate income tax 341,774 351,325 9,551 36,358 Exploration expenses and operating liabilities 44,121 24,303 19,818 4,083 Other payables and provisions 55,379 44,733 10,646 13,910 Losses carried forward 68,213 66,343 1,870 22,250 Post-employment benefits 1,465 1,685 220 364 Deductible profit sharing 4,249 3,905 344 226 Special mining right deductible for corporate income tax 30,661 29,100 1,561 8,034 Available-for-sale financial assets 16,818 14,175 2,643 13,419 Other 3,772 3,581 2,594 14,414 Net deferred tax liability related to corporate income tax 367,489 375,592 Deferred tax credit related to corporate income tax 10,906 93,639 Related party receivables arising from special mining right 21,379 18,764 2,616 3,557 Inventories arising from special mining right 11,107 8,274 2,831 1,341 Property plant and equipment arising from special mining right 64,966 56,945 8,020 4,012 Net deferred tax liability 442,727 443,027 Deferred tax credit charge 3,101 102,549 Reflected in the statement of financial position as follows: Deferred tax assets 48,950 20,023 Deferred tax  operations 491,677 463,050 Net deferred tax liability 442,727 443,027 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
On the basis of managements internal forecast, a deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses amounting to US$227.4 million 2016: US$221.1 million.
If not utilised, US$13.7 million 2016: US$10.7 million will expire within five years and US$213.6 million 2016: US$210.4 million will expire between six and ten years.
The Group has further tax losses and other similar attributes carried forward of US$37.4 million 2016: US$29.1 million on which no deferred tax is recognised due to insufficient certainty regarding the availability of appropriate future taxable profits.
D UNRECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ON INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,723 million 2016: US$1,949 million.
216 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED E CORPORATE INCOME TAX IMPUESTO SOBRE LA RENTA OR ISR AND SPECIAL MINING RIGHT SMR The Groups principal operating subsidiaries are Mexican residents for taxation purposes.
The rate of current corporate income tax is 30%.
During 2016 the Mexican Internal Revenue Law granted to taxpayers a credit in respect of an excise tax Special Tax on Production and Services, or IEPS for its acronym in Spanish paid when purchasing diesel used for general machinery and certain mining vehicles.
The credit can be applied against either the Groups own corporate income tax or the income tax withheld from third parties.
The credit is calculated on an entity-by-entity basis and expires one year after the purchase of the diesel.
In the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group applied a credit of US$23.2 million 2016: US$19.1 million in respect of the year and recognised a deferred tax asset of US$2.9 million 2016: US$4.8 million in respect of the IEPS incurred in 2017 and expected to be applied during 2018.
As the IEPS deduction is itself taxable, the deferred tax asset is recognised at 70% of the IEPS carried forward.
The net amount applied by the Group is presented in the reconciliation of the effective tax rate in note 10 b.
The SMR states that the owners of mining titles and concessions are subject to pay an annual mining right of 7.5% of the profit derived from the extractive activities and is considered as income tax under IFRS.
The SMR allows as a credit the payment of mining concessions rights up to the amount of SMR payable The 7.5% tax apply to a base of income before interest, annual inflation adjustment, taxes paid on the regular activity, depreciation and amortisation, as defined by the new ISR.
This SMR can be credited against the corporate income tax of the same fiscal year and its payment must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
The Company has no dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
As of 31 December 2017 and 2016, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Earnings: Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 560,578 426,986 Adjusted profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 481,019 333,516 Adjusted profit is profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement adjusted to exclude revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract of US$113.6 million gain US$79.5 million net of tax 2016: US$133.5 million gain US$93.5 million net of tax.
Adjusted earnings per share have been provided in order to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract, a derivative financial instrument.
2017 2016 thousands thousands Number of shares: Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 736,894 736,894 2017 2016 US$ US$ Earnings per share: Basic and diluted earnings per share 0.761 0.579 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations 0.653 0.453 FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 217 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 12.
2 From the additions in other assets category US$24.1 million 2016: US$ 54.9 million corresponds to the reassessment of mine closure rehabilitations costs see note 21.
218 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED The table below details construction in progress by operating mine Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 101,885 45,197 Herradura 98,401 37,740 Noche Buena 12,028 15,985 Cinega 29,039 17,348 Fresnillo 30,641 32,703 San Julin 53,383 270,154 1 Other 145,678 80,158 471,055 499,285 1 Manly corresponds to Juanicipio development project and Minera Bermejal, S. A. fide C. V. 2016: Juanicipio development project.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group capitalised US$11.4 million of borrowing costs within construction in progress 2016: US$18.2 million.
Borrowing costs were capitalised at the rate of 5.78% 2016: 5.78%.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS As at 31 December 2017 and 2016, the carrying amount of mining assets was fully supported by the higher of value in use and fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD computation of their recoverable amount.
Value in use and FVLCD was determined based on the net present value of the future estimated cash flows expected to be generated from the continued use of the CGUs.
For both valuation approaches management used price assumptions of US$1,300 ounce and US$19 ounce 2016: US$1,250 ounce and US$18 ounce for gold and silver, respectively.
Management considers that the models supporting the carrying amounts are most sensitive to commodity price assumptions and have therefore performed a sensitivity analysis for those CGUs, where a reasonable possible change in prices could lead to impairment.
Management has considered a low sensitivity by decreasing gold and silver prices by 5% 2016: gold and silver 10% and a high sensitivity by decreasing gold and silver prices by 10% 2016: gold 15% and silver 20%.
As at 31 December 2017 no impairment resulted in those CGU tested 2016: San Julin US$84.3 million under high sensitivity: US$nil under low sensitivity and Herradura US$109.6 million under high sensitivity: US$nil under low sensitivity.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 116,171 71,442 1 Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 19,877 Fair value change 8,808 44,729 Ending balance 144,856 116,171 Of which relates to investments in funds 19,877 1 Corresponds to the Companys investment in an investment fund held to obtain a financial return.
At 31 December 2017, several investments in quoted shares were valued below the cost paid by the Group.
This decrease has continued throughout the past 12-month period, which is considered to be prolonged, therefore an impairment of US$0.04 million was recognised as other expenses in the income statement.
During 2016 no impairment arose on the investment in quoted shares.
The fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 219 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 14.
SILVERSTREAM CONTRACT On 31 December 2007, the Group entered into an agreement with Peoles through which it is entitled to receive the proceeds received by the Peoles Group in respect of the refined silver sold from the Sabinas Mine Sabinas, a base metals mine owned and operated by the Peoles Group, for an upfront payment of US$350 million.
In addition, a per ounce cash payment of US$2.00 in years one to five and US$5.00 thereafter subject to an inflationary adjustment that commenced from 31 December 2013 is payable to Peoles.
The cash payment per ounce for the year ended 31 December 2017 was US$5.20 per ounce 2016: US$5.15 per ounce.
Under the contract, the Group has the option to receive a net cash settlement from Peoles attributable to the silver produced and sold from Sabinas, to take delivery of an equivalent amount of refined silver or to receive settlement in the form of both cash and silver.
If, by 31 December 2032, the amount of silver produced by Sabinas is less than 60 million ounces, a further payment is due from Peoles of US$1 per ounce of shortfall.
The Silverstream contract represents a derivative financial instrument which has been recorded at fair value and classified within non-current and current assets as appropriate.
The term of the derivative is based on Sabinas life of mine which is currently 38 years.
Changes in the contracts fair value, other than those represented by the realisation of the asset through the receipt of either cash or refined silver, are charged or credited to the income statement.
In the year ended 31 December 2017 total proceeds received in cash were US$43.3 million 2016: US$47.5 million of which, US$5.9 million was in respect of proceeds receivable as at 31 December 2016 2015: US$2.8 million.
Cash received in respect of the year of US$37.3 million 2016: US$44.8 million corresponds to 3.6 million ounces of payable silver 2016: 3.8 million ounces.
As at 31 December 2017, a further US$4.9 million 2016: US$5.9 million of cash receivable corresponding to 422,375 ounces of silver is due 2016: 538,756 ounces.
The US$113.6 million unrealised gain recorded in the income statement 2016: US$133.5 million gain resulted from the updating of assumptions used to value the Silverstream contract.
The most significant of these were the increase in the Sabinas mine silver reserves and resources, the unwinding of the discount, an increase in the forward price of silver, and the difference between the payments already received during the year ended 31 December 2017 and payments estimated in the valuation model as of 31 December 2016.
A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance is shown below: 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 467,529 384,771 Cash received in respect of the year 37,373 44,796 Cash receivable 4,925 5,974 Remeasurement gains recognised in profit and loss 113,656 133,528 Balance at 31 December 538,887 467,529 Less Current portion 32,318 28,718 Non-current portion 506,569 438,811 See note 30 for further information on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 31 for further information relating to market and credit risks associated with the Silverstream asset.
INVENTORIES As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands 1 Finished goods 10,957 5,736 2 Work in progress 175,016 189,047 3 Ore stockpile 15,115 18,253 Operating materials and spare parts 75,331 70,348 276,419 283,384 4 Accumulated write-down of work in progress inventory 2,269 Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories 5,314 4,265 Balance as 31 December at lower of cost and net realisable value 271,105 276,850 Less Current portion 179,485 187,499 5 Non-current portion 91,620 89,351 1 Finished goods include metals contained in concentrates and dor bars, and concentrates on hand or in transit to a smelter or refinery.
2 Work in progress includes metals contained in ores on leaching pads.
3 Ore stockpile includes ore mineral obtained during the development phase at San Julin.
4 Corresponds to ore inventory of the Soledad-Dipolos mine resulting from net realisable value calculations.
5 The non-current inventories are expected to be processed more than 12 months from the reporting date.
220 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
INVENTORIES CONTINUED Concentrates are a product containing sulphides with variable content of precious and base metals and are sold to smelters and or refineries.
Dor is an alloy containing a variable mixture of gold and silver that is delivered in bar form to refineries.
This content once processed by the smelter and refinery is sold to customers in the form of refined products.
The amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the year was US$1,170.1 million 2016: US$1,042.4 million before changes to the net realisable value of inventory.
The adjustment to the net realisable value allowance against work-in-progress inventory decreased US$2.2 million during the year 2016: US$20.3 million decrease.
The adjustment to the allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventory recognised as an expense was US$1.04 million 2016: US$0.7 million.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands 1 Trade and other receivables from related parties note 27 226,134 189,619 Value Added Tax receivable 85,979 70,426 Advances and other receivables from contractors 19,832 14,651 Other receivables from related parties note 27 4,925 5,973 Loans granted to contractors 1,403 1,401 Other receivables arising on the sale of fixed assets 57 386 Other receivables 4,612 4,693 342,942 287,149 Provision for impairment of other receivables 436 471 Trade and other receivables classified as current assets 342,506 286,678 Other receivables classified as non-current assets: Loans granted to contractors 129 990 129 990 342,635 287,668 1 Trade receivables from related parties includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$6.5 million as at 31 December 2017 2016: US$ 2.8 million.
Trade receivables are shown net of any corresponding advances, are non-interest-bearing and generally have payment terms of 46 to 60 days.
Loans granted to contractors bear interest of between LIBOR plus 1.5% to LIBOR plus 3% and mature over two years.
The total receivables denominated in US dollars were US$242.3 million 2016: US$206.8 million, and in pesos US$100.3 million 2016: US$80.9 million.
As of 31 December for each year presented, with the exception of other receivables in the table above, all trade and other receivables were neither past due nor impaired.
The amount past due and considered as impaired as of 31 December 2017 is US$0.4 million 2016: US$0.5 million.
In determining the recoverability of receivables, the Group performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the credit worthiness of the counterparty, see note 31 b. FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 221 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 17.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS The Group considers cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments when planning its operations and in order to achieve its treasury objectives.
As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 4,265 2,592 Short-term deposits 871,769 709,362 Cash and cash equivalents 876,034 711,954 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and four months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
Short-term deposits can be withdrawn at short notice without any penalty or loss in value.
As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Short-term investments 200,000 Short-term investments are made for fixed periods no longer than four months and earn interest at fixed rates without an option for early withdrawal.
As at 31 December 2017 there were no short-term investments 31 December 2016: US$200,000 held in fixed-term bank deposits.
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM Authorised share capital of the Company is as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 Class of share Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary Shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of 1.00 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 Issued share capital of the Company is as follows: Ordinary Shares Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares Number US$ Number At 1 January 2016 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 50,000 At 31 December 2016 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 50,000 At 31 December 2017 736,893,589 $368,545,586 50,000 50,000 As at 31 December 2017 and 2016, all issued shares with a par value of US$0.50 each are fully paid.
The rights and obligations attached to these shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares.
Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferrable.
222 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18.
EQUITY CONTINUED RESERVES SHARE PREMIUM This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
CAPITAL RESERVE The capital reserve arose as a consequence of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation as a result of using the pooling of interest method.
HEDGING RESERVE This reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge, net of tax.
When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or the loss is transferred out of equity to the income statement or the value of other assets.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS RESERVE This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax.
On disposal or on impairment, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION RESERVE The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial information of entities with a functional currency different to that of the presentational currency of the Group.
RETAINED EARNINGS ACCUMULATED LOSSES This reserve records the accumulated results of the Group, less any distributions and dividends paid.
DIVIDENDS DECLARED AND PAID The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 are as follows: US cents per Amount Ordinary Share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2017 1 Final dividend for 2016 declared and paid during the year 21.5 158,432 2 Interim dividend for 2017 declared and paid during the year 10.6 78,111 32.1 236,543 Year ended 31 December 2016 3 Final dividend for 2015 declared and paid during the year 3.3 24,686 4 Interim dividend for 2016 declared and paid during the year 8.6 63,373 11.9 88,059 1 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2017 and paid on 26 May 2017.
2 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 31 July 2017 and paid on 8 September 2017.
3 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 May 2016 and paid on 9 May 2016.
4 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 1 August 2016 and paid on 9 September 2016.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 223 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 20.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS SENIOR NOTES On 13 November 2013, the Group completed its offering of US$800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2023 the Notes.
Movements in the year in the debt recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 798,027 797,032 Accrued interest 46,267 46,267 1 Interest paid 46,267 46,267 Amortisation of discount and transaction costs 1,019 995 Closing balance 799,046 798,027 1 Accrued interest is payable semi-annually on 13 May and 13 November.
The Group has the following restrictions derived from the issuance of the Senior Notes the Notes : CHANGE OF CONTROL: Should the rating of the Senior Notes be downgraded as a result of a change of control defined as the sale or transfer of 35% or more of the common shares: the transfer of all or substantially all the assets of the Group: starting a dissolution or liquidation process: or the loss of the majority in the Board of Directors the Group is obligated to repurchase the Notes at an equivalent price of 101% of their nominal value plus the interest earnt at the repurchase date, if requested to do so by any creditor.
PLEDGE ON ASSETS: The Group shall not pledge or allow a pledge on any property that may have a material impact on business performance key assets.
Nevertheless, the Group may pledge the aforementioned properties provided that the repayment of the Notes keeps the same level of priority as the pledge on those assets.
PROVISION FOR MINE CLOSURE COST The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the estimated date of depletion of mine deposits.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning, dismantling, reclamation alternatives, timing, and the discount, foreign exchange and inflation rates applied.
During the year, the Group refined its estimation of costs by further analysing the currency in which costs will be incurred.
The Group has performed separate calculations of the provision by currency, discounting at corresponding rates.
As at 31 December 2017, the discount rates used in the calculation of the parts of the provision that relate to Mexican pesos range from 6.27% to 7.97% 2016: range of 6.61% to 7.74%.
The range for the current year parts that relate to US dollars range from 1.37% to 2.22% 2016: not applicable.
Mexican regulations regarding the decommissioning and rehabilitation of mines are limited and less developed in comparison to regulations in many other jurisdictions.
It is the Groups intention to rehabilitate the mines beyond the requirements of Mexican law, and estimated costs reflect this level of expense.
The Group intends to fully rehabilitate the affected areas at the end of the life of the mines.
224 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21.
PROVISION FOR MINE CLOSURE COST CONTINUED The provision is expected to become payable at the end of the production life of each mine, based on the reserves and resources, which ranges from three to 27 years from 31 December 2017 three to 27 years from 31 December 2016.
As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening balance 149,109 195,476 Increase Decrease to existing provision 1,024 21,745 Effect of change in estimation 19,678 Effect of changes in discount rate 281 13,570 Unwinding of discount 11,729 10,476 Payments 131 472 Foreign exchange 3,647 21,056 Closing balance 184,775 149,109 22.
PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLANS The Group has a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit plan.
The defined contribution plan was established as from 1 July 2007 and consists of periodic contributions made by each nonunionised worker and contributions made by the Group to the fund matching workers contributions, capped at 8% of the employees annual salary.
The defined benefit plan provides pension benefits based on each workers earnings and years of services provided by personnel hired through 30 June 2007 as well as statutory seniority premiums for both unionised and non-unionised workers.
The overall investment policy and strategy for the Groups defined benefit plan is guided by the objective of achieving an investment return which, together with contributions, ensures that there will be sufficient assets to pay pension benefits and statutory seniority premiums for non-unionised workers as they fall due while also mitigating the various risks of the plan.
However, the portion of the plan related to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers is not funded.
The investment strategies for the plan are generally managed under local laws and regulations.
The actual asset allocation is determined by current and expected economic and market conditions and in consideration of specific asset class risk in the risk profile.
Within this framework, the Group ensures that the trustees consider how the asset investment strategy correlates with the maturity profile of the plan liabilities and the respective potential impact on the funded status of the plan, including potential short-term liquidity requirements.
Death and disability benefits are covered through insurance policies.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 225 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The following tables provide information relating to changes in the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets: Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains losses in OCI Return on plan assets Actuarial Actuarial excluding changes changes Defined amounts arising from arising from benefit Balance at Sub-total included changes in changes in Sub-total increase due Balance at 1 January Net Foreign recognised Benefits in net demographic financial Experience Foreign included Contributions to personnel 31 December 2017 Service cost Interest exchange in the year paid interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange in OCI by employer transfer 2017 US$ thousands Defined benefit obligation 25,377 956 1,729 1,146 3,831 883 515 498 1,013 15 27,327 Fair value of plan assets 16,282 1,031 731 1,762 413 80 80 422 137 18,110 Net benefit liability 9,095 956 698 415 2,069 470 80 515 498 933 422 122 9,217 Pension cost charge to income statement Remeasurement gains losses in OCI Return on plan assets Actuarial Actuarial excluding changes changes Defined amounts arising from arising from benefit Balance at Sub-total included changes in changes in Sub-total increase due Balance at 1 January Net Foreign recognised Benefits in net demographic financial Experience Foreign included Contributions to personnel 31 December 2016 Service cost Interest exchange in the year paid interest assumptions assumptions adjustments exchange in OCI by employer transfer 2016 US$ thousands Defined benefit obligation 32,165 649 1,803 5,573 3,121 816 744 2,636 1,103 2,995 144 25,377 Fair value of plan assets 17,631 927 3,003 2,076 432 552 552 1,570 141 16,282 Net benefit liability 14,534 649 876 2,570 1,045 384 552 744 2,636 1,103 2,443 1,570 3 9,095 Of the total defined benefit obligation, US$7.5 million 2016: US$6.7 million relates to statutory seniority premiums for unionised workers which are not funded.
The expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period are US$nil.
The principal assumptions used in determining pension and other post-employment benefit obligations for the Groups plans are shown below: As at 31 December 2017 2016 % % Discount rate 7.67 7.52 Future salary increases NCPI 5.0 5.0 The life expectancy of current and future pensioners, men and women aged 65 and older will live on average for a further 23.1 and 26.3 years respectively 2016: 22.3 years for men and 25.5 for women.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 11 years 2016: 12.1 years.
The fair values of the plan assets were as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Government debt 556 746 State-owned companies 4,559 3,914 Mutual funds fixed rates 12,995 11,622 18,110 16,282 226 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT PLANS CONTINUED The pension plan has not invested in any of the Groups own financial instruments nor in properties or assets used by the Group.
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31 December 2017 is as shown below: Future salary increases Life expectancy of Assumptions Discount rate NCPI pensioners 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 1 Sensitivity level increase decrease increase decrease Increase Decrease Increase to the net defined benefit obligation US$ thousands 1,381 1,516 164 158 440 The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on net defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
The pension plan is not sensitive to future changes in salaries other than in respect of inflation.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade payables 93,664 68,216 Other payables to related parties note 27 9,057 3,173 Accrued expenses 18,600 16,797 Other taxes and contributions 13,628 33,447 134,949 121,633 Trade payables are mainly for the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractor services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 31.
COMMITMENTS A summary of capital expenditure commitments by operating mine is as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 64,511 32,933 Herradura 28,813 29,544 Noche Buena 1,643 3,677 Cinega 16,688 6,454 Fresnillo 19,570 12,079 San Julin 27,403 39,895 1 Other 83,729 20,133 242,357 144,715 1 Other includes commitments of Minera Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. and Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. 2016: Minera Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. and Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V.. FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 227 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 25.
OPERATING LEASES A OPERATING LEASES AS LESSOR Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 491 1,095 After one year but not more than five years 108 1,875 599 2,970 B OPERATING LEASES AS LESSEE The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for land, offices and equipment.
These leases have renewal terms at the option of the lessee with future lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
The Group has put in place several arrangements to finance mine equipment through loans and the sale of mine equipment to contractors.
In both cases, contractors are obligated to use these assets in rendering services to the Group as part of the mining work contract, during the term of financing or credit, which ranges from two to six years.
The Group considers that the related mining work contracts contain embedded operating leases.
The future minimum rental commitments under these leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 3,424 6,790 After one year but not more than five years 1,538 3,399 4,962 10,189 As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Minimum lease payments expensed in the year 4,916 4,142 26.
CONTINGENCIES As of 31 December 2017, the Group has the following contingencies: The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities SAT, by its Spanish acronym in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of corporate income tax returns, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances, the reviews may cover longer periods.
As such, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions, that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future.
There are currently a number of ongoing tax inspections that have been initiated by the SAT.
No findings or claims have been communicated to the Company in respect of these, other than relating to Penmont as discussed below.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome arising from these or any future inspections that may be initiated.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Group has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable.
228 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED With regards to Penmont tax audits, which commenced during 2015, the Company considers it completed the provision of all documentation required in order to demonstrate that all the 2012-2013 non-taxable income and tax deductions which are being challenged, are appropriate.
Penmont formally filed a writ before the Mexican Taxpayers Ombudsman PRODECON, per its Spanish acronym requesting a conclusive agreement in the matter.
SATs first, second and third response to the request detailed that, while the documentation provided was sufficient to demonstrate that all of non-taxable income and the majority of the tax deductions are correct, there are still two tax deductions to be approved.
In this sense, discussion with the SAT continue, and as long as the conclusive agreement is still in progress, the current auditing process is suspended and the tax authorities cannot determine a tax deficiency until PRODECON issues the final agreement under the terms agreed between Penmont and the SAT.
On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to the separation of the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate.
Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to: i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission: and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-Group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta or CUFIN account after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax.
On 30 November 2012, the Mexican government enacted a new federal labour law.
During 2014 management implemented certain actions as a part of an ongoing process in order to manage the exposure resulting from the issuance of the new labour law including any potential impacts on the operations and financial position of the Group, however, management does not expect any potential contingency or significant effect on the Groups financial statements as at 31 December 2017 and going forward.
New income tax and VAT legislation in respect of contractors came into effect on 1 January 2017, requiring management to ensure that contractors are compliant with their own tax obligations, including employment tax.
This has created a new obligation for Fresnillo to obtain and retain sufficient evidence of contractors fiscal compliance in order to deduct costs related to the contractors for income tax purposes and to recover input VAT.
In late 2017, the 2018 Federal Revenue Law clarified that if the online portal established by the tax authorities to facilitate compliance is used in 2018, it would be sufficient to discharge any 2017 compliance obligations.
Management considers that it is well progressed in meeting its obligations for 2017 and does not consider that any significant economic exposure will arise as a result of this new legislation with respect to the current year.
In regard to the ejido El Bajo matter previously reported by the Company: In 2009 five members of the El Bajo agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont Penmont, submitted a legal claim before the Unitarian Agrarian Court Tribunal Unitario Agrario of Hermosillo, Sonora, to have Penmont vacate an area of this surface land.
The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of the Soledad-Dipolos mine are located.
The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land.
The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
The Agrarian Court noted in that same year that certain remediation activities were necessary to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency SEMARNAT in this respect.
The Agrarian Court further issued a procedural order in execution of his ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the state they were in before Penmonts occupation.
In the opinion of the Company, this procedural order was excessive since this level of remediation was not part of the original agrarian ruling and also because the procedural order appeared not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits.
In December 2016, the Agrarian Court issued a subsequent procedural order in which the Court recognised that Penmont complied with the agrarian ruling by having returned the land in dispute and, furthermore, that remediation activities are to be conducted in accordance with Federal environmental guidelines and regulations, as supervised by the competent Federal authorities.
Remediation activities in this respect are pending as the agrarian members have not yet permitted Penmont physical access to the lands.
Penmont has already presented a conceptual mine closure and remediation plan before the Agrarian Court in respect of the approximately 300 hectares where Penmont conducted mining activities.
The agrarian community Ejido El Bajo appealed this procedural order from the Agrarian Court and a Federal District Court denied this appeal.
The agrarian community has presented in the month of August 2017 a further and last recourse against this ruling by the Federal District Court and the final result is pending.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 229 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 In addition, and as also previously reported by the Company, claimants in the El Bajo matter presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above.
Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont.
As previously reported, the Agrarian Court issued rulings declaring such occupation agreements over those land parcels to be null and void and that Penmont must remediate such lands to the state that they were in before Penmonts occupation as well as returning any minerals extracted from this area.
Given that Penmont has not conducted significant mining operations or has specific geological interest in these land parcels, any contingency relating to such land parcels is not considered material by the Company.
The case relating to the claims over these land parcels remains subject to finalisation.
Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in the El Bajo matter.
There remains significant uncertainty as to the finalisation and ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings.
RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS The Group had the following related party transactions during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 and balances as at 31 December 2017 and 2016.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party, as well as those who have a minority participation in Group companies and key management personnel of the Group.
A RELATED PARTY BALANCES Accounts receivable Accounts payable As at 31 December As at 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade: Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 225,741 189,584 397 301 Other: Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 4,925 5,974 Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 2,434 1,612 Servicios Especializados Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 1,786 36 Termoelctrica Peoles, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 1,650 908 Elica fide Coahuila S. A. fide C. V. 1,926 Other 392 34 864 316 Sub-total 231,058 195,592 9,057 3,173 Less-current portion 231,058 195,592 9,057 3,173 Non-current portion Related party accounts receivable and payable will be settled in cash.
Other balances with related parties: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silverstream contract: Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 538,887 467,529 The Silverstream contract can be settled in either silver or cash.
Details of the Silverstream contract are provided in note 14.
230 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED B PRINCIPAL TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES, INCLUDING INDUSTRIAS PEOLES S. A.
B fide C. V. THE COMPANYS PARENT, ARE AS FOLLOWS: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Income: 1 Sales: Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 2,101,579 1,905,503 Other income 3,173 2,381 Total income 2,104,752 1,907,884 1 Figures do not include hedging gains as the derivative transactions are not undertaken with related parties.
Figures are net of the adjustment for treatment and refining charges of US$139.9 million 2016: US$141.1 million and include sales credited to development projects of US$8.3 million 2016: US$1.6 million.
Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: 2 Administrative services : 3 Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 26,323 24,309 Servicios Especializados Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 18,239 16,015 44,562 40,324 Energy: Termoelectrica Peoles, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 20,415 16,011 Fuerza Elica del Istmo S. A. fide C. V. 1,678 1,794 Elica fide Coahuila S. A. fide C. V. 13,666 35,759 17,805 Operating materials and spare parts: Wideco Inc 4,534 5,254 Metalrgica Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 6,420 3,140 10,954 8,394 Equipment repair and administrative services: Serviminas, S. A. fide C. V. 8,406 8,268 Insurance premiums: Grupo Nacional Provincial, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 8,157 7,155 Other expenses: 3,795 2,085 Total expenses 111,633 84,031 2 Includes US$6.4 million 2016: US$4.7 million corresponding to expenses reimbursed.
3 Includes US$7.5 million 2016: US$9.5 million relating to engineering costs that were capitalised.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 231 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 C COMPENSATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL OF THE GROUP Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee who receive remuneration.
Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Salaries and bonuses 2,689 2,416 Post-employment benefits 235 208 Other benefits 373 345 Total compensation paid in respect of key management personnel 3,297 2,969 Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement 4,433 4,237 This compensation includes amounts paid to Directors disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement represents benefits accrued at the time the benefits were frozen.
There are no further benefits accruing under the defined benefit scheme in respect of current services.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION Fees due by the Group to its auditor during the year ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2017 2016 Class of services US$ thousands US$ thousands Fees payable to the Groups auditor for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 1,187 1,149 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services as follows: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 226 222 Audit-related assurance services 308 350 Tax compliance services 19 21 Other non-audit services 27 Total 1,767 1,742 232 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 2017 2016 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 560,807 424,962 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation and amortisation 5 367,609 346,502 Employee profit sharing 7 17,150 15,145 Deferred income tax 10 3,101 102,549 Current income tax expense 10 183,783 190,729 Gain Loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 8 25,333 1,103 Other losses 981 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 3,005 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 8 36 Net finance costs 33,674 33,019 Foreign exchange loss gain 11,434 539 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement 58 944 Non-cash movement on derivatives 41,389 40,345 Changes in fair value of Silverstream 14 113,656 133,528 Working capital adjustments Increase in trade and other receivables 44,381 39,526 Increase Decrease in prepayments and other assets 708 113 Decrease in inventories 5,745 23,725 Increase in trade and other payables 36,426 5,133 Cash generated from operations 1,070,816 1,012,774 Income tax paid 292,063 102,255 Employee profit sharing paid 17,282 12,561 Net cash from operating activities 761,471 897,958 30.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS A FAIR VALUE CATEGORY As at 31 December 2017 US$ thousands At fair value Available-for-sale Loans At fair value through profit investments at fair and through OCI cash Financial assets: or loss value through OCI receivables flow hedges 1 Trade and other receivables note 16 236,859 Available-for-sale financial assets note 13 144,856 Silverstream contract note 14 538,887 1 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts note 4 6,511 Derivative financial instruments note 30 c 311 71 At fair value At fair value through profit or At amortised through OCI cash Financial liabilities: loss cost flow hedges Interest-bearing loans note 20 799,046 Trade and other payables note 23 102,721 Derivative financial instruments note 30 c 37 19,179 1 Trade and other receivables and embedded derivative within sales contracts are presented net in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 233 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 As at 31 December 2016 US$ thousands At fair value Available-for-sale Loans At fair value through profit investments at fair and through OCI cash Financial assets: or loss value through OCI receivables flow hedges 1 Trade and other receivables note 16 213,750 Available-for-sale financial assets note 13 116,171 Silverstream contract note 14 467,529 Derivative financial instruments note 30 c 145 23,005 At fair value At fair value through profit or At amortised through OCI cash Financial liabilities: loss cost flow hedges Interest-bearing loans note 20 798,027 Trade and other payables note 23 70,442 1 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts note 4 2,750 Derivative financial instruments note 30 c 646 1 Trade and other receivables and embedded derivative within sales contracts are presented net in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
B FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying amount Fair value 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Available-for-sale financial assets 144,856 116,171 144,856 116,171 Silverstream contract note 14 538,887 467,529 538,887 467,529 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 6,511 6,511 Derivative financial instruments 382 23,150 382 23,150 Financial liabilities: 2 Interest-bearing loans note 20 799,046 798,027 878,864 840,904 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 2,750 2,750 Derivative financial instruments 19,216 646 19,216 646 2 Interest-bearing loans are categorised in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
234 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED B FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT CONTINUED The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: As of 31 December 2017 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 6,511 6,511 Options commodity contracts 71 71 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts 311 311 Silverstream contract 538,887 538,887 382 538,887 539,269 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 144,856 144,856 144,856 382 145,238 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Options commodity contracts 19,179 19,179 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts 37 37 19,216 6,511 25,727 As of 31 December 2016 Fair value measure using Quoted prices in Significant Significant active markets observable unobservable Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Options commodity contracts 23,005 23,005 Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 145 145 Silverstream contract 467,529 467,529 23,150 467,529 490,679 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 116,171 116,171 116,171 23,150 467,529 606,850 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 2,750 2,750 Options commodity contracts 66 66 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts 580 580 646 2,750 3,396 FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 235 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
A reconciliation of the opening balance to the closing balance for Level 3 financial instruments other than Silverstream which is disclosed in note 14 is shown below: 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 2,750 532 Changes in fair value 15,068 1,718 Realised embedded derivatives during the year 5,807 500 Balance at 31 December 6,511 2,750 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following valuation techniques were used to estimate the fair values: OPTION AND FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The foreign currency forward Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot exchange rates, the yield curves of the respective currencies as well as the currency basis spreads between the respective currencies.
The foreign currency option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot exchange rates, interest rates and the volatility of the currency.
OPTION COMMODITY CONTRACTS The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
The option commodity Level 2 contracts are measured based on observable spot commodity prices, the yield curves of the respective commodity as well as the commodity basis spreads between the respective commodities.
The option contracts are valued using the Black Scholes model, the significant inputs to which include observable spot commodities price, interest rates and the volatility of the commodity.
SILVERSTREAM CONTRACT The fair value of the Silverstream contract is determined using a valuation model including unobservable inputs Level 3.
This derivative has a term of over 20 years and the valuation model utilises a number of inputs that are not based on observable market data due to the nature of these inputs and or the duration of the contract.
Inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine over the contract life, the future price of silver, future foreign exchange rates between the Mexican peso and US dollar, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
The estimate of the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine requires estimates of the recoverable silver reserves and resources, the related production profile based on the Sabinas mine plan and the expected recovery of silver from ore mined.
The estimation of these inputs is subject to a range of operating assumptions and may change over time.
Estimates of reserves and resources are updated annually by Peoles, the operator and sole interest holder in the Sabinas mine and provided to the Company.
The production profile and estimated payable silver that will be recovered from ore mined is based on the latest plan and estimates, also provided to the Company by Peoles.
The inputs assume no interruption in production over the life of the Silverstream contract and production levels which are consistent with those achieved in recent years Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant unobservable inputs described above, and determines their impact on the total fair value.
The significant unobservable inputs are not interrelated.
The fair value of the Silverstream is not significantly sensitive to a reasonable change in future exchange rates, however, it is to a reasonable change in future silver price, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
For further information relating to the Silverstream contract see note 14.
The sensitivity of the valuation to the inputs relating to market risks, being the price of silver, foreign exchange rates, inflation and the discount rate is disclosed in note 31.
236 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED B FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT CONTINUED QUOTED INVESTMENTS: The fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Level 1 INTEREST-BEARING LOANS The fair value of the Groups interest-bearing loan, is derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Level 1 EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES WITHIN SALES CONTRACTS: Sales of concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are provisionally priced and revenue is initially recognised using this provisional price and the Groups best estimate of the contained metal.
Revenue is subject to final price and metal content adjustments subsequent to the date of delivery see note 2 p. This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and is separated from the sales contract.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal content is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the relevant sales contract.
The selling price of metals can be reliably measured as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges but the estimated metal content is a non-observable input to this valuation Level 3.
At 31 December 2017 the fair value of embedded derivatives within sales contracts was US$6.5 million 2016: US$ 2.7 million.
The revaluation effects of embedded derivatives arising from these sales contracts are recorded as an adjustment to revenues.
C DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with costs incurred in Mexican pesos and other currencies.
The Group also enters into option contracts to manage its exposure to commodity price risk as described in note 2 s. The following tables summarise the fair value of derivative financial instruments held as of 31 December 2017 and 2016.
As at 31 December 2017 2016 Financial assets US$ thousands US$ thousands Currency contracts Forward contracts: Euro 193 145 Swedish krona 104 Canadian dollar 14 Commodity contracts 1 Option contracts : Gold 23,005 Lead 71 Total derivative related assets 382 23,150 Less-current portion 382 6,618 2 Non-current portion 16,532 1 Option contracts operate as zero cost collars.
2 Non-current portion corresponds to Gold option contracts that mature in a period over one year from the reporting date until 30 December 2019.
FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 237 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 As at 31 December 2017 2016 Financial liabilities US$ thousands US$ thousands Currency contracts Forward contracts: Euro 12 570 Canadian dollar 10 Swedish krona 25 Commodity contracts 1 Option contracts : Gold 18,096 16 Lead 2 Zinc 1,083 48 Total derivative related liabilities 19,216 646 Less-current portion 4,992 630 2 Non-current portion 14,224 16 1 Option contracts operate as zero cost collars.
The following table summarises the movements in deferred gains or losses on foreign exchange and price commodity derivative instruments qualifying for hedge accounting, net of tax effects, recorded in other comprehensive income for the year: As at 31 December 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 36,214 Gains recycled to revenue during the year 1,586 Losses recycled to cost of sales during the year 2,770 Unrealised losses before tax arising during the year 52,918 Deferred tax effect recorded in other comprehensive income during the year 15,520 Ending balance During the year ended 31 December 2017 all the contracted hedging position were out of the money and therefore all the mark-to-market valuation has been taken to income within financial income expense.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise trade receivables, cash, available-forsale financial assets, interest-bearing loans and trade payables.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Market risk, including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate and equity price risks: Credit risk: and Liquidity risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
238 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED OVERVIEW CONTINUED A MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
In the following tables, the effect on equity excludes the changes in retained earnings as a direct result of changes in profit before tax.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK The Group has financial instruments that are denominated in Mexican peso, euro and Swedish krona which are exposed to foreign currency risk.
Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar include the purchase of services, fixed assets, spare parts and the payment of dividends.
As a result, the Group has financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican peso.
In order to manage the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk on expenditure denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, the Group has entered into certain forward and option derivative contracts with maturity dates from 2018 see note 30 for additional detail.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods for the purposes of calculating the sensitivity with relation to derivative financial instruments.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase Weakening decrease Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands 2017 20% 10% 2016 15% 78 10% 67 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase Weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2017 10% 3,783 10% 1,365 2016 10% 63 10% 94 FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 239 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the euro on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase Weakening decrease Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands 2017 10% 1,058 10% 1,056 2016 5% 459 10% 1,024 FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK SILVERSTREAM Future foreign exchange rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in the Mexican peso as compared to the US dollar, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening increase Weakening of decrease Year ended 31 December US dollar US$ thousands 2017 20% 781 10% 521 2016 15% 1,436 10% 1,223 COMMODITY RISK The Group has exposure to changes in metals prices specifically silver, gold, lead and zinc which have a significant effect on the Groups results.
These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles.
The Group uses derivative instruments to hedge against an element of gold, zinc and lead price.
The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in commodities prices, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity shown in the table below relates to changes in fair value of commodity derivatives financial instruments contracts and embedded derivatives in sales.
Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: increase increase Increase Decrease in commodity prices decrease decrease Year ended 31 December Gold Silver Zinc Lead US$ thousands US$ thousands 2017 10% 10% 20% 15% 83,433 19,164 10% 10% 20% 15% 5,105 1,818 2016 10% 25% 40% 40% 28,516 15% 20% 30% 15% 36,031 120,715 240 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED OVERVIEW CONTINUED COMMODITY PRICE RISK SILVERSTREAM Future silver price is one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in future silver prices, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in silver price is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
There is no impact on the Groups equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit before tax: Increase increase Decrease in decrease Year ended 31 December silver price US$ thousands 2017 10% 72,779 10% 72,779 2016 25% 157,406 20% 125,925 INTEREST RATE RISK The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally relating to the cash balances and the Silverstream contract held at the balance sheet date.
Interest-bearing loans are at a fixed rate, therefore the possibility of a change in interest rate only impacts its fair value but not its carrying amount.
Therefore, interest-bearing loans and loans from related parties are excluded from the table below.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date.
There is no impact on the Groups equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in interest rate US$ thousands 2017 90 7,898 50 4,388 2016 65 5,943 20 1,829 The sensitivity shown in the table above primarily relates to the full year of interest on cash balances held as at the year end.
INTEREST RATE RISK SILVERSTREAM Future interest rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in interest rate is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in interest rate US$ thousands 2017 90 58,798 50 37,935 2016 65 35,908 20 12,051 FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 241 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 INFLATION RATE RISK INFLATION RATE RISK SILVERSTREAM Future inflation rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract to a reasonably possible change in the inflation rate, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in inflation is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Effect on profit Basis point before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in inflation rate US$ thousands 2017 100 88 100 83 2016 100 190 100 188 EQUITY PRICE RISK The Group has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale financial assets.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale financial assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Groups profit before tax and equity: Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Increase increase increase Decrease decrease decrease Year ended 31 December in equity price US$ thousands US$ thousands 2017 40% 28,972 65% 65,408 2016 100% 116,171 50% 58,086 B CREDIT RISK Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The financial assets are trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, the Silverstream contract and available-for-sale financial assets.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties failure to honour their obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counter-party.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties with what the Group considers to have an appropriate credit rating.
As disclosed in note 27, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties.
At each balance sheet date, the Groups financial assets were neither impaired nor past due, other than Other receivables as disclosed in note 16.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses from foreign currency hedging contracts.
The Companys foreign currency hedging contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
The Group has a high concentration of trade receivables with one counterparty Met-Mex Peoles, the Groups primary customer throughout 2017 and 2016.
A further concentration of credit risk arises from the Silverstream contract.
Both Met-Mex and the counterparty to the Silverstream contract are subsidiaries in the Peoles group which currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and is considered by management to be of appropriate credit rating.
242 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED OVERVIEW CONTINUED B CREDIT RISK CONTINUED The Groups surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. which manages cash and cash equivalents, including short-term investments investing in a number of financial institutions.
Accordingly, on an ongoing basis the Group deposits surplus funds with a range of financial institutions, depending on market conditions.
In order to minimise exposure to credit risk, the Group only deposits surplus funds with financial institutions with a credit rating of MX-1 Moodys and mxA-1 Standard and Poors and above.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had concentrations of credit risk as 23% of surplus funds were deposited with one financial institution of which 17% was held in short-term Mexican government paper.
The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes.
See note 13 for the maximum credit exposure to available-for-sale financial assets, note 17 for short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents and note 27 for related party balances with Met-Mex.
The maximum credit exposure with relation to the Silverstream contract is the value of the derivative as at 31 December 2017, being US$538.9 million 2016: US$467.5 million.
C LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
US$ thousands Within 1 year 23 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2017 Interest-bearing loans note 20 46,267 92,534 92,534 846,267 1,077,602 Trade and other payables 102,311 102,311 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 4,992 14,224 19,216 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts liability 6,511 6,511 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2016 Interest-bearing loans note 20 46,267 92,534 92,534 892,534 1,123,869 Trade and other payables 71,389 71,389 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 630 16 646 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts liability 2,750 2,750 FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 243 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 The payments disclosed for financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows.
However, those amounts may be settled gross or net.
The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2017 Inflows 15,174 15,174 Outflows 14,884 14,884 Net 290 290 US$ thousands Within 1 year 2-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2016 Inflows 10,932 10,932 Outflows 11,229 11,229 Net 297 297 The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from currency option contracts which the Group expects to be exercised during 2018 as at 31 December 2017 and during 2017 as at 31 December 2016, either by the Group or counterparty.
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value.
Management considers capital to consist of equity and certain interest-bearing loans, including loans from related parties, as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains or losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and available-for-sale financial assets.
In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders capital invested in the Group management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
The Groups dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows, including cash flows from the Silverstream.
In managing its capital, the Group considers its cash and other liquid asset position, as set out below: 2017 2016 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash and cash equivalents note 17 876,034 711,954 Short-term investments note 17 200,000 Available-for-sale financial instruments held in funds note 13 19,877 Cash and other liquid assets position 895,911 911,954
