FRESNILLO STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL TODAY REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 279 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL CALENDAR REPORT A SCAM Preliminary Statement 27 February 2018 If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA using First Interim Management Statement 25 April 2018 the form at www.
uk scams where you can also review the latest Annual General Meeting 30 May 2018 scams or call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Interim Statement 31 July 2018 Second interim Management Statement 24 October 2018 If you have already paid money to share fraudsters then contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. DIVIDEND PAYMENT SCHEDULE For further information, please visit our website: 2017 Final Dividend Record Date 27 April 2018 www.
com or contact: 2017 Final Dividend Payment Date 4 June 2018 Fresnillo plc 2018 Interim Dividend Record Date 10 August 2018 Tel: 44 0 20 7399 2470 2018 Interim Dividend Payment Date 7 September 2018 Gabriela Mayor, Head of Investor Relations REGISTRAR JOINT CORPORATE BROKER Equiniti Ltd Merrill Lynch International FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Aspect House, Spencer Road, 2 King Edward Street This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, Lancing London EC1A 1HQ forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the United Kingdom terms believes, estimates, plans, projects, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will, or should or, in each case, their negative or REGISTERED OFFICE AUDITOR other variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of 21 Upper Brook Street Ernst & Young LLP strategy, plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions.
These London W1K 7PY 1 More London Place forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical United Kingdom London SE1 2AF facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this document United Kingdom and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Groups intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS things, the Groups results of operations, financial position, liquidity, Calzada Legaria No.
549 prospects, growth, strategies and the silver and gold industries.
By Torre 2, Piso 11 their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty Delegacin Miguel Hidalgo because they relate to future events and circumstances.
11250 Mexico, D. F. Mexico Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual results of the Groups operations, financial position and SPONSOR AND CORPORATE liquidity, and the development of the markets and the industry in which BROKER the Group operates, may differ materially from those described in, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited or suggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in this 25 Bank Street document.
In addition, even if the results of operations, financial London E14 5JP position and liquidity, and the development of the markets and the United Kingdom industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forwardlooking statements contained in this document, those results or SHARE FRAUD WARNING developments may not be indicative of results or developments in Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and subsequent periods.
A number of factors could cause results and offered shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inflated developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating by the forward-looking statements including, without limitation, in boiler rooms, mostly based abroad.
While high profits are promised, general economic and business conditions, industry trends, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
competition, commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency Most victims are experienced investors, losing on average 20,000. fluctuations including the US dollar and Mexican peso exchange rates, the Groups ability to recover its reserves or develop new PROTECT YOURSELF reserves, including its ability to convert its resources into reserves If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, and its mineral potential into resources or reserves, changes in its inflated prices for shares you own, or free company or research reports, business strategy, political and economic uncertainty.
take these steps before handing over any money: Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materially from 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation.
Any forward-looking statements in this document speak 2.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk register only as of the date of this document, reflect the Groups current view to ensure they are authorised.
with respect to future events and are subject to risks relating to future 3.
Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the firm.
events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the 4.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are no Groups operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity.
contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Investors should specifically consider the factors identified in this 5.
Search the list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing document which could cause actual results to differ before making business with.
Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus 6.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or applicable law, the Group explicitly disclaims any obligation or If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares, you will not have undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions to any access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services forward-looking statements in this document that may occur due Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
to any change in the Groups expectations or to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
280 FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES FRESNILLO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
