Financial Statements V. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements At 31 December 2017 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION NMC Health plc the Company or Parent is a Company which was incorporated in England and Wales on 20 July 2011.
The Company is a public limited company operating in the United Arab Emirates UAE, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Colombia, Italy, Denmark and Brazil.
The address of the registered office of the Company is Level 1, Devonshire House, One Mayfair Place, London, W1J 8AJ.
The registered number of the Company is 7712220.
The Companys immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals H. E. Saeed Mohamed Butti Mohamed Al Qebaisi H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr BR Shetty and Mr Khalifa Butti Omair Yousif Ahmad Al Muhairi Mr. Khalifa Bin Butti who are all shareholders and of whom two are directors of the Company and who together have the ability to control the Company.
The Parent and its subsidiaries collectively the Group are engaged in providing professional medical services, home care services, long term care services and the provision of all types of research and medical services in the field of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction, and the rendering of business management services to companies in the health care and hospital sector.
The Group is also engaged in wholesale of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics, food, IT products and services.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 6 March 2018 and the consolidated statement of financial position was signed on the Boards behalf by Mr Prasanth Manghat and Mr Prashanth Shenoy.
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments and contingent consideration payable which have been measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods, presented.
FUNCTIONAL AND REPORTING CURRENCY The functional currency of the Company and its subsidiaries in the UAE is the UAE Dirham and the functional currency of the subsidiaries operating outside UAE is the currency of those respective countries.
The reporting currency of the Group is United States of America Dollar US$ as this is a more globally recognised currency.
The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar at a rate of 3.673 per US Dollar.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars $000 except when otherwise indicated.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Review on pages 12 to 35.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 25.
The Group has two diverse operating divisions, Healthcare and Distribution, both of which operate in a growing market.
The directors have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to.
In its assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, the directors have considered the adequacy of financial resources in order to manage its business risks successfully, together with other areas of potential risk such as regulatory, insurance and legal risks.
The Group has considerable financial resources including banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups and utilises short and medium term working capital facilities to optimise business funding.
Debt covenants are reviewed by the Board each month.
The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group, the spread of bankers and debt facilities mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its expansion through acquisitions and in relation to working capital requirements.
The Group delivered a strong performance in 2017.
Both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions have continued their positive growth in revenue during 2017.
Net profit and earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortisation EBITDA of both healthcare and distribution divisions have increased in 2017.
EBITDA margin of Distribution is almost the same as last year whereas for Healthcare it increased slightly which is due to opening of new facilities during the year.
The directors have reviewed the business plan for 2018 and the five-year cash flow, together with growth forecasts for the healthcare sector in the UAE.
The directors consider the Groups future forecasts to be reasonable.
The directors have not identified any other matters that may impact the viability of the Group in the medium term and therefore they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 2.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2017.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: Power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
To support this presumption and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee Rights arising from other contractual arrangements The Groups voting rights and potential voting rights The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income OCI are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries listed below: Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December incorporation 2017 2016 Direct subsidiaries: NMC Holding Co LLC UAE 100% 100% NMC Health Holdco Limited UK 100% 100% Indirect subsidiaries: NMC Healthcare LLC UAE 100% 100% New Pharmacy Company WLL UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 100% 100% NMC Specialty Hospital LLCDubai UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Trading LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% Bait Al Shifaa Pharmacy LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre LLC-Sharjah UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Specialty Hospital LLC-Al Ain UAE 100% 100% Reliance Information Technology LLC UAE 100% 100% BR Medical Suites FZ LLC UAE 100% 100% Bright Point Royal Womens Hospital LLC UAE 100% 100% NMC Day Surgery Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% NMC Hospital LLC DIP Hospital UAE 100% 100% Medifertil, S. A Columbia 61.90% 61.90% Centro fide infertilidad y Reproduccion Humana SLU CIRH Spain 88.40% 88.40% Centro fide Medicina della Riproduzione Biogenesi Italy 53.00% 53.00% EUVITRO, S. L. U Spain 88.40% 88.40% Copenhagen Fertility Center Holding Aps DK Denmark 79.60% 79.60% Huntington Centro fide Medicina Reproductive, S A BR Brazil 53% 53% ProVita International Medical Center LLC UAE 100% 100% 100 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 2.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION CONTINUED Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December incorporation 2017 2016 Lifewise Home Healthcare LLC UAE 100% 100% NMC Royal Hospital LLC UAE 100% 100% The American Surgecenter Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 90% The American Surgecenter LLC UAE 100% 90% Americare LLC UAE 100% 90% Trans Arabia Drug Store LLC UAE 75% 75% Sunny Specialty Medical Centre LLC.
UAE 100% 100% Sunny Medical Centre LLC.
UAE 100% 100% New Sunny Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% Sunny Al Buhairah Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% Sunny Al Nadha Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% Sunny Dental Care LLC.
UAE 100% 100% Grand Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 100% Hamad Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 100% Sharjah Pharmacy L. L. C UAE 100% 100% Sunny Sharqan Medical Centre L. L. C. UAE 100% 100% NMC Royal Medical Centre L. L. C. UAE 100% 100% NMC Healthcare L. L. C. Oman 100% 100% Fulfil Trading L. L. C. UAE 100% 100% Nadia Medical Centre L. L. C. UAE 100% 100% Cooper Dermatology and Dentistry Clinic UAE 100% 100% Cooper Health Clinic UAE 100% 100% Fakih IVF Fertility Centre LLC UAE 51% 51% Fakih IVF LLC UAE 51% 51% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLCAbu Dhabi branch.
UAE 100% 100% New Marketing & Trading Co. LLC-Abu Dhabi UAE 100% 100% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLCAl Ain branch UAE 100% 100% New Marketing & Trading Co LLC-Al Ain branch.
UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Trading LLC.
-branch 2 UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Trading LLC-branch 3 UAE 100% 100% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading LLCAjman branch UAE 100% 100% National Marketing & Trading Co. LLC-Ajman UAE 100% 100% New Marketing & Trading Company LLC-Ajman branch UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading LLC-Ajman branch UAE 100% 100% Beiersdorf Cosmetics Trading Co. LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% National Marketing & Trading Co. LLC Dubai branch UAE 100% 100% New Marketing & Trading Co. LLCDubai branch UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Trading Store LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Veterinary Medicine & Equipment Trading Co LLC-Dubai UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading LLCDubai branch UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading LLC Fujairah branch UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading RAKbranch LLC UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre L. L. C. branch Al-Ain, Al wadi UAE 100% 100% NMC Pharmacy UAE 100% 100% NMC Pharmacy-Branch UAE 100% 100% PVHC KSA KSA 100% 100% TVM KSA Acquisition 2 Ltd. Cyprus 100% 100% NMC Royal Medical Centre LLC-Branch UAE 100% 100% Muscat Central Healthcare L. L. C. Oman 100% 100% NMC Healthcare India Pvt.
Ltd. India 100% 100% NMC International Trading L. L. C. UAE 100% 100% Cooper Health Clinic-Branch UAE 100% 100% New Reproductive Care Ltd. Cayman 51% 51% New Medical Centre Abu Dhabi branch UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Trading LLC branch 1 UAE 100% 100% NMC Trading LLC branch UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Pharmacy Al Ain branch1 UAE 100% 100% Focus Optics UAE 100% 100% Bright Point Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 100% Lotus Pharmacy LLC UAE 100% 100% New Medial Centre Pharmacy LLC Sharjah UAE 100% 100% NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 101 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 2.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION CONTINUED Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December incorporation 2017 2016 New Medical Centre Trading Store LLC-Abu Dhabi Br UAE 100% 100% Provita International Medical Centre LLC Alain branch UAE 100% 100% NMC Medical Professional Trading Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% New Pharmacy Company WLL branch 1 UAE 100% 100% New Pharmacy Company WLL branch 2 UAE 100% 100% New Pharmacy Company WLL branch 6 UAE 100% 100% Royal Arsom Wellness Centre LLC UAE 100% 100% NMC Medical Centre branch 2 scientific store UAE 100% 100% New Medical Centre Pharmacy LLC Alain UAE 100% 100% Fertilitetsklinikken Lygten A S Denmark 79.60% 79.60% Luarmia, S. L. Spain 88.40% 88.40% Al Aseel Laundry UAE 100% 100% Zari Spa & Beauty Centre UAE 100% 100% Zari Spa for Men UAE 100% 100% PEL Assistencia A Infertillidade LTDA Brazil 53% 53% Mustashfa Jadeed Fund.
KSA 100% Al Qadi Speciality Hospital LLC KSA 60% As Salama Hospital LLC KSA 70% Al Zahra Private Hospital Company UAE 100% Sunny Halwan Speciality Medical Centre UAE 100% Hamad Drug Store LLC UAE 100% Sunny Maysloon Speciality Medical Centre LLC UAE 100% Centre fide Reproduccio Asistida del Fecunmed Spain 70.7% NMC Royal Medical Centre LLC Oman 100% NMC Trading LLC Oman 100% The Group acquired an additional 10% interest in the voting shares of Americare LLC, The American Surgecenter Pharmacy LLC and the American Surgecenter LLC increasing its ownership interest to 100% for cash consideration of US$2,615,000.
The Group recorded a loss of US$1,279,000 on this in retained earnings.
2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The key assumptions concerning the future, key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES Impairment of inventories Inventories are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
When inventories become old or obsolete, an estimate is made of their net realisable value.
For individually significant amounts this estimation is performed on an individual basis.
Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are old or obsolete, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the inventory type and the Groups policy for inventory provisioning.
The gross carrying amount of inventories at 31 December 2017 was US$182,549,000 2016: US$145,565,000 and the provision for old and obsolete items at 31 December 2017 was US$1,219,000 2016: US$1,178,000 note 20.
Impairment of accounts receivable An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
For individually significant amounts, this estimation is performed on an individual basis.
Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are past due or claims which can potentially be rejected, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the length of time past due, based on historical recovery rates.
A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired pertains to Groups operations in UAE, these receivables are from insurance companies and government-linked entities in the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures.
Payments continue to be received from these customers and accordingly the risk of non-recoverability is considered to be low.
Any difference between the amounts actually collected in future periods and the amounts expected will be recognised in the consolidated income statement.
102 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES CONTINUED Impairment of non-financial assets Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
The fair value less costs of disposal calculation is based on available data from binding sales transactions, conducted at arms length, for similar assets or observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset.
The value in use calculation is based on a DCF model.
The cash flows are derived from the budget for the next five years and do not include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or significant future investments that will enhance the assets performance of the CGU being tested.
The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the DCF model as well as the expected future cash-inflows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes.
These estimates are most relevant to goodwill recognised by the Group.
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the different CGUs are disclosed and further explained in note 18.
In addition, the Group has work in progress in respect of Hospital Information System HIS and ERP amounting to US$1,783,000 2016:US$4,345,000.
This amount is included in capital work in progress in property and equipment and in software in intangible assets note 17 and note 18.
As of 31 December 2017, the Group has recorded impairment of US$3,010,000 2016:US$nil against this.
Valuation of intangibles assets The Group measures its intangible assets acquired in a business combination as follows: Brand Relief from royalty Database and software Replacement cost Patient relationships Multi period excess earning method Non-compete agreements Income approach-with or without method Rental and private contracts Multi period excess earning method Estimating the fair value of the brand requires determination of the most appropriate valuation method.
This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation method including the base revenue, expected life of the intangible assets, selecting an arms length royalty rate, discount rate and making assumptions about them.
Similarly, estimating the replacement cost of the database requires an estimate of the number of cycles that are recorded in the database along with the best estimate of the hours dedicated by the staff such as doctors, nurses, biologists, and other specialist technicians to collect the data, the useful life of the database, discount rate and an estimate of tax saving.
Estimating the fair value of patient relationships and the non-compete agreements requires an estimate of the expected revenue over an appropriate period of time, a churn rate to account for the reduction in the number of patients over the years, discount rate, rate of inflation and the useful life and the risk inherent in ownership of the asset or security interest being valued.
Useful economic lives of property and equipment and depreciation method Depreciation is calculated on all property and equipment other than land and capital work in progress, at the rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life.
Management has re-assessed the useful economic lives of all asset categories with effect from 1 January 2017, following a review of the useful economic lives of the Groups assets and market research conducted on depreciation rates and methods in the industry: Rate applied Rate applied from up to 1 January 31 December 2017 2016 Hospital building 2% 6% 2% 6% Buildings 4.8 % 6% 6% Leasehold improvements 5.88% 20% 5.88% 20% Motor vehicles 20% 20% Furniture, fixtures and fittings 12.5% 20% 12.5% 20% Medical equipment 10% 25% 10% 25% The impact of the re-assessment of useful economic lives and depreciation method is an increase in reported profit of US$784,000 in the current year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES CONTINUED Useful economic lives of intangible assets and amortisation method The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Intangibles assets are amortised on straight line basis over their useful life.
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets: Brands 2-20 years Software 5 years Database 15 years Patient relationships 7 years Non-compete agreement 3-4 years Rental contracts 7 years Private contracts 3 years Management has re-assessed the useful economic lives of all intangible asset categories with effect from 1 January 2017, following a review of the useful economic lives of the Groups intangible assets and market research conducted on amortisation rates and methods in the industry.
Based on the review, useful life of brand relating to Provita and Americare has been revised to 15 years from 10 years and for Fakih brand useful life has been revised to 20 years from 16 years.
The impact of the re-assessment of useful economic lives and amortisation method is an increase in reported profit of US$696,000 in the current year.
Contingent consideration on acquisitions Contingent consideration, resulting from business combinations, is valued at fair value at the acquisition date as part of the business combination.
When the contingent consideration meets the definition of a financial liability, it is subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The change in the fair value at each reporting date is recorded in the consolidated income statement.
The determination of the fair value is based on discounted cash flows.
The key assumptions taken into consideration in determining the fair value are the probability of meeting relevant performance targets, securing certain agreements, completing certain acquisitions and the discount factor note 5.
SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS Business combinations and goodwill Management judgement is applied in determining whether the acquisition represents an acquisition of an asset or a business combination.
This involves assessing whether or not the entities and the assets acquired constitute the carrying on of a business, i. e. whether there are inputs and processes applied to those inputs that have the ability to create outputs.
When a business combination occurs, the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets, are recognised.
The determination of the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
If the purchase consideration exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired, then the difference is recognised as goodwill.
If the purchase price consideration is lower than the fair value of the assets acquired then a gain is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Allocation of the purchase price between finite lived assets and indefinite lived assets such as goodwill affects the results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised.
The key judgements in respect of the contingent consideration recognised as part of a business combination relate to the performance of the business, the discount rates used and the contractual arrangements of ownership.
Valuation of put option The accounting for put options requires significant management judgment and is driven by the specific contract terms.
Put options were issued as part of the Luarmia SL, CFC HCMR and Fecunmed acquisitions.
On the basis of the contract terms and interpretation of relevant accounting standards and guidance, the judgment is that the Group does not have present ownership of the non-controlling interest NCI on account of Luarmia SL, CFC HCMR and Fecunmed as at the date of acquisition.
This judgment leads to the next stage of the accounting decisions required.
The Group has concluded that IFRS 10 takes precedence over IAS 32, and the permitted policy choice is that there should be full recognition of NCI using the proportionate method.
The financial liability that is payable under the put option is measured at fair value at each reporting date.
The key assumptions taken into consideration in determining the fair value are the probability of meeting relevant reproductive cycles, EBITDA and net debt targets note 37.
104 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS CONTINUED Leases for buildings and land Generally our hospitals, day patient medical centres and hospital projects under development are located on land and in buildings which are leased.
As at 31 December 2017, the majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from the leases for New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities, which had leases which are renewable on an annual basis with a total value of US$569,000 2016: US$801,000 included within property, and equipment as at 31 December 2017 note 17.
If any such leases are terminated or expire and are not renewed, the Group could lose the investment, including the hospital buildings and the warehouses on the leased sites which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The directors have considered the following facts in determining the likelihood that these leases will be renewed: Whilst some leases can be for long term durations, it is not unusual and can often be common practice throughout all of the emirates in the United Arab Emirates for landlords to lease land and buildings to companies on annually renewable leases of one year terms and for these Leases to be renewed automatically.
Throughout the Groups over 44 year history it has never had a lease cancelled or not renewed, and the Group enjoys a high degree of respect in the region and believes that it maintains strong relationships with the landlords.
Both the Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities have been occupied by the Group on annually renewable leases, for a period of more than 17 years and each year these leases have been automatically renewed.
The warehouse facilities have been built by the Group on land leased from government bodies in the Emirates of Dubai and Abu Dhabi on the back of the policies of these governments to attract investment in warehousing in the United Arab Emirates.
Lease for NMC Royal Hospital LLC NMC Royal Hospital LLC is constructed from land leased from Municipality of Abu Dhabi.
Remaining period of lease as of 31 December 2017 is 23 years expiring in 2040.
Management has determined the useful life of NMC Royal Hospital LLC building 50 years.
Carrying amount of NMC Royal Hospital LLC building included in property and equipment as of 31 December 2017 is US$130,042,000 2016: US$122,463,000.
Management believe that lease will be renewed for the full useful life of the building.
The directors have considered the facts that throughout the Groups 44 year history it has never had a lease cancelled or not renewed, and the Group enjoys a high degree of respect in the region and believes that it maintains strong relationships with the lessor in determining the likelihood that lease will be renewed.
2.4 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS: The Group applied for the first-time certain amendments to the standards, which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
The Group has not early adopted any standards, interpretations or amendments that have been issued but are not yet effective.
Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: Disclosure Initiative The amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows require entities to provide disclosure of changes in their liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes such as foreign exchange gains or losses.
The Group has provided the information for both the current and the comparative period in Note 40.
The new standards, amendments to IFRS, which are effective as of 1 January 2017 are listed below, have no impact on the Group.
Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrecognised Losses Annual Improvements 2014-2016 Cycle Amendments to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: Clarification of the scope of disclosure requirements in IFRS 12 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being made.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, less discounts and rebates and taking into account contractually defined terms of payment and excluding taxes or duties.
Revenue streams include clinic service revenues, sale of goods Pharmacy, sale of goods Distribution, Healthcare management fees and revenue sharing arrangement with doctors.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED REVENUE RECOGNITION CONTINUED The Group assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent.
The Group determines it is acting as principal when it has exposure to the significant risks and rewards associated with the transaction and measures revenue as the gross amount received or receivable.
When the Group does not retain the significant risks and rewards, it deems that it is acting as n agent and measures revenue as the amount received or receivable in return for its performance under the contract and excludes any amounts collected on behalf of a third party.
Clinic, homecare and long term care service revenues: Clinic, homecare and long term care service revenues represent the revenue which NMC generates from the provision of either inpatient or outpatient medical services, homecare services or long term care services.
The group primarily receives these revenues from patients private medical insurance schemes.
Revenues are recognised when, and to the extent that, performance of a medical service occurs, and is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in these arrangements as it has the responsibility for providing the medical services to the patient, it sets the prices for services which are provided, it bears the credit risk and it bears the risk of providing the medical service.
Gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction: Revenue in respect of the different types of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction services is recognised as follows: Donor IVF and Own IVF sales In Vitro Fecundation : Revenue in respect of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction is mainly from In Vitro Fertilisation IVF treatment.
Revenue from IVF treatment is recognised based on the stage of the treatment.
The treatment is divided into three stages.
Each stage takes about 20 days.
24%-25% of revenue is booked in the first stage at the beginning of the treatment, 50%-65% of revenue is booked in the middle stage at patients egg extraction in the case of the use of the patients own egg or in the case of the use of a donor egg at the fertilisation date and 11%-25% of revenue is booked at the final stage embryo implantation.
These percentages are based on an internal study of the costs incurred in the different streams performed in prior years.
Cryo transfer sales: Total cost of the treatment is split in two phases in terms of revenue recognition.
25% is recorded when the doctor agrees with the patient to initialise the treatment and 75% at the embryo implantation.
The time between both phases is about 2-3 weeks.
Intrauterine insemination: Revenue is recognised in full at the insemination date.
Sale of Goods Pharmacy: The sales of goods from pharmacy relates to the sale of pharmaceutical and other products from hospitals and pharmacies.
Whilst the Group does not establish the prices for the pharmaceutical products sold as both the purchase and selling prices for all pharmaceutical products are fixed by the Ministry of Health, UAE.
NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in respect of these sales as it provides the goods for sale, it bears the inventory risk, and it bears the credit risk from customers.
Revenue from the sale of goods Pharmacy is therefore recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer.
Significant risk for retail goods is passed to the buyer at the point of sale.
Sale of Goods Distribution: Where the Group bears the inventory risk and the customer credit risk and has the ability to set the prices for the products sold then the Group has determined that it is acting as Principal.
Revenue from the sale of goods is therefore recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer.
Significant risk for retail goods is passed to the buyer for wholesale goods at the time of delivery.
For agency relationships, the revenue earned is measured as the Groups share of the revenue, as specified in the contract.
Any amounts collected on behalf of the third party are excluded from revenue and are recorded as a payable.
There are currently no material agency relationships.
Healthcare Management fees: Management fees represent fees earned for managing a hospital.
Management fees are recognised when the services under the contract are performed, and the service level criteria have been met, and are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, in line with the terms of the management contract.
Revenue sharing arrangements with doctors: The Group enters into contracts with doctors whereby these doctors are employed to perform certain procedures or run outpatient services using the facilities.
In return the doctors obtain a share of the revenues that are generated from these facilities.
Each contractual arrangement with individual doctors is assessed against specific criteria to determine whether the Group is acting as principal or agent in the arrangement with these doctors.
106 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED OTHER INCOME Other income comprises revenue from suppliers for the reimbursement of advertising and promotion costs incurred by the Group.
Revenue is recognised following formal acceptance of the Groups reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
INTEREST INCOME For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest income or expense is recorded using the effective interest rate EIR, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability.
Interest income is included in finance income in the consolidated income statement.
REBATES FROM SUPPLIERS The Distribution business receives rebates in the ordinary course of business from a number of its suppliers of pharmaceutical products, in accordance with contractual arrangements in place with specific suppliers.
Rebates are accounted for once approval has been received from the supplier following the negotiations which have taken place with them.
Rebates receivable are accounted for as a deduction from the cost of purchasing pharmaceutical goods, once the rebate has been approved by the supplier on the basis under IAS 18 that the probability of inflow is not sufficiently certain and the amounts cannot be reliably measured until that point.
When rebates have been agreed in advance, for example when it has been agreed that a certain rebate will be applied to the purchase of specific goods for a set period of time rather than just to a specific one off purchase, then the rebate is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price as soon as the goods are purchased.
When rebates are offered based upon the volume purchased and it is probable that the rebate will be earned and the amount can be estimated reliably, then the discount is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price when the goods are purchased and the assessment is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Rebates receivable are accounted for on a net basis, being set off against the trade payables to which they relate, as they are a reduction in the amount we owe to our suppliers in respect of pharmaceutical products purchased.
CURRENT INCOME TAX Current income tax assets and liabilities arising from overseas operations for the current period are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities in the respective overseas jurisdictions.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the consolidated income statement.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: When the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, when the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any unused tax losses.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: When the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss.
Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Tax benefits acquired as part of a business combination, but not satisfying the criteria for separate recognition at that date, are recognised subsequently if new information about facts and circumstances change.
The adjustment is either treated as a reduction in goodwill as long as it does not exceed goodwill if it was incurred during the measurement period or recognised in profit or loss.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, is measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date.
If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
RESTRUCTURING RESERVE The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interest method used for the group restructuring which took place on 1 April 2012.
This represents the difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC, the previous parent company of the Group, and the carrying amount of the investment in that company at the date of the restructure.
DEFERRED CONSIDERATION Deferred consideration arises when settlement of all or any part of the cost of a business combination is deferred.
It is stated at fair value at the date of acquisition, which is determined by discounting the amount due to present value at that date.
Interest is imputed on the fair value of non-interest bearing deferred consideration at the discount rate and expensed within finance costs.
At each balance sheet date deferred consideration comprises the remaining deferred consideration valued at acquisition plus unwinding of interest imputed on such amounts from acquisition to the balance sheet date.
108 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on all property and equipment other than land and capital work in progress, at the following rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life: Hospital building 2%-6% Buildings 4.8%-6% Leasehold improvements 5.88%-20% Motor vehicles 20% Furniture, fixtures and fittings 12.5%-20% Medical equipment 10%-25% The carrying amounts of property and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount, being the higher of their fair value less cost to sell and their value in use.
Capital work in progress is stated at cost and is not depreciated.
Lease costs in respect of capital work in progress are capitalised within capital work in progress during the period up until it is commissioned.
When commissioned, capital work in progress is transferred to the appropriate property and equipment asset category and depreciated in accordance with the Groups policies.
The carrying amounts of capital work in progress are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised and the carrying amount of the component that is replaced is written off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases future economic benefits of the related item of property and equipment.
All other expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as the expense is incurred.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
The following useful lives have been determined for acquired intangible assets: Brands 2-20 years Software 5 years Database 15 years Patient relationships 7 years Non-compete agreement 3-4 years Rental contracts 7 years Private contracts 3 years Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the expense category that is consistent with the function of the intangible assets.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the consolidated income statement when the asset is derecognised.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset until the asset is commissioned for use.
Borrowing costs in respect of completed assets or not attributable to assets are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
PRE-OPERATING EXPENSES Pre-operating expenses are the expenses incurred prior to start of operations of a new business unit.
These are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which they occur.
INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
Costs are those expenses incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition and are determined on a weighted average basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Accounts receivable are stated at original invoice amount less a provision for any uncollectible amounts.
Accounts receivable with no stated interest rates are measured at invoiced amounts when the effect of discounting is immaterial.
An estimate of doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when there is no possibility of recovery.
LOANS RECEIVABLES Loans receivables are initially recognised at fair value.
After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using effective interest rate EIR method, less impairment.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the statement of profit or loss.
The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, bank balances and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
EQUITY The Group has issued ordinary shares that are classified as equity.
The difference between the issue price and the par value of ordinary share capital is allocated to share premium.
The transaction costs incurred for the share issue are accounted for as a deduction from share premium, net of any related income tax benefit, to the extent they are incremental costs directly attributable to the share issue that would otherwise have been avoided.
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUALS Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods and services received whether billed by the supplier or not.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation legal or constructive arising from a past event, and the costs to settle the obligation are both probable and able to be reliably measured.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the obligation.
Increases in provisions due to the passage of time are recognised in the consolidated income statement within Finance costs.
PUT OPTION-NON CONTROLLING INTEREST In circumstances where the Group has determined that they do not have the present ownership interest in the shares subject to a put option, the Group has concluded that IFRS 10 takes precedence over IAS 32 and accordingly a non-controlling interest NCI is fully recognised at the date of acquisition, The Group recognises the full NCI using the proportionate share of net assets method.
The financial liability that may become payable under a put option in respect of the NCI is recognised at fair value within liabilities, with the liability being treated as an immediate reduction to equity attributable to the parent option redemption reserve.
The financial liability is subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date and the change in the fair value at each reporting date is recorded in the consolidated income statement.
110 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED TERM LOANS Term loans are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, term loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest on term loans is charged as an expense as it accrues, with unpaid amounts included in accounts payable and accruals.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Costs to sell are the incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset disposal group, excluding finance costs and income tax expense.
The criteria for held for sale classification is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Actions required to complete the sale should indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the sale will be made or that the decision to sale will be withdrawn.
Management must be committed to the plan to sell the asset and the sale expected to be completed within one year from the date of the classification.
Property and equipment and intangible assets are not depreciated or amortised once classified as held for sale.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are presented separately as current items in the statement of financial position.
EMPLOYEES END OF SERVICE BENEFITS The Group operates an un-funded post-employment benefit plan employees end of service benefits for its expatriate employees in the UAE, in accordance with the labour laws of the UAE.
The entitlement to these benefits is based upon the employees final salary and length of service, subject to the completion of a minimum service period.
Payment for employees end of service benefits is made when an employee leaves, resigns or completes his service.
The cost of providing benefits under the post-employment benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit method.
Re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, are recognised immediately in the statement of financial position with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Re-measurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
Interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the defined benefit liability.
The rate used to discount the end of service benefit obligation is determined by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
The current and non-current portions of the provision relating to employees end of service benefits are separately disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group recognises the following changes in the employees end of service benefits under direct costs and general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Service costs comprising current service costs Interest expense With respect to its UAE national employees, the Group makes contributions to the relevant UAE Government pension scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees salaries.
The obligations under these schemes are limited to these contributions, which are expensed when due.
SHARE BASED PAYMENTS Equity-settled share-based payments to employees including executive directors are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in note 32.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves other payables.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting are conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share see note 16.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in UAE Dirhams at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement.
TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN OPERATIONS On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into US Dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date and their income statements are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions.
All resulting currency translation differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
The Groups principal geographical segment is the United Arab Emirates.
The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar so a single rate of 3.673 per US Dollar is used to translate those assets and liabilities and balances in the consolidated income statement.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the consolidated income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward exchange contracts, put options and contingent consideration.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives with positive market values unrealised gains are recognised as assets and derivatives with negative market values unrealised losses are recognised as liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year are taken directly to profit or loss.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability, or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable 112 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT CONTINUED For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS An assessment is made at each consolidated statement of financial position date to determine whether there is objective evidence that a specific financial asset may be impaired.
If such evidence exists, any impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Impairment is determined as the difference between carrying value and the present value of future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
LEASES The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
Operating leases are recognised as an operating expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis.
Lease incentives are recorded as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term, on a straight-line basis.
JOINT VENTURE A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted investees and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
4 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are listed below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS Nature of change The IASB has issued a new standard for the recognition of revenue.
This will replace IAS 18 which covers contracts for goods and services and IAS 11 which covers construction contracts.
The new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer.
The standard permits either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach for the adoption.
Impact Management has completed a detailed assessment to estimate the potential impact of adopting the requirements of IFRS 15 by reviewing all its material revenue streams.
The adoption of the new revenue accounting standard is not likely to have a material impact on the Groups revenue or profitability.
However, there will be some changes which will be required to comply with the new disclosure requirements of the new standard.
As the adoption of the new standard is not likely have a material impact on the Group, management will adopt the requirements of the new standard using the modified retrospective approach.
Mandatory application date Date of adoption by Group IFRS 15 must be applied for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group does not intend to adopt the standard before its effective date.
IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Nature of change IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 4 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE CONTINUED IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Impact The Group has undertaken a detailed assessment of the classification and measurement of financial assets.
Majority of the financial assets held by the Group are currently measured at amortised cost and these financial assets appear to meet the conditions for classification at amortised cost under IFRS 9.
Accordingly, the Group does not expect the new guidance to have a significant impact on the classification and measurement of its financial assets.
There will be no significant impact on the Groups accounting for financial liabilities, as the new requirements only affect the accounting for financial liabilities that are designated at fair value through profit or loss and, other than forward foreign exchange rate contracts designated at fair value through profit or loss which are insignificant, the Group does not have any such liabilities.
The derecognition rules have been transferred from IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and have not been changed.
The new hedge accounting rules will align the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with the Groups risk management practices.
As a general rule, more hedge relationships might be eligible for hedge accounting, as the standard introduces a more principles-based approach.
The Group does not currently have any material hedging relationships.
Accordingly, the Group does not expect a significant impact on the accounting for its hedging relationships.
The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses ECL rather than only incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39.
It applies to financial assets classified at amortised cost, debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI, contract assets under IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, lease receivables, loan commitments and certain financial guarantee contracts.
Though the adoption of the requirements of the new standard may result in an earlier recognition of credit losses the impact of this is not likely to be material.
The Group intend adopt the simplified approach to estimating its expected credit losses with respect to trade receivables as these are non-interest bearing.
The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in presentation.
These are expected to change the nature and extent of the disclosures about its financial instruments particularly in the year of the adoption of the new standard.
Mandatory application date Date of adoption by Group IFRS 9 must be applied for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
Based on the transitional provisions in the completed IFRS 9, early adoption in phases was only permitted for annual reporting periods beginning before 1 February 2015.
After that date, the new rules must be adopted in their entirety.
The Group does not intend to adopt IFRS 9 before its mandatory date.
IFRS 16 LEASES IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016, and specifies how the Group will recognise, measure, present and disclose leases.
The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with IFRS 16s approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17.
IFRS 16 applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
In addition, the standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements that are not expected to have any material impact on the Group are as follows: Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts Transfer to Investment Property Amendments to IAS 40 IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2 Annual Improvements 2014-2016 Cycle issued in December 2016 IFRS 1First time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Deletion of short-term exemptions for firsttime adopters IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint  that measuring the investees at fair value through profit or loss is an  choice Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Amendments to IFRS4 IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment 114 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS During the financial year ended 31 December 2017, the Group completed a number of acquisitions in line with its growth strategy.
These acquisitions have increased groups market share in the healthcare industry and complement the groups existing healthcare portfolio.
From current year, smaller acquisitions have been clubbed together as Others.
Comparatives have been adjusted accordingly.
The fair value assessment of identifiable net assets is completed as final for Al Zahra, Atlas healthcare and As Salama hospital.
For other acquisitions it is provisional.
The non-controlling interest in all acquired entities is measured at the proportionate share of net assets of subsidiaries.
Analysis of cash flows on acquisitions is as follows: Al Zahra Others Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 Cash paid 562,851 73,739 636,590 Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 6,095 2,438 8,533 Transaction costs 4,458 205 4,663 Net cash flow on acquisition 561,214 71,506 632,720 The transaction costs reported in the consolidated income statement comprise of the following: 2017 2016 US$ 000 US$ 000 Transaction costs for the acquired entities 4,663 1,259 Transaction costs for acquisitions in progress 1,306 3,344 5,969 4,603 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 115 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED Other financial information with respect to acquired entities is as follows: Al Zahra Others Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue from the date of acquisition 116,343 44,631 160,974 Profit after tax from the date of acquisition 30,226 1,538 31,764 Revenue from 1 January to 31 December 2017 unaudited 126,359 48,605 174,964 Profit loss after tax from 1 January to 31 December 2017 unaudited 32,014 6,501 25,513 Trade receivables gross value as of acquisition date 44,143 15,163 59,306 Trade receivables fair value as of acquisition date 44,143 15,163 59,306 ACQUISITION OF AL ZAHRA HOSPITAL AL ZAHRA On 14 December 2016, the Group agreed to acquire a 100% controlling stake in the voting shares of Al Zahra, UAE providing both in-patient and outpatient service to the highest standards, supported by state of art facilities.
Al Zahra is one of the largest full service multi-specialty hospitals in the UAE in Sharjah and Northern Emirates.
The hospital has 137 active in patients beds and a capacity of 154 beds expandable to at least 200 beds, treating approximately 400,000 outpatients and 23,000 in patients bed days per year.
It has strong relationships with a number of major insurance providers in Sharjah with approximately 85% of outpatients referred through the insurance channel.
The total purchase consideration was US$562,851,000.
There were no deferred and contingent consideration payable.
NMC acquired control of Al Zahra on 13 February 2017, date on which all conditions precedent were completed, meaning that control has passed to the Group.
For convenience, the closest available balance sheet date has been used for the purposes of measuring net assets acquired.
This date is 31 January 2017, with full consolidation commencing on 1 February 2017.
We are not aware of any material transactions in the period between 01 February 2017 and 13 February 2017.
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Al Zahra for 11 months period.
The goodwill recognised is attributable to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Al Zahra with those of the Group.
It comprises all of the intangibles that cannot be individually recognised such as the assembled workforce, the customer service, future client relationships, the presence in geographic markets, the synergies that Al Zahra & NMC will obtain.
Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment.
None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes as there is no corporation tax in the UAE.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable tangible assets included Building of US$86,500,000, land of US$13,500,000 and intangible assets included brands amounting to US$545,000 and software amounting to US$459,000.
No acquisition date contingent liabilities requiring full recognition have been noted as yet.
OTHER ACQUISITIONS In the Sultanate of Oman, the Group acquired a general hospital and a private clinic The Group agreed to acquire the Healthcare Business and assets of Atlas Healthcare on 05 December 2016.
Atlas Healthcare is one of the leading providers of comprehensive healthcare services in Al Ruwi and Al Ghoubra a suburb of Muscat, the capital city of the Sultanate of Oman.
Regulatory approvals and legal formalities Completed on 02 January 2017, meaning that control has passed to the Group.
For convenience, the closest available balance sheet date i. e. 01 January 2017 has been used for the purposes of measuring net assets acquired.
The total purchase consideration was US$28,259,000.
The Group also agreed to acquire the Healthcare Business and assets of Bin Said, a private clinic on 04 October 2016 in Muscat.
Regulatory approvals and legal formalities Completed on 01 January 2017, meaning that control has passed to the Group.
The total purchase consideration of US$885,000 includes consideration paid of US$19,000 and consideration paid advance of US$797,000 in 2016.
In the kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Group acquired a general hospital In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Group agreed to acquire a 70% controlling stake in the voting shares of As Salama Hospital LLC ASH on 28 August 2016, an unlisted private general hospital which exists to serve the healthcare needs of all people in Al-Khobar by providing acute and long-term care.
ASH is the fifth largest hospital in the Eastern province of Saudi Arabia and account for 10% of market share.
Regulatory approvals and legal formalities were completed on 02 January 2017, meaning that control has passed to the Group.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included brands amounting to US$5,000,000 and Private contracts of US$7,400,000.
The total purchase consideration of US$29,195,000 includes consideration paid of US$26,395,000 and deferred consideration payable of US$2,800,000 in 2018.
This is due in 2018 and is included in other payables in the consolidated statement of financial position Note 30.
116 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED OTHER ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED The Group agreed to acquire 60% controlling stake in the Al Qadi hospital located in the southern Saudi Arabia city of Najran houses 100 beds with adjacent land for future growth on 25 September 2017.
Regulatory approvals and legal formalities Completed on 15 December 2017, meaning that control has passed to the Group.
For convenience, the closest available balance sheet date i. e. 31 December 2017 has been used for the purposes of measuring net assets acquired.
The hospital-initiated outpatient operations in late 2016 and commenced inpatient services in Q1 2017.
The facility boasts state of the art clinical equipment and is well positioned to provide tertiary care services to this area of Saudi Arabia.
At the date of acquisition, the fair value of identifiable intangible assets included Private contracts amounting to US$3,774,000.
The total purchase consideration was US$16,432,000.
In Spain, the Group acquired an IVF clinic The Group agreed to acquire 80% controlling stake in Fecunmed IVF clinic located in Spain on 15 December 2017, meaning that control has passed to the Group.
Fecunmed is a private clinic specialised in the diagnosis and treatment of sterility and infertility based in Spain.
The total purchase consideration of US$2,521,000 includes consideration paid of US$1,817,000 and contingent consideration payable of US$704,000 on attainment of revenue targets in 2018.
This is due in 2018 and is included in other payables in the consolidated statement of financial position Note 36.
The Group acquired 100% controlling stake in Hamad Drug Store LLC HDS located in Sharjah Emirate of United Arab Emirates on 31 August 2017, meaning that control has passed to the Group.
The total purchase consideration was US$817,000.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of entities acquired in previous year at the dates of acquisition were as follows: Fakih IVF Others Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 Assets Intangible assets 25,324 150 25,474 Property and equipment 4,309 3,176 7,485 Inventories 613 356 969 Accounts receivable 8,579 4,685 13,264 Other receivables 41,436 910 42,346 Deferred tax asset 48 48 Cash and bank balances 3,395 1,478 4,873 83,656 10,803 94,459 Liabilities Borrowings 855 855 Accounts payable 4,788 3,844 8,632 Other payable 43,001 903 43,904 Tax payable 249 249 47,789 5,851 53,640 Total identified net assets at fair value 35,867 4,952 40,819 Noncontrolling interest 17,575 949 18,524 Goodwill arising on acquisition 186,616 47,290 233,906 Purchase consideration 204,908 51,293 256,201 Purchase consideration: Payable in cash 190,446 45,443 235,889 Contingent consideration 8,128 1,514 9,642 Deferred consideration 7,051 4,336 11,387 Fair value measurement 717 717 Total consideration 204,908 51,293 256,201 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 117 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED UNDER OTHERS ACQUISITIONS: Purchase price allocation for Copenhagen Fertility Centre CFC and Huntington Centro fide Medina Reproductiva S A HCMR were provisional as of 31 December 2016 and have been completed during the year.
Purchase price allocation of CFC remain same, however updated for HCMR.
HCMR Brand amounting to US$3,824,000 and private contracts amounting to US$1,818,000 have been recognised.
Corresponding credit has been recognised in goodwill of US$2,376,000 deferred tax liability of US$1,359,000, NCI of US$1,631,000 and exchange gain of US$276,000.
CFC goodwill amounting to US$1,683,000 has been recognised and correspondingly credit to equity.
Analysis of cash flows for acquisitions done in previous year disclosed in 2016 consolidated financial statements was as follows: Fakih IVF Others Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 Cash paid 190,446 45,443 235,889 Deferred consideration paid 3,410 1,902 5,312 Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 3,395 1,478 4,873 Transaction costs 1,259 1,259 Net cash flow on acquisition 190,461 47,126 237,587 During the year deferred consideration amounting to US$4,356,000 in respect of Fakih IVF and Nadia has been paid.
Other financial information with respect to entities acquired in previous year disclosed in 2016 consolidated financial statements was as follows: Fakih IVF Others Total Particulars US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue from the date of acquisition 65,171 19,881 85,052 Profit after tax from the date of acquisition 35,293 5,039 40,332 Revenue from 1 January to 31 December 2016 unaudited 70,600 32,817 103,417 Profit after tax from 1 January to 31 December 2016 unaudited 38,101 5,837 43,938 Trade receivables gross value as of acquisition date 8,579 4,929 13,508 Trade receivables fair value as of acquisition date 8,579 4,685 13,264 ADVANCES PAID FOR ACQUISITIONS As of the reporting date, certain acquisitions are in progress for which the Group has paid an advance of US$nil 2016: US$1,614,000.
6 MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDARIES The financial information in respect of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: PROPORTION OF EQUITY INTEREST HELD BY NMC: Percentage of holdings Country of 31 December 31 December Incorporation 2017 2016 Indirect subsidiaries: Luarmia SL Spain 88.4% 88.4% Fakih UAE 51% 51% Shareholding disclosed is for Luarmia SL only.
Within Luarmia SL there are certain other subsidiaries.
The financial information provided below is for Luarmia SL and its subsidiaries.
ACCUMULATED BALANCES OF MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Luarmia SL 11,113 5,836 Fakih IVF LLC 33,902 34,160 118 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 6 MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDARIES CONTINUED PROFIT ALLOCATED TO MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Luarmia SL 4,180 1,251 Fakih IVF LLC 19,580 16,586 The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries is provided below.
This information is stated before inter-company eliminations.
Luarmia Fakih Summarised statement of profit or loss for 2017: US$000 US$000 Revenue 84,414 74,146 Direct cost 37,870 21,154 Administrative and other expenses 25,278 10,366 Depreciation and amortisation 7,272 2,666 Profit before tax 13,994 39,960 Income tax 918 Profit for the year 13,076 39,960 Other comprehensive Income 15,325 Total comprehensive income 28,401 39,960 Attributable to non-controlling interests 4,180 19,580 Luarmia Fakih Summarised statement of profit or loss for 2016: US$000 US$000 Revenue 66,078 65,171 Direct cost 23,597 19,469 Administrative and other expenses 26,812 8,831 Depreciation and amortisation 6,000 3,022 Profit before tax 9,669 33,849 Income tax 174 Profit for the year 9,495 33,849 Other comprehensive loss 3,955 Total comprehensive income 5,540 33,849 Attributable to non-controlling interests 1,251 16,586 Luarmia Fakih Summarised statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017 US$000 US$000 Inventories and cash and bank balance current 20,370 10,459 Account receivable and prepayment current 14,564 37,848 Property and equipment and other non-current assets non-current 145,189 70,868 Accounts payable and accruals current 14,583 11,075 Interest-bearing loans current 17,263 Interest-bearing loans and deferred tax liabilities noncurrent 36,538 Other payable non-current 20,913 38,911 Total Equity 90,826 69,189 Attributable to: Equity holders of parent 79,713 35,287 Non-controlling interest 11,113 33,902 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 119 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 6 MATERIAL PARTLY-OWNED SUBSIDARIES CONTINUED PROFIT ALLOCATED TO MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST CONTINUED Luarmia Fakih Summarised statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016 US$000 US$000 Inventories and cash and bank balance current 17,449 13,861 Account receivable and prepayment current 8,934 31,615 Property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets non-current 135,570 68,454 Accounts payable and accruals current 17,682 5,113 Interest-bearing loans current 10,704 Interest-bearing loans and deferred tax liabilities non-current 36,592 Other payable noncurrent 20,450 39,102 Total Equity 76,525 69,715 Attributable to: Equity holders of parent 70,689 35,555 Non-controlling interest 5,836 34,160 Luarmia Fakih Summarised cash flow information for year ended 31 December 2017 US$000 US$000 Operating 13,631 35,084 Investing 4,739 5,079 Financing 10,408 33,365 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 1,516 3,360 Luarmia Fakih Summarised cash flow information for year ended 31 December 2016 US$000 US$000 Operating 15,593 15,003 Investing 26,607 4,914 Financing 10,398 - Net decrease Increase in cash and cash equivalents 616 10,089 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has two reportable segments as follows: The healthcare segment is engaged in providing professional medical services, comprising diagnostic services, in and outpatient clinics, provision of all types of research and medical services in the field of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction and retailing of pharmaceutical goods.
It also includes the provision of management services in respect of a hospital.
The distribution & services segment is engaged in wholesale trading of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics and food.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments.
The new acquired companies, Al Zahra, As Salama, Al Qadi, Atlas, Bin Said and Fecunmed come under the healthcare segment.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on EBITDA and profit or loss.
These are measured consistently with EBITDA and profit or loss excluding finance income and group administrative expenses, unallocated depreciation and unallocated other income, in the consolidated financial statements.
Finance costs and finance income relating to UAE subsidiaries are not allocated to individual segments as they are managed on a group basis.
In addition Group overheads are also not allocated to individual segments as these are managed on a Group basis.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present revenue and profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups business segments for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016.
120 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
All other adjustments and eliminations are part of detailed reconciliations presented further below.
ADJUSTMENTS AND ELIMINATIONS Finance income and group overheads are not allocated to individual segments as they are managed on a group basis.
Term loans, bank overdraft and other short term borrowings and certain other assets and liabilities are not allocated to segments as they are also managed on a group basis.
Capital expenditure consists of additions to property and equipment and intangible assets.
RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT EBITDA TO GROUP PROFIT 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Segment EBITDA 406,950 288,228 Unallocated group administrative expenses 54,400 42,202 Unallocated other income 837 55 Unallocated finance income 7,487 9,157 Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off 6,794 - Finance costs 63,792 41,684 Depreciation 58,107 45,010 Amortisation 12,776 10,989 Impairment of assets 3,010 1,376 Transaction costs related to business combination 5,969 4,603 Tax 1,245 174 Group Profit 209,181 151,402 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 121 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT PROFIT TO GROUP PROFIT 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Segment profit 335,843 236,497 Unallocated finance income 2,036 6,699 Unallocated finance costs 55,093 35,841 Unallocated group administrative expenses 54,400 42,202 Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off 6,794 Unallocated depreciation 1,090 1,034 Unallocated other income 837 55 Unallocated amortisation cost 8,123 8,398 Unallocated impairment of assets 3,010 1,030 Unallocated transaction cost 1,025 3,344 Group Profit 209,181 151,402 RECONCILIATION OF GROUP ASSETS 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Segment assets 2,567,004 1,719,961 Unallocated property and equipment 7,995 10,710 Unallocated inventory 215 22 Unallocated accounts receivable and prepayments 16,553 8,656 Unallocated bank balances and cash 161,028 436,949 Unallocated bank deposits 184,430 137,869 Unallocated intangible assets 1,783 2,826 Group assets 2,939,008 2,316,993 RECONCILIATION OF GROUP LIABILITIES 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Segment liabilities 440,961 329,018 Unallocated term loans 1,105,524 782,624 Unallocated employees end of service benefits 4,706 2,608 Unallocated accounts payable and accruals 9,109 8,281 Unallocated bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 207,034 219,851 Unallocated amounts due to related parties 1,029 488 Unallocated option redemption liability 26,019 25,252 Group liabilities 1,794,382 1,368,122 OTHER INFORMATION The following table provides information relating to Groups major customers who contribute more than 10% towards the Groups revenues: Distribution and Healthcare services Total US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2017 Customer 1 442,070 442,070 442,070 442,070 Year ended 31 December 2016 Customer 1 324,285 324,285 324,285 324,285 122 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 7 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Revenue from external customers United Arab Emirates 1,474,344 1,154,757 Spain 46,684 55,361 Others 82,368 10,717 Total revenue as per consolidated income statement 1,603,396 1,220,835 Non-current assets United Arab Emirates 1,528,083 974,522 Spain 201,456 193,706 Others 80,965 858 Total non-current assets 1,810,504 1,169,086 Deferred tax assets United Arab Emirates Spain 2,877 2,122 Others 2016 541 13 Total Deferred tax assets 3,418 2,135 ANALYSIS OF REVENUE BY CATEGORY 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Revenue from services: Healthcare clinic 999,678 720,051 Healthcare management fees 13,016 10,135 1,012,694 730,186 Sale of goods: Distribution 457,153 404,521 Healthcare 133,549 86,128 590,702 490,649 Total 1,603,396 1,220,835 8 EXPENSES BY NATURE 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 571,953 457,276 Salary expenses 499,768 371,075 Rent expenses 76,168 65,549 Sales promotion expenses 61,349 50,695 Repair and maintenance expenses 19,840 13,408 Electricity expenses 10,246 6,652 Legal & licence fees 9,355 8,134 Insurance expenses 9,087 8,338 Motor vehicle expenses 5,093 3,773 Professional fees expenses 4,931 1,585 Communication expenses 4,147 3,724 Printing and stationery 3,514 3,169 IT expenses 2,472 1,656 Others 25,289 26,186 1,303,212 1,021,220 Allocated to : Direct costs 968,044 753,325 General and administrative expenses 335,168 267,895 1,303,212 1,021,220 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 123 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 8 EXPENSES BY NATURE CONTINUED The classifications of the remaining expenses by nature recognised in the consolidated income statement are: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Transaction costs in respect of business combinations 5,969 4,603 Depreciation 58,107 45,010 Amortisation 12,776 10,989 Finance costs 63,792 41,684 Impairment of assets 3,010 1,376 Unamortised finance fees written off 6,794 150,448 103,662 9 OTHER INCOME Other income includes US$47,106,000 2016:US$43,644,000 relating to reimbursement of advertisement and promotional expenses incurred by the Group.
Revenue is recognised following the formal acceptance of the Groups reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
10 FINANCE COSTS 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Bank interest 53,142 31,648 Bank charges 3,866 3,594 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 4,772 4,282 Amortisation and Re-measurement of option redemption liability note 37 2,012 2,160 63,792 41,684 11 FINANCE INCOME 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Bank and other interest income 2,067 1,418 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 5,420 7,739 7,487 9,157 12 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR BEFORE TAX The profit for the year before tax is stated after charging: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 571,953 457,276 Cost of inventories written off and provided note 20 2,346 1,869 Minimum lease payments recognised as operating lease expense 76,168 65,549 Depreciation note 17 58,107 45,010 Amortisation note 18 12,776 10,989 Net Impairment of accounts receivable note 21 7,956 2,957 Employees end of service benefits note 28 11,106 7,246 Net foreign exchange gain loss 550 490 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 190 31 Share based payments expense note 32 9,181 2,640 124 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 13 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor and its associates in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group.
2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1,008 984 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 902 727 audit related assurance services 258 198 other assurance services 11 Tax compliances services Tax advisory services non audit services 891 1,960 3,059 3,880 The fees paid to the auditor includes US$100,000 2016: US$61,000 in respect of out of pocket expenses.
There were no benefits in kind provided to the auditor or its associates in either 2017 or 2016.
Non-audit services in 2016 relate to a Class 1 transaction significant acquisition combined with an equity placement and are non-recurring in nature.
This includes Reporting Accountants Report on the Historical financial information of the acquired company as well as working capital and Pro-forma financial information report, issuing of Comfort and Consent Letters and the Bring down Public Report.
14 STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS A STAFF COSTS 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 445,181 340,910 Employees end of service benefits note 28 11,106 7,246 Share based payments expense note 32 9,181 2,640 Staff medical expense 8,865 2,120 Staff recruitment expense 6,975 4,367 Others 18,460 13,792 499,768 371,075 Staff costs include amounts paid to directors, disclosed in part b below.
The average number of monthly employees during the year was made up as follows: 2017 2016 Healthcare 11,215 8,443 Distribution & services 2,170 2,089 Administration 287 289 13,672 10,821 B DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Directors remuneration 11,546 7,166 Some of the executive directors are entitled to end of service benefits and to participate in share option plans as disclosed in note 32.
Further information in respect of this compensation paid to directors is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 125 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 15 TAX The Group operates in the United Arab Emirates and Spain and certain other countries.
As there is no corporation tax in the United Arab Emirates, no taxes are recognised or payable on the operations in the UAE.
There is no taxable income in the UK accordingly there is no tax liability arising in the UK.
With respect to Group operations in Europe and South America the tax disclosures are as follows: 2017 2016 Consolidated income statement US$000 US$000 Current income tax: Charge for the year 3,606 2,305 Adjustment in respect of charge for the year 5 3,606 2,300 Deferred tax: Charge on profit origination and reversal of temporary differences in the current year 2,361 2,126 Income tax charge reported in the income statement 1,245 174 Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by the Spanish domestic tax rate of 25% 2016: 25% is represented below: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Group accounting profit before tax from continuing operations for the year 210,426 151,575 Less: Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations not subject to tax 192,659 139,594 Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations subject to tax 17,767 11,981 Tax at the rate of 24.9% 2016: 25% 4,416 2,995 Non-taxable dividend income 1,880 1,774 Tax saved on amortisation of intangibles 591 1,198 Adjustment in respect of prior period income tax 5 Different tax rates on overseas earnings 87 233 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes and other permanent differences 72 Deductible expenses for tax purpose: R&D and IT 543 382 Other deductible expenses 70 233 Income tax charged reported in the income statement 1,245 174 The effective tax rate of the Group is 0.59% 2016: 0.11%.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES COMPRISE OF: Deferred tax assets: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Tax credit for R&D expenses 1,226 1,126 Limit on tax deductibility of depreciation and amortisation 2,192 1,009 Total deferred tax assets 3,418 2,135 Deferred tax liabilities: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Depreciation and amortisation 9,693 8,245 Total deferred tax liabilities 9,693 8,245 126 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 15 TAX CONTINUED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES COMPRISE OF: CONTINUED 2017 2016 Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities, net US$000 US$000 As of 1 January 6,110 8,445 Tax credit for the year 2,361 2,127 Adjustment to prior year business combination note 5 1,359 Foreign exchange adjustments 1,167 208 As at 31 December 6,275 6,110 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable as supported by forecasts that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
16 EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2017 2016 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent US$000 185,970 132,689 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 000 for basic EPS 204,302 186,627 Effect of dilution from share based payments 000 1,538 922 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 000 for diluted EPS 205,840 187,549 Basic earnings per share US$ 0.910 0.711 Diluted earnings per share US$ 0.903 0.707 The table below reflects the income and share data used in the adjusted earnings per share computations.
All one off expenses, transaction costs in respect of business combination, and amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax and impairment of assets, have been adjusted from the profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent to arrive at the adjusted earnings per share: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 185,970 132,689 Unamortised finance fees written off 6,794 Transaction costs in respect of business combination 5,969 4,603 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax 11,606 7,819 Impairment of assets 3,010 1,376 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 213,349 146,487 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 000 205,840 187,549 Diluted adjusted earnings per share US$ 1.036 0.781 Adjusted profit for the year of the Group is calculated as follows: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Profit for the year 209,181 151,402 Unamortised finance fees written off 6,794 Transaction costs in respect of business combination 5,969 4,603 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax 11,606 7,819 Impairment of assets 3,010 1,376 Adjusted profit 236,560 165,200 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 127 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 17 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment consists of the following: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Property and equipment 607,092 459,338 607,092 459,338 Furniture, fixtures Leasehold fittings and Freehold Hospital improveMotor medical Capital work land building Buildings ments vehicles equipment in progress Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2017 Cost: At 1 January 2017 19,206 137,321 26,991 172,612 11,108 246,113 22,981 636,332 Additions 224 180 4,122 3,110 24,420 31,392 63,448 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 13,746 88,337 3,157 85 36,491 1,166 142,982 Transfer from CWIP 9,946 4,893 4,303 19,142 Impairments 1,010 1,010 Exchange difference 60 1,401 57 1,398 Disposals 108 545 710 57 1,420 At 31 December 2017 32,952 235,768 27,171 184,676 13,758 312,018 35,387 841,730 Depreciation: At 1 January 2017 10,511 8,793 44,093 6,755 106,842 176,994 Charge for the year 5,110 1,076 18,811 1,581 31,529 58,107 Exchange difference 8 687 679 Disposals 45 511 586 1,142 At 31 December 2017 15,613 9,869 62,859 7,825 138,472 234,638 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2017 32,952 220,155 17,302 121,817 5,933 173,546 35,387 607,092 Furniture, fixtures Leasehold fittings and Freehold Hospital improveMotor medical Capital work land building Buildings ments vehicles equipment in progress Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2016 Cost: At 1 January 2016 19,206 12,343 26,300 157,888 9,322 180,342 161,744 567,145 Additions 970 4,072 1,751 21,190 38,949 66,932 Relating to acquisition of subsidiaries 2,228 35 5,222 7,485 Disposals 498 370 2,239 3,107 Transfer from CWIP 124,046 691 9,000 370 41,915 176,022 Reclassification 78 78 Transfer to Intangible 318 318 Impairments 1,376 1,376 Exchange difference 38 395 4 429 At 31 December 2016 19,206 137,321 26,991 172,612 11,108 246,113 22,981 636,332 Depreciation: At 1 January 2016 8,424 7,339 26,784 5,779 85,295 133,621 Charge for the year 2,032 1,454 17,429 1,345 22,750 45,010 Reclassification 40 40 Exchange difference 55 190 135 Relating to disposals 80 369 1,053 1,502 At 31 December 2016 10,511 8,793 44,093 6,755 106,842 176,994 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2016 19,206 126,810 18,198 128,519 4,353 139,271 22,981 459,338 As part of the Groups capital expenditure programme, borrowing costs of US$nil 2016: US$357,000 have been capitalised during the year.
The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was NIL% 2016: 1.9% which is the effective rate of the borrowings used to finance the capital expenditure.
Companies in the UAE are not subject to taxation and as such there is no tax relief in respect of capitalised interest.
128 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 17 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Total capital expenditure during the year ended 31 December 2017 was US$63,448,000 2016: US$66,932,000.
Of the total capital expenditure spend during the year, US$31,392,000 2016: US$38,949,000 related to new capital projects and US$32,056,000 2016: US$27,983,000 related to further capital investment in our existing facilities.
Generally hospital and distribution operations are carried out on land and buildings which are leased from Government authorities or certain private parties.
The majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty seven years apart from New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital, and the warehouse facilities which have leases renewable on an annual basis note 2.3.
As at 31 December 2017 US$569,000 2016: US$801,000 of the amounts included in property and equipment related to assets with annually renewable leases.
In accordance with the local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held in the name of a UAE national.
As a result, land and buildings of the Group are legally registered in the name of shareholders or previous shareholders of the Group.
Land with a carrying amount of US$4,144,000 31 December 2016: US$4,144,000 is held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group.
As the beneficial interest of such land resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The directors take into account this local legal registration requirement, the Groups entitlement to the beneficial interest arising from these assets, as well as other general business factors, when considering whether such assets are impaired.
Sunny note 5 2,126 2,126 Exchange difference 167 630 356 5,862 308 7,323 At 31 December 2016 7,723 64,713 19,282 567,338 10,169 669,225 Amortisation: At 1 January 2016 1,078 1,588 1,270 1,508 5,444 Charge for the year 819 4,614 2,681 2,875 10,989 Exchange difference 39 152 191 At 31 December 2016 1,858 6,202 3,951 4,231 16,242 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2016 5,865 58,511 15,331 567,338 5,938 652,983 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 129 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 18 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Others include intellectual property, rental contracts, private contracts and non-compete arrangements.
Reclassification of US$5,056,000 in 2017 represents transfer of patient relationship incorrectly classified under brands in 2016.
GOODWILL Additions to goodwill in the year relate to goodwill measured in respect of the acquisitions of Al Zahra Private Hospital Company, As Salama Hospital LLC, Hamad Drug Store LLC, Atlas Healthcare, Al Qadi Speciality Hospital LLC and Fecunmed.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed annually for assessment of impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
The Group performed its annual goodwill impairment test in December 2017 and 2016.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the following operating segments representing a group of cash generating units CGUs, which are also operating and reportable segments, for impairment testing: Healthcare Distribution and services The healthcare CGU has goodwill allocated to it of US$1,052,886,000 at the year-end 2016: US$562,459,000.
The distribution and services CGU has goodwill allocated to it of US$4,879,000 at the year-end 2016:US$4,879,000.
The recoverable amounts for both CGUs are based on value in use, which has been calculated using cash flow projections from financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five year period.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a 3% growth rate 2016: 3% which is significantly lower than the current annual growth rate of both CGUs.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flows of both CGUs is 8.23% 2016: 8.45%, which is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC and takes into account such measures as risk free rates of return, the Groups debt equity ratio, cost of debt and local risk premiums specific to the CGUs.
As a result of the analysis, there is headroom in both CGUs and no impairment has been identified.
Reasonable sensitivities have been applied to each CGUs cash flows and the discount rates used, and in all cases the value in use continues to exceed the carrying amount of CGU goodwill.
The key assumptions on which management has based its cash flow projections for the five year period covered by the most recent forecasts are those related to growth in available beds, patient numbers for the healthcare segment and revenue from the distribution of products for the distribution and services segment.
The assumptions made reflect past experience and are based on managements best estimate and judgment.
OTHER ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Assets in this class are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
All amortisation charges for the year have been charged against operating profits.
Other than goodwill, the Group does not hold any intangible assets with an indefinite life.
Included in software are HIS and ERP projects amounting to US$1,783,000 2016: US$3,349,000 which are work-in-progress as of year-end.
As of 31 December 2017, the Group has recorded impairment of US$2,000,000 2016:US$nil against this.
130 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 19 LOAN RECEIVABLE 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Loan receivable 32,187 14,516 32,187 14,516 Classification of loan receivable into current and non-current is as follows: Current 32,187 5,387 Non-current 9,129 32,187 14,516 In 2015, the Group entered into a loan arrangement, with a third party Borrower, to finance certain payables in connection with a hospital facility, for an aggregate amount not to exceeding US $8,848,000 with the repayment of the first trance US$2,720,000 on 10 November 2016, second trance US $2,720,000 on 10 November 2017 and the remaining final trance payment by 10 November 2018.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, the loan agreement was amended in respect of first trance and second trance repayment date and total loan facility amount.
First and second trance loan repayment date was revised as 31 March 2018 and the loan facility ceiling was increased to US$32,528,000.
The Group believes that the amount is fully recoverable.
Loan is secured by obtaining personal guarantees of shareholders of borrower.
The loan is interestfree, however, any unpaid loan receivable as of due date shall bear commission at the rate of 15% per annum starting from due date till date of payment.
20 INVENTORIES 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Pharmaceuticals and cosmetics 101,096 75,657 Scientific equipment 12,675 13,404 Consumer products 49,181 42,568 Food 9,632 7,087 Egg bank 5,083 2,656 Consumables 1,926 855 Opticals 294 309 Goods in transit 1,440 1,636 Other 1,222 1,393 182,549 145,565 Less: provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories 1,219 1,178 181,330 144,387 The amount of write down of inventories recognised as an expense for the year ended 31 December 2017 is US$2,346,000 2016: US$1,869,000.
This is recognised in direct costs.
21 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Accounts receivable 440,146 314,351 Receivable from suppliers for promotional expenses 14,235 13,164 Other receivables 43,568 27,179 Prepayments 20,893 19,763 518,842 374,457 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 131 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 21 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS CONTINUED Receivables from suppliers relate to advertising and promotional expenses incurred by the Group.
Accounts receivable are stated net of provision for doubtful debts of US$15,747,000 2016: US$12,129,000.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts are as follows: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 12,129 13,022 Written off 4,382 4,377 Written back note 12 2,056 1,843 Charge for the year note 12 10,012 4,800 Addition from business combinations 549 Exchange difference 44 22 At 31 December 15,747 12,129 The ageing of unimpaired accounts receivable is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due Total nor impaired 90 days 91-180 days 181-365 days 365 days US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2017 Accounts receivable 440,146 279,343 86,363 34,302 24,435 15,703 31 December 2016 Accounts receivable 314,351 210,592 70,940 19,070 8,944 4,805 Unimpaired receivables are expected, on the basis of past experience, to be fully recoverable.
It is not the practice of Group to obtain collateral over receivables and they are therefore unsecured.
As at 31 December 2017 accounts receivables of US$15,747,000 2016: US$12,129,000 were impaired and fully provided for.
Credit risk is managed through the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to credit risk management note 33.
A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired are from insurance companies and government-linked entities in the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures.
Of the net trade receivables balance of US$440,146,000 2016:US$314,351,000 amount of US$226,298,000 is receivables from five customers 2016: US$159,922,000 is receivables from five customers.
The Groups terms require receivables to be repaid within 90-120 days depending on the type of customer, which is in line with local practice in the UAE.
Due to the long credit period offered to customers, a significant amount of trade accounts receivable are neither past due nor impaired.
Amounts due from related parties amounting to US$1,776,000 31 December 2016: US$3,628,000 as disclosed on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position are trading in nature and arise in the normal course of business.
Included in other receivables is an amount of US$5,245,000 2016:US$7,679,000 receivable from entities owned by a non-controlling interest.
22 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents included in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprise of the following: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Bank deposits 185,611 137,900 Bank balances and cash 202,002 479,940 Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 207,034 219,851 180,579 397,989 Adjustments for: Short term borrowings 139,086 160,628 Bank deposits maturing in over 3 months 69,088 28,329 Restricted cash 44,115 96,885 Cash and cash equivalents 206,462 433,403 Bank deposits of US$185,611,000 2016: US$137,900,000 are with commercial banks in the United Arab Emirates and Spain.
These are mainly denominated in the UAE Dirhams and Euro and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
These deposits have original maturity between 1 to 12 months 2016: 1 to 12 months.
132 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 22 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS CONTINUED Short term borrowings include trust receipts and invoice discounting facilities which mature between 90 and 180 days.
Trust receipts are short term borrowings to finance imports.
The bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings are secured by the corporate guarantee of subsidiary companies and personal guarantees of the shareholders H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr BR Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti and carry interest at EIBOR plus margin rates ranging from 1% to 4% 2016: 1% to 4% per annum.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had US$34,928,000 2016: US$59,715,000 of undrawn bank overdraft facilities, which are renewable annually.
Restricted cash mainly represents funds held by a bank in respect of upcoming loan repayment and payment for acquisitions.
23 SHARE CAPITAL 31 DECEMBER 2017 Number of Ordinary Share shares shares premium Total thousands US$000 US$000 US$000 Issued and fully paid nominal value 10 pence sterling each 204,423 31,928 492,634 524,562 31 DECEMBER 2016: Number of Ordinary Share shares shares premium Total thousands US$000 US$000 US$000 Issued and fully paid nominal value 10 pence sterling each 204,285 31,910 491,778 523,688 Issued share capital and share premium movement Number Ordinary Share of shares shares premium Total thousands US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 31 December 2017 At 1 January 2017 204,285 31,910 491,778 523,688 Exercise of stock option shares 138 18 856 874 At 31 December 2017 204,423 31,928 492,634 524,562 31 December 2016 At 1 January 2016 185,714 29,566 179,152 208,718 Issue of new shares IPO 18,571 2,344 319,970 322,314 Share issue costs 7,344 7,344 At 31 December 2016 204,285 31,910 491,778 523,688 24 GROUP RESTRUCTURING RESERVE The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests method used for group restructuring, which took place on 28 March 2012 when the Company became the holding company of NMC Healthcare LLC through its wholly owned subsidiaries, NMC Holding LLC and NMC Health Holdco Limited.
Under this method, the group is treated as a continuation of the NMC Healthcare LLC group.
The difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC US$27,226,000 and the carrying amount of the investment in that company US$37,227,000, which equates to the net assets of NMC Healthcare LLC at the date of reorganisation 28 March 2012, amounting to US$10,001,000 debit, is recorded on consolidation as a group restructuring reserve.
25 RETAINED EARNINGS As at 31 December 2017, retained earnings of US$18,423,000 2016: US$18,009,000 are not distributable.
This relates to a UAE Companies Law requirement to set aside 10% of annual profit of all UAE subsidiaries until their respective reserves equal 50% of their paid up share capital.
The subsidiaries discontinue such annual transfers once this requirement has been met.
26 DIVIDEND In the AGM on 23 May 2017 the shareholders approved a dividend of 10.6 pence per share, amounting to GBP 21,753,000 US$27,779,000 to be paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 12 May 2017.
The dividend `amount was paid to the shareholders on 1 June 2017 30 June 2016: a dividend of GBP 11,514,000 equivalent to US$16,350,000 was approved on 3 June 2016 and paid on 14 June 2016.
No interim dividend was declared during the year.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 28 June 2018, a final dividend of 13.0 pence per share, GBP 26,952,000 US$37,194,000 will be paid on 10 July 2018 to shareholders on the Companys share register on 15 June 2018.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 133 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 26 DIVIDEND CONTINUED An amount US$21,160,000 2016: US$5,300,000 was declared as dividend to non-controlling interest during the year, out of that US$5,303,000 2016: US$nil was adjusted against related party receivable balance, US$14,523,000 2016: US$5,300,000 was paid as dividend during the year and US$1,334,000 2016: US$nil remain unpaid for the year ended 31 December 2017.
These syndicated facilities were used to settle an existing syndicated loan and for acquisition purposes.
New facilities are repayable over 60 and 84 monthly instalments respectively with a grace period of twelve months.
New facilities are guaranteed by corporate guarantees from NMC Health plc and operating subsidiaries of the Group.
These loans are secured against a collateral package which includes assignment of some insurance company receivables and a pledge over certain bank accounts within the Group and shares of the entities acquired using the proceeds of the loan.
In addition to the above facilities, term loans also include other short term revolving loans which get drawn down and repaid over the year.
The Group has charged an amount of US$6,794,000 to the consolidated income statement with respect to unamortised transaction costs of existing debts which have been settled using proceeds of new syndicate loan.
28 EMPLOYEES END OF SERVICE BENEFITS Movements in the provision recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 30,208 22,490 Charge for the year 11,106 7,246 Actuarial gain loss 1 147 Transfer from related party 180 4 Employees end of service benefits paid 3,447 1,546 Addition from business combinations 10,233 1,867 Balance at 31 December 48,279 30,208 Current 6,905 3,560 Noncurrent 41,374 26,648 Balance at 31 December 48,279 30,208 Charge for the year comprise of the following: Current service cost 10,173 6,525 Interest cost 933 721 Balance at 31 December 11,106 7,246 In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19 Employee Benefits, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligation at 31 December 2017 and 2016, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees end of service benefits payable under the UAE Labour Law.
During the current year, the Group has recognised an actuarial gain of US$1,000 31 December 2016: loss of US$147,000 in other comprehensive income.
Management has assumed an average length of service of 5 years 2016: 5 years and increment promotion costs of 1.5% 2016: 1.5%.
The expected liability at the date of employees leaving service has been discounted to its net present value using a discount rate of 2.5% 2016: 2.5%.
Management also performed a sensitivity analysis for changes in discount rate and increment costs: the results of this analysis showed that none of the factors had any material impact on the actuarial valuation.
134 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 29 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUALS 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Trade accounts payable 152,811 108,202 Accrued interest 2,681 2,691 Accrued expenses 9,921 7,362 Others 44,057 40,557 209,470 158,812 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 50-60 day terms.
Included in others is an amount of US$17,596,000 2016: US$22,822,000 in respect of lease payable.
30 OTHER PAYABLES 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Contingent consideration payable for acquisitions note 36 10,519 24,139 Deferred consideration payable for acquisitions 5,307 6,551 Other payable 41,268 36,929 57,094 67,619 Classification of other payables into current and non-current is as follows: Current 18,110 26,827 Non-current 38,984 40,792 57,094 67,619 During 2016, the Group assumed a liability upon acquisition of Fakih IVF to deliver cash or another financial asset by issuing the Post-dated cheques those were issued by a subsidiary prior to acquisition by NMC and not connected to the subsidiary acquired and met the definition of financial liability, present value of such Post-dated cheques of US $38,029,000 was recorded as liability as of acquisition date.
Further, the Group has a contractual right to be compensated from the Seller by way of cash or other financial asset in case it suffers any loss on account of those Post-dated cheques as the Group is indemnified by the Seller for any loss that may arise on account of encashment of such issued Post-dated cheques before their replacement.
Accordingly, a contra indemnity asset was recorded of the above same amount as of acquisition date.
As of 31 December 2017, present value of Post-dated cheques issued and corresponding receivable is US$40,068,000 2016: US$36,929,000 and have been recorded under other payables and other assets.
Current portion of other assets is recorded under other receivables included in accounts receivable and prepayment note 21 and non-current portion is recorded under other non-current assets.
Classification of financial asset is as follows: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Current 4,043 Non-current 36,025 36,929 40,068 36,929 31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS These represent transactions with related parties, including major shareholders and senior management of the Group, and entities controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by such parties, or where such parties are members of the key management personnel of the entities.
Pricing policies and terms of all transactions are approved by the management of the Group.
The Companys immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr BR Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti who are all shareholders and of whom two are directors of the Company and who together have the ability to control the company.
As the immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of individuals, it does not produce consolidated financial statements.
RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT The Controlling Shareholders and the Company have entered into a relationship agreement, the principal purpose of which is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying out its business independently of the Controlling Shareholders and that transactions and relationships with the Controlling Shareholders are at arms length and on a normal commercial basis.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 135 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONTINUED RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT CONTINUED In accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement, the Controlling Shareholders have a collective right to appoint a number of Directors to the Board depending upon the level of their respective shareholdings.
This entitlement reduces or is removed as the collective shareholdings reduce.
The relationship agreement includes provisions to ensure that the Board remains independent.
Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated income statement are as follows: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC management personnel in NMC.
Sales 40 14 Purchases 78,778 59,370 Rent charged 353 451 Other income 1,883 1,435 Entities where a shareholder of NMC is a key member of management personnel of such entity Personnel of the entity.
Management fees received from such entity by NMC 1,776 6,303 Sales 296 Amounts due from and due to related parties disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC Amounts due to related parties 28,472 14,876 Amounts due from related parties 1,776 Entities where a shareholder of NMC is a key member of management personnel of the entity management personnel of such entity Amounts due from related parties 3,628 Outstanding balances with related parties at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 were unsecured, payable on 50-60 days term and carried interest at 0% 31 December 2016: 0% per annum.
As at 31 December 2017 US$nil of the amounts due from related parties were past due but not impaired 31 December 2016: US$1,576,000.
The bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings are secured by the corporate guarantee of subsidiary companies and personal guarantees of the shareholders H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr BR Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti.
Pharmacy licenses in UAE under which the Group sells its products, are granted to the shareholders or directors of the Company, who are UAE nationals.
No payments are made in respect of these licenses to shareholders or directors.
COMPENSATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Short term benefits 15,142 10,236 Employees end of service benefits 24 16 15,166 10,252 The key management personnel include all the Non-Executive Directors, the three 31 December 2016: two Executive Directors and four 31 December 2016: four senior management personnel.
During the year additional shares of 833,284 2016: 451,868 were granted to Executive Directors and other senior management in the form of share options.
One individual 31 December 2016: One who is a related party of one of the shareholders is employed by the Group.
The total compensation for employment received by that related party in the year ended 31 December 2017 amounts to US$2,286,000 2016: US$1,303,000.
136 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 32 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS The Group currently operates two share option schemes: LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP Options awarded under the LTIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management.
The exercise prices are nil.
Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of three years.
The LTIP is subject to performance conditions which can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 77.
SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLAN STIP Options awarded under the STIP are made annually to Executive Directors and other senior management.
Options have a life of ten years and a vesting period of 3 years.
Fair values are determined using the Black-Scholes model.
Expected volatility has been based on historical volatility over the period since the Companys shares have been publically traded.
Administrative expenses include a charge of US$9,181,000 2016: US$2,640,000 in respect of the cost of providing share options.
The cost is calculated by estimating the fair value of the option at grant date and spreading that amount over the vesting period after adjusting for an expectation of non-vesting.
For options granted in the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2017, the fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2017 2016 STIP STIP Share price at grant date 20.740 9.675 Fair value at measurement date 20.425 9.520 Exercise price nil nil Expected volatility 40% 40% Expected option life 2 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 0.51% 0.54% Risk free interest rate 1.57% 1.05% 2017 2017 2016 LTIP1 LTIP2 LTIP Share price at grant date 16.330 27.390 9.675 Fair value at measurement date 16.082 27.088 9.520 Exercise price nil nil nil Expected volatility 40% 40% 40% Expected option life 3 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 0.51% 0.37% 0.54% Risk free interest rate 1.49% 1.38% 1.05% LTIP represent long term incentive plans issued in January and September 2017.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 137 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 32 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLAN STIP CONTINUED The options existing at the year-end were as follows: 2017 2016 Number of Exercise Number of Exercise shares price shares price Period when exercisable Long term incentive plan LTIP October 2014 60,292 nil 160,778 nil 29 10 17 to 28 10 24 Short term incentive plan STIP October 2014 20,165 nil 55,527 nil 29 10 17 to 28 10 24 Long term incentive plan LTIP February 2015 221,539 nil 221,539 nil 25 02 18 to 24 02 25 Short term incentive plan STIP February 2015 74,801 nil 74,801 nil 25 02 18 to 24 02 25 Long term incentive plan LTIP September 2015 49,309 nil 49,309 nil 09 09 18 to 08 09 25 Long term incentive plan LTIP March 2016 383,717 nil 383,717 nil 15 03 19 to 14 03 26 Short term incentive plan STIP March 2016 68,151 nil 68,151 nil 15 03 19 to 14 03 26 Long term incentive plan LTIP January 2017 562,323 nil 27 01 18 to 26 01 27 Short term incentive plan STIP May 2017 150,435 nil 09 05 18 to 08 05 27 Long term incentive plan LTIP September 2017 120,526 nil 07 09 18 to 06 09 27 Long term incentive plan LTIP Total options subsisting on existing 1,711,258 1,013,822 ordinary shares 0.8% 0.5% Percentage of issued share capital Movement of share options during the year is as follows: 2017 2016 At 1 January 1,013,822 561,954 Vested in lieu of dividend 2,290 Granted during the year 833,284 451,868 Exercised during the year 138,138 Outstanding at 31 December 1,711,258 1,013,822 No options expired or forfeited during the year 2016: nil.
33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, contingent consideration on acquisition of subsidiaries, put option redemption liability and trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has accounts and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
These risks and the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are consistent with last year.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk includes risk on the Groups net investment in foreign subsidiaries in Spain and certain other countries.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
INTEREST RATE RISK Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its interest bearing assets and liabilities bank deposits, bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings and term loans.
Management is of the opinion that the Groups exposure to interest rate risk is limited.
138 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED INTEREST RATE RISK CONTINUED The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the consolidated income statement to reasonably possible changes in interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity of the consolidated income statement is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates on the Groups profit for the year based on the floating rate financial assets and financial liabilities as of the respective year end.
Effect on profit at Effect on profit at Increase decrease 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 in basis points US$000 US$000 100 12,134 9,112 100 12,134 9,112 CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group limits its credit risk with respect to customers due to the nature of the customers that it has dealings with.
Within the Healthcare business in the GCC, the majority of the Groups customers are insurance companies.
The largest insurance company in GCC is fully backed by Sovereign wealth funding from Abu Dhabi.
All other insurance companies in the GCC are required to be listed on a stock exchange and therefore are governed by the regulations of their respective markets.
The Group limits its credit risk with respect to healthcare customers in markets other than GCC by requesting certain percentage of advance payments from customers and obtaining final payments before completion of treatment.
Within the distribution business the Group deals primarily with large reputable multinational retail companies.
The Group further seeks to limit its credit risk by setting credit limits for individual customers and monitoring outstanding receivables.
The Group limits its credit risk with regard to bank deposits by only dealing with reputable banks.
The external credit ratings for the banks at which the bank deposits and cash at bank are held are as follows: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 AAA-1 Aa3 11,903 A A1 5,494 A A2 162 219,787 A A-1 33,188 4,273 A3 A- 2,258 5,865 A2 22,857 AAA A-1 95,859 6,164 A2 P-1 15,264 140 A3 P-2 11,465 19 B1 1,629 BB 1,505 4,196 BB 1,404 562 Baa2 55 P-3 142,748 Baa3 163,491 BBB 6,878 1,938 BBB- 567 42,172 BBB Baa1 Baa1 P-2 499 120,627 Caa1 B3 2,198 Without external credit rating 49,199 28,633 Total bank deposit and cash at bank 386,106 616,893 With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 139 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED LIQUIDITY RISK The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of banking facilities.
The Group limits its liquidity risk by raising funds from its operations and ensuring bank facilities are available.
Trade payables are normally settled within 50-60 days of the date of purchase.
The table below summarises the maturities of the Groups undiscounted financial liabilities, based on contractual payment dates and current market interest rates.
These are to be financed from the fixed deposits held by the Group.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk comprises of transaction risk, statement of financial position risk and the Groups net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Transaction risk relates to the Groups cash flow being adversely affected by a change in the exchange rates of foreign currencies against the UAE Dirham.
Statement of financial position risk relates to the risk of the Groups monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies acquiring a lower or higher value, when translated into UAE Dirhams, as a result of currency movements.
The Group is exposed to currency risk on its trade accounts payable, put option redemption payable and certain other payables denominated in foreign currencies, mainly in Euros and Saudi Riyal.
As the US Dollar is pegged to the UAE Dirham, balances in US Dollars are not considered to represent significant currency risk.
The table below indicates the impact of Groups foreign currency monetary liabilities and assets at 31 December, on its profit before tax.
2017 2016 US$000 US$000 5% 2,460 2,113 -5% 2,460 2,113 The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
During the year ended 31 December 2017 the Group has recorded a foreign currency exchange gain of US$15,304,000 2016: loss of US$4,050,000 on the translation of foreign subsidiaries in other comprehensive income.
140 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholders value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in business conditions.
Capital comprises share capital, share premium, reserves and retained earnings is measured at US$1,089,716,000 as at 31 December 2017 2016: US$906,869,000.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Certain banking facilities may also impose covenant requirements on the Group with respect to capital management.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by capital plus net debt.
The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, accounts payable and accruals and other payables less bank deposits and bank balances and cash.
2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 1,399,028 1,049,150 Accounts payable and accruals 209,470 158,812 Other payable 57,094 67,619 Option redemption payable 38,747 37,500 Less: bank deposits, bank balances and cash 387,613 617,840 Net debt and payables 1,316,726 695,241 Capital 1,089,716 906,869 Capital and net debt 2,406,442 1,602,110 Gearing ratio 55% 43% 34 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business from which it is anticipated that no material liabilities will arise at 31 December 2017 of US$18,209,000 2016: US$11,764,000.
35 COMMITMENTS CAPITAL COMMITMENTS The Group had future capital commitments of US$5,723,000 at 31 December 2017 2016: US$9,048,000 principally relating to the completion of ongoing capital projects.
OTHER COMMITMENTS 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases Within one year 12,888 11,354 After one year but not more than five years 57,916 53,896 More than five years 54,023 74,080 Total 124,827 139,330 36 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION Contingent consideration relates to acquisitions done in current and prior year.
Movements in contingent consideration payable are as follows: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 24,139 25,016 Contingent consideration recognised at acquisition note 5 704 9,642 Fair value measurement 133 1,549 Purchase price allocation adjustment 2,126 Exchange loss gain 862 375 Payments made 15,053 9,567 Balance at 31 December 10,519 24,139 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 141 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 36 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE CONTINUED CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION CONTINUED In accordance with the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 13, contingent consideration is classified as a level 3 derivative financial instrument.
The fair value of outstanding contingent consideration as at the reporting date is US$10,519,000 2016:US$24,139,000.
The valuation technique used for measurement of contingent consideration is the weighted average probability method and then applying discounting.
Contingent consideration payable as of 31 December 2017 comprises of following: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 CIRH 2,912 Biogenesi 3,391 4,741 Dr Sunny Healthcare 3,644 ProVita 3,298 3,298 Fakih 3,126 8,128 CFC 1,416 Fecunmed 704 10,519 24,139 CIRH Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of revenue targets.
Significant unobservable inputs used are revenue targets and discount rate 9.2%.
Contingent consideration on achieving 2016 EBITDA target has been paid fully in 2017.
Biogenesi Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of profit before tax target.
Significant unobservable inputs used are profit before tax and discount rate 10.7%.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$3,594,000 2016: US$5,260,000 and its present value is US$3,391,000 2016: US$4,741,000.
Contingent consideration amounting to US$2,259,000 on achieving 2017 EBITDA target has been paid during the year.
Outstanding contingent consideration is payable in the period from 2018 to 2019.
A 1% increase in discount rate would result in decrease in fair value of the contingent consideration by US$17,000 and a 1% decrease in discount rate would result in increase in fair value by US$17,000.
Management believe profit before tax targets for FY 2018 FY 2019 will be met and accordingly not considered sensitive to fair value measurement.
Sunny Healthcare The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable on achieving 2016 EBITDA target amount.
Target EBITDA has been achieved and accordingly this contingent consideration has been paid during the year.
ProVita The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable in the event that licenses to operate in Qatar will be obtained.
Management believes that it is highly probable that these licenses will be obtained.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$3,500,000 and its present value is US$3,298,000.
Fakih The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable in the event that licenses to operate in certain other GCC countries are obtained.
Contingent consideration amounting to US$5,000,000 on obtaining Oman facility licence has been paid during the year.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$3,474,000 2016: US$9,031,000 and its present value is US$3,126,000 2016: US$8,128,000.
CFC The contingent consideration relates to amounts payable on achieving 2016 EBITDA target amount.
Target EBITDA has been achieved and accordingly this has been fully paid in 2017.
FECUNMED Contingent consideration is payable subject to attainment of revenue targets.
Full value of contingent consideration payable is US$958,000 and its present value is US$704,000.
142 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 37 OPTION REDEMPTION PAYABLE Option redemption payable comprise of the following: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Luarmia 26,019 25,252 CFC and HCMR 11,874 12,248 Fecunmed 854 38,747 37,500 Movement in option redemption payable is as follows: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 37,500 25,084 Addition 854 12,801 Re-measurement of liability 2,398 Re-measurement adjustment note 10 2,012 2,160 Exchange loss gain 779 275 Settlement of put option 2,270 Balance at 31 December 38,747 37,500 Classification of option redemption payables into current and non-current is as follows: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Current 26,019 Non-current 12,728 37,500 38,747 37,500 LUARMIA As part of acquisition of Luarmia SL Luarmia in 2015, the Group entered into separate co-investment shareholder agreements dated 23 February 2015 with the sellers relating to put & call options on the minority 11.6% shareholdings that remains with the previous owners post-acquisition.
The Group does not have present ownership of this 11.6% minority shareholding due to the terms of the option agreements and continue to account for the acquisition of Luarmia on the basis of an 88.4% equity stake, with full recognition of the 11.6% non-controlling interest.
The put options are exercisable between 1 & 30 June 2018, 1 & 30 June 2019 and 1 & 30 June 2020 three exercisable windows.
On exercise of the put options, cash will be paid.
The value of the put option is calculated based on the multiple of purchase price and further multiples are measured on the number of reproductive cycles specified in the agreement.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date was created amounting to US$24,496,000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2017, the present value of the redemption liability is US$26,019,000 2016: US$25,252,000.
The key assumption in estimating the expected amount is the multiple of purchase price and reproductive cycles projections.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in these assumptions for example a 10% increase in reproductive cycles will result in an increase in the financial liability by US$1,545,400 2016: US$3,268,830, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability by US$1,544,000 2016: US$3,101,800.
CFC and HCMR In 2016, Luarmia SL entered into put option agreements with the minority shareholders of Brazil and Denmark entities.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date was created amounting to US$11,216,000 and US$1,585,000 being the present value of the redemption liability at the acquisition date, with an equal amount being treated as a reduction in equity.
As at 31 December 2017, the present value of the redemption liability is US$9,979,000 and US$1,895,000 respectively.
During the year Luarmia SL entered into put option agreements with the minority shareholders of Fecunmed.
A redemption liability for the value of the options at the acquisition date was created amounting to US$854,000.
The present value of the redemption liability remains same as on 31 December 2017.
The put option of HCMR is exercisable any time starting from the third anniversary and 36 months thereafter.
The earliest date of exercise is September 2019.
The key assumption in estimating the liability amount is the forecasted EBITDA of the year 2018 and 2019 and projected net debt of 2019.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in the forecasted EBITDA and Net Debt.
For example a 10% simultaneous increase in EBITDA and Net debt will result in an increase in the financial liability with US$866,000 while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability with US$866,000.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 143 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At 31 December 2017 37 OPTION REDEMPTION PAYABLE CONTINUED LUARMIA CONTINUED The put option for CFC is exercisable from the fifth anniversary of the date of the agreement.
With respect to this, the earliest month of exercise is June 2021.
The key assumption in estimating the liability amount is the forecasted EBITDA of the entity for 2020.
The financial liability is sensitive to changes in the forecasted EBITDA.
For example a 10% increase in EBITDA will result in an increase in the financial liability with US$189,000, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability with US$189,000.
Fecunmed The put option for Fecunmed is exercisable from the third anniversary of the date of the agreement.
With respect to this, the earliest month of exercise is 31 December 2020.
For example a 10% increase in EBITDA will result in an increase in the financial liability with US$71,000, while a 10% decrease would result in a decrease in the financial liability with US$71,000.
38 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair values of the Groups financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values at the statement of financial position date.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value are disclosed in note 36.
During the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
39 ASSET CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 Asset classified as held for sale 3,693 3,693 In September 2017, the Group decided to sell the investment in joint venture and the negotiated sale is at an advanced stage and is expected to be completed before the end of June 2018.
40 CHANGES IN LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Forex exchange 31 December 01 January 2017 Cash Inflow Cash Outflow movement Others 2017 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 Term Loans Current and Non-current portion 829,299 671,353 319,111 6,417 4,036 1,191,994 Bank overdrafts and Other short-term borrowings 219,851 351,775 373,318 8,726 207,034 Dividend payable 1,334 1,334 Total liabilities from financing activities 1,049,150 1,023,128 692,429 6,417 14,096 1,400,362 Forex exchange 31 December 01 January 2016 Cash Inflow Cash Outflow movement Others 2016 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 Term Loans Current and Non-current portion 575,346 631,548 378,660 1,970 3,035 829,299 Bank overdrafts and Other short-term borrowings 154,962 351,089 319,556 33,356 219,851 Dividend payable Total liabilities from financing activities 730,308 982,637 698,216 1,970 36,391 1,049,150 144 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
Financial Statements V. 40 CHANGES IN LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES CONTINUED The Others column includes the effect of amortisation of transaction costs, additions in interest-bearing loans from business combination and accrual of dividend that were not yet paid at the year-end.
The Group classifies interest paid as cash flow from operating activities.
41 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS ACQUISITION IN UNITED ARAB EMIRATES On 03 January 2018, the Group acquired an additional 49% interest in the voting shares of Fakih IVF, increasing its ownership interest to 100% for consideration of US$205m.
Of the total consideration, US$66m is to be settled in cash and the remainder to be settled by issuing equity shares of NMC Health plc.
As the ownership interest increased by 49%, the Group will derecognise the minority interest.
Excess of consideration paid over the carrying amount of the non-controlling interests will be recognised in equity.
The Group has elected to recognise this effect in retained earnings.
On 03 January 2018, the Group acquired 100% interest in the voting shares of Fakih Medical Center, for cash consideration of US$68m.
Regulatory approvals and legal formalities completed on 18 February 2018, meaning that control has passed to the Group and full consolidation of results will commence from that date.
On 05 November 2017, the Group agreed to acquire the business and assets of RAK, located in Ras al-Khaimah emirate of United Arab Emirates.
RAK offers an extensive range of medical care programs, easy access to doctors and a wide variety of specialties.
RAK Royal Medical Center employs over a 100 staff and during 2017 served an average of 100 patients a day.
RAK consists of Medical Center, Dental centre, Royal Diagnostic Center and Royal Pharmacy.
Regulatory approvals and legal formalities completed on 03 January 2018, meaning that control has passed to the Group and full consolidation of results will commence from that date.
The agreed purchase consideration for the business was US$6.8m.
On 21 January 2018, the Group agreed to acquire 70% controlling stake of Cosmesurge Clinics CS.
CS is an industry leader in the UAE in providing quality cosmetic surgery and aesthetic medicine.
The assets being acquired include 17 operational clinics, and a 10-bed hospital and two new clinics which are being constructed and scheduled to open in 2018.
NMC currently provides invasive cosmetic procedures and complex surgeries and the addition of CS will expand the Groups offering.
Having managed CS under an O&M contract since September 2017, NMC has already identified a number of revenue and cost synergy opportunities.
The agreed purchase consideration for the business is US$170m.
There is no deferred and contingent consideration payable.
Regulatory approvals and legal formalities with respect to the acquisition are expected to be completed by Q1 2018.
ACQUISITION IN KINGDOM OF SAUDI ARABIA On 03 January 2018, the Group acquired an additional 29% interest in the voting shares of As Salama, increasing its ownership interest to 100% for cash consideration of US$13m.
As the ownership interest increased by 29%, the Group will derecognise 29% the minority interest.
On 27 December 2017, the Group agreed to acquire 100% controlling stake in the voting shares of Al Rashid Hospital, subject to the completion of all the conditions precedent referred in SPA.
Al Rashid Specialty Hospital LLC is the first private hospitals in the Hail province of KSA, operating 64 active inpatient beds, serving approximately 110,000 outpatients and 9,500 inpatient bed days per year.
This asset would be difficult to replicate, and considerably marks NMCs presence in the Northern region of KSA.
NMC acquired control of Al Rashid Hospital on 03 January 2018, the date on which all the conditions precedent were met, meaning that control has passed to the Group and full consolidation of results will commence from that date.
The total purchase consideration was US$28.7m.
ACQUISITION IN BRAZIL On 21 December 2017, the Group agreed to acquire 60% controlling stake in the voting shares of Pro-Criar, an unlisted company based in Brazil and specialising in research and medical services in the fields of gynaecology, obstetrics and human reproduction.
NMC acquired control of Pro-Criar on 07 January 2018, the date on which all the conditions precedent were met, meaning that control has passed to the Group and full consolidation of results will commence from that date.
The total purchase consideration was US$2.6m.
NEW SYNDICATION TERM LOAN On 26 February 2018, the Group agreed a new syndicated loan facility of US$2,000,000,000.
The new syndicated loan facility will been utilised to refinance some of the existing debts as well as to support the Groups growth strategy in making accretive acquisitions.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 145
