Fidessa group plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued In addition to the going concern consideration, the Board has assessed Fidessas viability over a period longer than the 12 months covered by the going concern statement.
The Board determined that an assessment covering a period of three years, to 31st December 2020, was an appropriate period to assess Fidessas longer term viability.
In reaching this determination, consideration was given to Fidessas long-term strategy and focus and the period for which Fidessa has visibility over typical commercial arrangements with customers.
Consideration was also give to Fidessas track record of high levels of recurring revenue, ability to manage variable costs, strong cash generation, healthy cash balances and its absence of debt.
The review included stress tests on the future performance and solvency for changes in the base assumptions over the three years and also for the principal risks facing the business in severe but plausible combination scenarios together with the effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
Consideration has also been given to the risks of regional changes such as Brexit and the change in the US administration: however, the Board believes that the global nature of its trading platforms means that it is less susceptible to the effects of regional changes, as trading infrastructure is likely to continue to operate on a cross border basis.
Additionally, the potential impact of foreign exchange movements was considered with the Board noting that a weakness in sterling represents a tailwind as over 70% of the Groups revenues and a lower proportion of its costs are denominated in non-sterling currencies.
Based on this assessment, the Board has reasonable expectations that Fidessa will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31st December 2020.
In doing so, it is recognised that such future assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that increases with time and, therefore, future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Directors responsibilities statement in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on Fidessas website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Fidessa group plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report together include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and its subsidiaries included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Andy Skelton Director 16th February 2018
