Company Statement of Significant Accounting Policies The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have BASIS OF ACCOUNTING been applied in the preparation of these Financial Statements, in The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented accordance with FRS 101: as required by the Companies Act 2006.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation the requirements of paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 of financial instruments which are held at fair value as disclosed Share-based Payment below.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures consideration given in exchange for the goods and services.
the requirements of paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or Measurement paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that Financial Statements to present comparative information in price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation respect of: technique.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the i paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 and Company takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into ii paragraph 73 e of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment account when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
the requirements of paragraphs 10 d, 10 f, 16, 38A to 38D, 40A Fair value for measurement purposes in these Financial Statements to 40B, 111, and 134 to 136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial is determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment Statements transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that have the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting realisable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36.
Categorisation of Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors fair value is set out in the Financial Statements on page 141. the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related Party The separate Financial Statements have been prepared in Disclosures accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and the Companies Acts 2006 as related party transactions entered into between two or more applicable to companies using FRS 101.
FRS 101 sets out a reduced members of a group disclosure framework for a qualifying entity that would otherwise the requirements of paragraphs 130 f ii, 130 f iii, 134 d to 134 f apply the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of and 135 c to 135 e of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
The Company is a qualifying entity for the purposes of FRS 101.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have The accounting policy for share-based payments IFRS 2 is consistent been adopted in the current period: with that of the Group as detailed on pages 108 and 109.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle various DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS standards amendments to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in The accounting policy for derivative financial instruments is Other Entities consistent with that of the Group as detailed on pages 110 and 111.
Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The accounting policy for financial assets and liabilities is consistent Disclosure initiative amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash with that of the Group as detailed on page 110.
Flows The application of these specific Standards and Interpretations has INVESTMENTS not had a material effect on the Company.
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS The accounting policy for tangible fixed assets is consistent with that of the Group as detailed on page 109.
FOREIGN CURRENCY The accounting policy for foreign currency is consistent with that of the Group as detailed on page 107.
TAXATION The accounting policy for taxation is consistent with that of the Group as detailed on page 108.
DIVIDENDS Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors that have not been paid by the end of the year are not recognised in the Financial Statements until they have been approved by the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS Company Statement of Significant Accounting Policies IMPAIRMENT OF FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Determining whether the Companys investments are impaired In the application of the Companys accounting policies, which are requires an estimation of the investments value in use.
The key described above, the Directors are required to make judgements estimates made in the value in use calculation in relation to trading other than those involving estimates that have a significant impact subsidiaries are those regarding discount rates, sales growth rates, on the amounts recognised and to make estimates and assumptions and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs to reflect the about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not operational gearing of the business.
The Directors estimate discount readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors the time value of money for the Group.
that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from The Group performs investment impairment reviews by forecasting these estimates.
cash flows based upon the following years budget as a base, taking into account current economic conditions.
The carrying amount of The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an investments in subsidiaries at the balance sheet date was 443m ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in 2016: 443m with no impairment loss recognised in 2017 or 2016. the period in which the change takes place if the revision affects only Of the 443m net book value, 435m 2016: 435m relates to SIG that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the Trading Limited, the largest UK trading subsidiary, and therefore revision affects both current and future periods.
assumptions regarding sales, gross margin and operating profit In the course of preparing the Financial Statements, no judgements growth of this subsidiary are considered to be the key areas of have been made in the process of applying the Groups accounting estimation in the impairment review process.
Appropriate sensitivities policies that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in relation to this have been performed and disclosed in Note 5. in the Financial Statements, other than those involving estimations detailed below.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is The key estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of probable that future taxable profits will be available against which causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of the assets and the asset can be utilised.
Therefore, estimates are made to establish liabilities recognised by the Company within the next financial year whether deferred tax balances should be recognised, in particular in are detailed below.
184 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six
