Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance | Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for keeping adequate and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial responsible for such internal control as they determine is statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as that are free from material misstatement, whether due to adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such prepare the parent company financial statements on the steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the same basis.
assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and Under company law the directors must not approve the other irregularities.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, Governance Statement that complies with that law and the directors are required to: those regulations.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the relevant and reliable: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may state whether they have been prepared in accordance differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: assess the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
