Statement of Significant Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies adopted in this Annual Report and equivalents reduction in cash 0.6m and increase in bank overdrafts Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 are set out below.
19.2m and trade payables by 19.8m at 31 December 2016.
This restatement had no impact on the reported Consolidated Income BASIS OF PREPARATION Statement or net assets.
The Consolidated Cash Flow Statement The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with has also been restated, with cash and cash equivalents at 1 January International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the 2016 reduced by 23.9m to 62.8m and at 31 December 2016 by European Union EU, and therefore the Financial Statements comply 19.8m to 104.3m, resulting in an increase in net cash generated with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
from operating activities of 4.1m to 29.9m for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Notes 1, 17, 19, 20, 21, 26, 27, 28 and 32 have also The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical been restated to incorporate this adjustment.
cost convention except for derivative financial instruments which are stated at their fair value.
The principal accounting policies The effect of the prior year restatement on each financial line item applied in the preparation of these Financial Statements are set out affected is shown in Note 33. below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years The above restatements impacted net debt and EBITDA which had presented, unless otherwise stated.
an impact on headline financial leverage and interest cover covenant The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern calculations, but the Group remained within covenant requirements basis as set out on page 41. for all relevant periods.
Additional interest payable as a result of the restatements has been accrued for in these Financial Statements and The following subsidiaries of the Company are entitled to exemption has subsequently been paid.
from audit under s479A of the Companies Act 2006 relating to subsidiary companies: Building Systems Limited registered number: Further details regarding the restatements are provided in the Audit 07976470 and Metechno Limited registered number: 06464338.
The Group is committed to managing its capital structure to NEW STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND ensure that entities in the Group are able to continue as a going INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET ADOPTED concern while maximising the return to Shareholders through the At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
Further details can be following significant standards and interpretations, which have not found on page 35. been applied in these Financial Statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU : The following standards were amended in the current period: Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle various IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS EFFECTIVE FOR standards amendments to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in ACCOUNTING PERIODS BEGINNING ON OR AFTER 1 Other Entities JANUARY 2018 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses The standard is applicable to financial assets and financial liabilities, amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes and covers the classification, measurement, impairment and Disclosure initiative amendments to IAS 7 Statement of derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities together with Cash Flows introducing new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
Adoption of the above standards has not had a material impact on The Group has reviewed its financial assets and liabilities and the Financial Statements of the Group.
does not expect the new guidance to affect their classification and PRIOR YEAR RESTATEMENTS measurement.
The key change for SIG is around the documentation Following a whistleblowing allegation in SIG Distribution, the core of policies, hedging strategy and new hedge documentation.
insulation and interiors business in the UK, the Group has identified The new hedge accounting rules will align the accounting for hedging a historical overstatement of profit relating to the years ended 31 instruments more closely with the Groups risk management December 2016 and 31 December 2015 due to overstatement practices.
As a general rule, more hedge relationships might be of balances recognised in relation to rebates receivable from eligible for hedge accounting, as the standard introduces a more suppliers.
This error has been corrected by restating the prior year principles-based approach.
The Group has confirmed that its current comparatives, reducing prepayments and accrued income included hedge relationships will qualify as continuing hedges upon the with trade and other receivables by 3.3m and trade payables adoption of IFRS 9 and updated hedge documentation is in place included within trade and other payables by 0.8m at 31 December from 1 January 2018.
2016 and by reducing prepayments and accrued income by 0.4m at 1 January 2016.
The impact on the Consolidated Income Statement The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment for the year ended 31 December 2016 is an increase in cost of sales provisions based on expected credit losses ECL rather than before Other items of 3.7m resulting in an increase in operating only incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39.
It applies loss and loss before tax of 3.7m and an increase in loss after tax to financial assets classified at amortised cost, debt instruments of 3.0m.
Net assets are 3.3m lower than previously reported at measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, 31 December 2016 and 0.3m lower at 1 January 2016.
There is no contract assets under IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with impact on the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended Customers, lease receivables, loan commitments and certain 31 December 2016.
The restatement increased basic and diluted financial guarantee contracts.
Based on the assessments undertaken loss per share from 20.1p per share to 20.6p per share for the year to date, the Group expects a very small increase in the loss allowance ended 31 December 2016.
Notes 1, 2, 6, 8, 16, 23, 26 and 32 have for trade debtors which is not expected to be material i. e. no more also been restated, where relevant, to incorporate these changes.
than 5% of underlying pre-tax profit.
During the 2017 year end close procedures the Group also The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements identified a historical overstatement of cash and trade payables and changes in presentation.
These are expected to change the nature in relation to cash cut-off procedures associated with cheques and extent of the Groups disclosures about its financial instruments, issued around previous period ends.
This error has been corrected particularly in the year of the adoption of the new standard.
by restating the prior year comparatives, reducing cash and cash 105 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS Statement of Significant Accounting Policies The standard will affect primarily the accounting for the Groups IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS operating leases as the Group will recognise new assets and liabilities EFFECTIVE FOR ACCOUNTING PERIODS BEGINNING ON OR for its operating leases of properties and fleet.
As at 31 December AFTER 1 JANUARY 2018 2017, the Groups future minimum lease payments under nonThe new standard sets out the requirements for recognising cancellable operating leases amount to 321.1m on an undiscounted revenue from contracts with customers and replaces IAS 18 which basis see Note 29b.
covers contracts for goods and services and IAS 11 which covers construction contracts.
The standard is based on the principle that In addition, the nature of expenses related to those leases will now revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers change as IFRS 16 replaces the straight-line operating lease expense to a customer, with the transaction price receivable from customers with a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and interest allocated to distinct performance obligations, on a relative expense on lease liabilities.
No significant impact i. e. no more standalone selling price basis, based on a five-step model.
The Group than 5% of underlying pre-tax profit is expected for the Groups intends to adopt the standard using the modified retrospective finance leases.
approach which means that the cumulative impact of the adoption Financial covenants in relation to the debt facilities described in will be recognised in retained earnings as of 1 January 2018 and that Note 18 are based on existing accounting standards until maturity comparatives will not be restated.
impacting from October 2020 and therefore the adoption of IFRS 16 Management has assessed the effects of applying the new standard will not have an impact on compliance with existing covenants.
on the Financial Statements and has identified the following areas that will be affected: There are no other standards or interpretations issued but not yet effective which are expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Prompt payment discounts given to customers are currently accounted for when paid.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION net of discounts expected to be taken, calculated based on The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial either an expected value or most likely amount method, to the Statements of the Company and each of its subsidiary undertakings extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount after eliminating all significant intercompany transactions and of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold assessments undertaken to date this is not expected to have a are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which material i. e. no more than 5% of underlying pre-tax profit impact control passed.
on transition, and will have minimal impact on an annual basis going forwards.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately therein.
Non-controlling interests consist For a small number of contracts in the Offsite business, it will of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business need to be explicit in contract terms that the Group is entitled combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in to payment for performance to date in order to be able to equity since the date of the combination.
Losses attributable to the continue to recognise revenue over time.
There is expected to non-controlling interest in excess of their interest in the subsidiarys be an adjustment on transition on 1 January 2018 in relation to equity are allocated against the interest of SIG except to the extent contracts in progress under existing terms at that date, which will that the non-controlling interest has a binding obligation and is able to reduce retained earnings at 1 January 2018 but then increase the make an additional investment to cover the losses.
revenue and profit recognised in the year ending 31 December 2018.
The estimated impact of this on retained earnings Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result at 1 January 2018 and profit before tax for the year ending in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The 31 December 2018 is expected to be less than 1.0m.
Contract carrying amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling terms have been changed from 1 January 2018 and therefore this interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests is not expected to have an impact after the year of transition.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the IFRS 16 LEASES EFFECTIVE FOR ACCOUNTING PERIODS consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and BEGINNING ON OR AFTER 1 JANUARY 2019 attributed to the Shareholders of the Company.
The standard eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and introduces a single lessee Profit and loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between accounting model where the lessee is required to recognise assets the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less, previous carrying amount of the net assets including goodwill and or the underlying asset is of low value.
intangible assets of the businesses.
The Group has completed an initial assessment of the potential All results are from continuing operations under IFRS as the impact on its Financial Statements but has not yet completed its businesses identified as non-core did not meet the disclosure detailed assessment.
The actual impact of applying IFRS 16 on the criteria of being discontinued operations as they did not individually Financial Statements in the period of initial application will depend on or in aggregate represent a separate major line of business or future economic conditions, including the Groups borrowing rate at geographical area of operation.
In order to give an indication of the 1 January 2019, the composition of the Groups lease portfolio at that underlying earnings of the Group the results of these businesses date, the Groups latest assessment of whether it will exercise any have been included in the column of the Consolidated Income lease renewal options and the extent to which the Group chooses to Statement entitled Other items.
use practical expedients and recognition exemptions.
106 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six On the disposal of a foreign operation, all of the exchange differences GOODWILL AND BUSINESS COMBINATIONS accumulated in equity in respect of that operation are reclassified to All business combinations are accounted for by applying the the Consolidated Income Statement.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT DISCLOSURE the fair value of identifiable assets including intangible assets and Income statement items are presented in the middle column of the liabilities of the business acquired.
Consolidated Income Statement entitled Other Items where they Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
are significant in size and nature, and either they do not form part Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, of the trading activities of the Group or their separate presentation or more frequently when there is an indication that goodwill may enhances understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is Items classified as Other items are as follows: allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
If the Costs related to acquisitions recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of The Group has made a number of acquisitions in previous years.
the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying There are a number of specific costs relating to these acquisitions amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other which make comparison of performance of the businesses and assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of segments difficult.
Therefore the following items are recorded as each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised on goodwill is Other items to provide a more comparable view of the businesses not reversed in a subsequent period.
and enhance the clarity of the performance of the Group and its businesses to the readers of the Financial Statements.
The Group On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of remaining has grown both organically with the development of new operating goodwill relating to the entity disposed of is included in the subsidiaries and through acquisition.
However, there is significant determination of any profit or loss on disposal.
inconsistency between the accounting treatment of the goodwill and Goodwill recorded in foreign currencies is retranslated at each intangibles associated with the acquisition of businesses and those period end.
Any movements in the carrying value of goodwill as a generated internally.
On an unadjusted basis, a business acquired result of foreign exchange rate movements are recognised in the under IFRS 3 would report substantially lower operating profits Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
and a lower return on capital than a business acquired prior to the introduction of IFRS 3 and also to those businesses which have been Any excess of the fair value of net assets over consideration arising developed by the Group, thus making comparison of performance of on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the Consolidated the businesses and segments difficult: Income Statement.
i amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business combinations: NON-CURRENT ASSETS OR DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD FOR SALE ii expenses related to contingent consideration required to be Non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale are treated as remuneration for acquired businesses: measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair values less costs iii costs and credits arising from the re-estimation of deferred and to sell.
contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions: and Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale iv costs related to the acquisition of businesses.
if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction Impairment charges rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal Impairment charges related to non-current and current assets are group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
non-cash items and tend to be significant in size.
The presentation Management must be committed to the sale which should be of these as Other items further enhances the understanding of the expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one ongoing performance of the Group.
year from the date of classification.
Profits and losses on agreed sale or closure of non-core businesses and associated impairment charges FOREIGN CURRENCY The gain or loss on the sale or closure of businesses tends to be Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the significant in size and irregular in nature and is related to businesses local currency and converted at actual exchange rates at the date of that will not be part of the ongoing Group.
The gain or loss on the the transaction.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange sale or closure of these businesses is therefore included within Other rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an items.
exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Net operating losses attributable to businesses identified as At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities non-core denominated in foreign currencies are reported at the rates of Operating results from businesses identified as non-core do not exchange prevailing at that date.
form part of the ongoing trading activities of the Group and they are On consolidation, assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary therefore recorded separately in Other items in order to enhance the undertakings are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange understanding of the ongoing financial performance of the Group prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are and its businesses.
translated into Sterling at the average rate of exchange for the year as an approximation where actual rates do not fluctuate significantly.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and results of overseas operations, and on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such operations, are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS Statement of Significant Accounting Policies Net restructuring costs Some supplier rebate agreements are non-coterminous with the Groups financial year, and firm confirmation of amounts due may not Costs associated with fundamental changes in the organisational be received until six months after the balance sheet date.
structure and operating model supply chain review, such as redundancies, property closure costs and consultancy costs are Where the Group relies on estimates, these are made with reference significant in size and do not relate to ongoing operations of the to contracts or other agreements, management forecasts and Group.
These costs are therefore recorded as Other items in order to detailed operational workbooks.
Supplier rebate income estimates provide a better understanding of the ongoing financial performance are regularly reviewed by senior management.
Careful consideration is applied by management in assessing whether these costs relate to restructuring and changing Outstanding amounts at the balance sheet date are included in trade the shape and operations of the business as opposed to costs payables when the Group has the right to offset against amounts incurred in the normal course of business.
owing to the supplier and therefore settles on a net basis, in line with IAS 32 criteria.
Where the supplier rebates are not netted off the Defined benefit pension scheme curtailment loss amounts owing to that supplier, the outstanding amount is included The UK defined benefit pension scheme was closed to future benefit within prepayments and accrued income.
The carrying value of accrual on 30 June 2016 which led to a curtailment loss being inventory is reduced by the associated amount where the inventory recognised in 2016.
This was recorded within Other items as it is not has yet to be sold at the balance sheet date.
related to the underlying operations of the Group.
OPERATING PROFIT Other specific items Operating profit is stated after charging distribution costs, selling Other specific items, for example profit on sale of property not and marketing costs and administrative expenses, but before finance related to ongoing operations, are recorded in Other items where income and finance costs.
they do not form part of the underlying trading activities of the Group in order to enhance the understanding of the financial performance TAXATION of the Group.
A full breakdown of such items is included in Note 2 to Income tax on the profit or loss for the periods presented comprises the Financial Statements.
both current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the Other items within finance income and finance costs Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it relates The recycling of amounts previously recorded in reserves in respect to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised of interest rate derivative contracts cancelled following the Groups in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income or the equity issuance in 2009 are recorded within Other items as the Statement of Changes in Equity.
amounts relate to a fundamental refinancing, rather than the Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the ongoing hedging activities of the Group.
The amounts relating to year, using tax rates that have been enacted by the balance sheet this are expected to cease in 2018 as they become fully recycled.
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The unwinding of provision discounting is also included within Other items as it is specific in nature and showing this separately enhances Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally the understanding of the underlying financing activities of the Group.
enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same Taxation taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax The taxation effect of Other items, the effect of the change in rates of assets and liabilities on a net basis.
taxation on deferred tax and tax adjustments in respect of previous years Other items are shown within Other items in order to enhance Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, the understanding of the underlying tax position of the Group.
providing for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the The prior year comparatives have been reclassified to include amounts used for taxation purposes.
in Other items the revenue, results and associated taxation of businesses that have been identified as non-core since the signing of In accordance with IAS 12, the following temporary differences are the 2016 Financial Statements.
not provided for: goodwill not deductible for taxation purposes: REVENUE RECOGNITION the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received accounting nor taxable profit: or or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent and customer rebates, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
The Group that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future and principally earns revenue from the distribution of construction the Group is able to control the reversal.
products and is able to recognise revenue on receipt of the goods The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected by the customer.
Customer rebates are accounted for as a separate manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets component of the sales transaction in which they are granted.
A and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the portion of the fair value of the consideration received is allocated to balance sheet date.
customer rebates and recognised in the period as earned.
Wherever revenue is generated from a contract to provide services, it is A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the specific probable that future taxable profits will be available against which transaction and assessed on the basis of the actual service provided the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
SUPPLIER REBATES Supplier rebate income is significant to the Groups result, with a SHARE-BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS substantial proportion of purchases covered by rebate agreements.
The Group issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments share options.
Share options are measured at fair value at the date of grant based on the Groups estimate of the number 108 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair value determined is then BORROWING COSTS expensed in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily equity-settled share options or in liabilities cash-settled share take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use options.
The fair value of the options is measured using the Blackor sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such a time as Scholes option pricing model.
the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Consolidated Income The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
actual number of share options that vest.
For equity-settled share options, at each balance sheet date the Group revises its estimate of Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic the number of share options expected to vest as a result of the effect benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the Consolidated reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest Income Statement such that the cumulative expense reflects the rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount on initial recognition.
For cash-settled share options, a liability is recognised for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
LEASES AND HIRE PURCHASE AGREEMENTS At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the The cost of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with agreements is capitalised with an equivalent liability categorised as any changes in fair value recognised in the Consolidated Income appropriate under current liabilities or non-current liabilities.
The asset Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to liabilities.
is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or its useful life.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Rentals under finance leases and hire purchase agreements are The Group recognises intangible assets at cost less accumulated apportioned between finance costs and reduction of the lease amortisation and impairment losses.
The Group recognises two types obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the of intangible asset: acquired and purchased.
Acquired intangible assets remaining balance of the liability.
The finance costs are charged in arise as a result of applying IFRS 3 Business Combinations which arriving at profit before tax.
requires the separate recognition of intangible assets from goodwill on Rentals under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated all business combinations.
Purchased intangible assets relate primarily Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
to software that is separable from any associated hardware.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability.
The aggregate useful economic lives as follows: benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense Current estimate of on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Amortisation period useful life Customer relationships Life of the relationship 7.4 years INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost including an appropriate Non-compete contracts Life of the contract 3.0 years proportion of attributable overheads, supplier rebates and discounts Computer software Useful life of the software 3.0-10.0 years and net realisable value.
The cost formula used in measuring inventories is either a weighted average cost, or a first in first out Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, with basis, depending on the most appropriate method for each amortisation commencing once the assets are ready for their particular business.
Net realisable value is based on estimated normal selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred up to completion and disposal.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where Property, plant and equipment is shown at original cost to the Group appropriate.
less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS the estimated residual value of property, plant and equipment on a Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the reporting date.
Stage of Current estimate of useful life completion is normally measured by the proportion that contract Freehold buildings 50 years costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the Leasehold buildings Period of lease stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive Plant and machinery including motor payments are recognised only to the extent that the amount can be vehicles 3-8 years or length of lease measured reliably and its receipt is considered probable.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated Freehold land is not depreciated.
reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract Residual values, which are based on market rates, are reassessed costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, with depreciation charged on the same basis as all other assets once When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total those assets are ready for their intended use.
contract revenue, the total expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS Statement of Significant Accounting Policies When contract costs incurred to date plus recognised profits less assessment on the basis that the insurance is not similar to the recognised losses exceed progress billings, the surplus is shown as receivables.
The Group has elected to recognise cash inflows from amounts due from construction contract customers.
For contracts the sale of factored receivables as an operating cashflow.
where progress billings exceed contract costs incurred to date plus FINANCIAL LIABILITIES recognised profits less recognised losses, the surplus is shown as Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair amounts due to construction contract customers.
value through profit or loss or other financial liabilities.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are initially Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits measured and subsequently stated at fair value, with any resultant with an original maturity of three months or less.
gain or loss recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral net gain or loss recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement part of the Groups cash management are included as a component incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability.
of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the Consolidated Other financial liabilities including trade and other payables are Cash Flow Statement.
initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are Cash held but not available for use by the Group is disclosed as subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest restricted cash within Note 19. rate method.
When determining the fair value of financial liabilities, the expected FINANCIAL ASSETS future cash flows are discounted using an appropriate interest rate.
Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or loans and receivables.
The classification Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities depends on the nature and purpose of the financial asset and is or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual determined at the time of initial recognition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS measured and subsequently stated at fair value, with any resultant The Group uses derivative financial instruments including interest gain or loss recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, cross-currency determining the fair value of financial assets, the expected future swaps and commodity hedging instruments to hedge its exposure to cash flows are discounted using an appropriate discount rate.
foreign currency exchange, interest rate and fuel price risks arising Loans and receivables are measured initially at fair value and then from operational and financing activities.
In accordance with its subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate Treasury Policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial method.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts instruments for trading purposes.
However, any derivative financial estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net for as trading instruments.
Derivatives are classified as non-current carrying amount on initial recognition.
assets or non-current liabilities if the remaining maturity of the derivatives is more than 12 months and they are not expected to be Financial assets including trade receivables are assessed for otherwise realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are indicators of impairment on an ongoing basis.
Financial assets are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the Derivative financial instruments are recognised immediately at fair financial asset, the estimated future cash flows have been negatively value.
Subsequent to their initial recognition, derivative financial impacted.
When there is objective evidence of impairment, appropriate instruments are then stated at their fair value.
The fair value of allowances are made for estimated irrecoverable amounts based upon derivative financial instruments is derived from mark-to-market expected future cash flows discounted by an appropriate interest valuations obtained from the Groups relationship banks.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is Unless hedge accounting is achieved, the gain or loss on reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately and is exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced included as part of finance income or finance costs, together with through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is other fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, considered to be uncollectible it is written off against the allowance within the column of the Consolidated Income Statement entitled account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are Other items.
credited to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, no longer qualifies decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event for hedge accounting, or when the Group revokes the hedging occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously relationship.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging recognised impairment loss is reversed through the Consolidated instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast Income Statement to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is amortised cost would have been had the impairment not transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the Group documents Trade receivables that are factored out to banks and other financial the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged institutions without recourse to the Group are derecognised at the item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy point of factoring as the risks and rewards of the receivables have for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Furthermore, at been fully transferred.
In assessing whether the receivables qualify the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group for derecognition the Group has considered the receivables and documents whether the hedging instruments that are used in receivable insurance contracts as two separate units of account.
hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair Therefore the insurance is not included as part of the derecognition values or cash flows of the hedged items.
110 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six Where the benefits of the plan are improved, the portion of the FAIR VALUE HEDGES increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement, at the earlier hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the of when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs and when the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the Consolidated entity recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
Income Statement within Other items.
Fair value gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative financial instruments are recognised The full service cost of the pension schemes is charged to operating immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement within Other items.
Net finance costs on defined benefit pension schemes are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Discretionary CASH FLOW HEDGES contributions made by employees or third parties reduce service When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge costs upon payment of these contributions into the plan.
of the variability in cash flows associated with a recognised asset Any actuarial gain or loss arising is charged through the Consolidated or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective Statement of Comprehensive Income and is made up of the part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is difference between the expected returns on assets and those recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive actually achieved, any changes in the actuarial assumptions for Income i. e. equity.
When the forecast transaction subsequently demographics and any changes in the financial assumptions used in results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial the valuations.
liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of The pension scheme deficit is recognised in full and presented on the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The associated deferred subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or tax asset is recognised within non-current assets in the Consolidated financial liability, the associated gains or losses that were previously Balance Sheet.
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income are reclassified into the Consolidated Income Statement in the For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability Consolidated Income Statement in respect of pension costs and assumed affects the Consolidated Income Statement.
other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and For cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of any gain or loss is contributions actually paid are included within either accruals or recognised immediately as fair value gains or losses on derivative prepayments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
financial instruments and is included as part of finance income or finance costs within the column of the Consolidated Income DIVIDENDS Statement entitled Other items.
Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors that have not been paid by the end of the year are not recognised in the Financial HEDGE OF NET INVESTMENT IN FOREIGN Statements until they have been approved by the Shareholders at the OPERATIONS Annual General Meeting.
The portion of any gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be SEGMENT REPORTING an effective hedge is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Group identifies Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective portion of any gain or loss its reportable segments based on the components of the business is recognised immediately as fair value gains or losses on derivative on which financial information is regularly reviewed by the Groups financial instruments and is included as part of finance income Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to assess performance or finance costs within the column of the Consolidated Income and make decisions about how resources are allocated.
For SIG, Statement entitled Other items.
Gains and losses deferred in the the CODM is considered to be the Group Executive Committee.
hedging and translation reserve are recognised immediately in Following certain operational and strategic changes undertaken the Consolidated Income Statement when foreign operations are during the year, the Group has concluded that the appropriate disposed of.
reported operating segments are SIG Distribution, SIG Exteriors, Ireland & Other UK, France, Germany and Other Europe, compared PROPERTY PROVISIONS to UK & Ireland and Mainland Europe in prior years.
The prior year The Group makes provisions in respect of onerous leasehold comparatives have been restated to expand UK & Ireland and property contracts and leasehold dilapidation commitments where Mainland Europe into the constituent components consistent with it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required to the current year presentation.
The constituent operating segments settle a present obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is of Other Europe have been aggregated as they have similar products the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present and services, types of customer, methods of distribution and obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and economic characteristics and do not meet the quantitative thresholds uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Provisions are measured for separate disclosure.
The economic characteristics that have been at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to assessed include long term growth rates and expected long term settle the obligation.
PENSION SCHEMES SIG operates six defined benefit pension schemes.
The Groups net obligation in respect of these defined benefit pension schemes is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in both current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted using an appropriate discount rate to determine its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six FINANCIALS
