GLOSSARY AND DEFINITIONS BUSINESS, FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate.
Centinela Minera Centinela S. A. a 70%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile Alto Maipo Alto Maipo SpA is incorporated in Chile and that holds the Centinela Concentrates owns the Alto Maipo hydroelectric project in formerly Esperanza and Centinela Cathodes the upper section of the Maipo River in Chile.
The Group disposed of its 40% interest in Alto Maipo in 2017.
Centinela Mining Copper district located in the Antofagasta District Region of Chile, where Centinela is located.
AMSA Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile, CGU Cash-Generating Unit.
which acts as the corporate centre for the Chilean peso Chilean currency.
Comex A commodity exchange that trades metals Annual Report The Annual Report and Financial Statements such as gold, silver, copper and aluminium.
Companies Act Principal legislation for United Kingdom Antucoya Minera Antucoya S. A. a 70%-owned 2006 company law.
subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile.
Continental water Water that comes from the interior of land ATI Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. a masses including rain, snow, streams, rivers, 30%-owned associate of the Group lakes and groundwater.
incorporated in Chile, which operates the port Corporate The UK Corporate Governance Code is a set in the city of Antofagasta.
Governance Code ofprinciples of good corporate governance, Australian dollars Australian currency.
most of which have their own more detailed Banco fide Chile A commercial bank that is a subsidiary of provisions published by the Financial Reporting Quienco.
Council FRC, most recently updated in 2016.
Barrick Gold Barrick Gold Corporation, incorporated in Directors The Directors of the Company.
Joint venture partner of the Group Duluth Duluth Metals Limited, a wholly-owned inboth Zaldvar and Tethyan.
subsidiary of Antofagasta plc acquired on 28 Capex Capital expenditure.
January 2015, through which the Group holds the Twin Metals Project.
Cash costs A measure of the cost of operating production expressed in terms of US dollars per pound EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation ofpayable copper produced.
Cash costs are and Amortisation.
stated net of by-product credits and include EIA Environmental Impact Assessment.
tolling charges for concentrates for Los El Arrayn Parque Elico el Arrayn SpA, a 30%-owned Pelambres and Centinela.
Cash costs exclude associate of the Group that operates a depreciation, financial income and expenses, wind-power plant providing up to 40MW hedging gains and losses, exchange gains and ofelectricity to Los Pelambres.
Encuentro Copper oxide and sulphide deposit in the CCU Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. a Centinela Mining District.
brewing company and associate of Quienco.
Energa Andina Energa Andina S. A. a 50%-owned joint CDP Carbon Disclosure Project.
venture entity of the Group incorporated in Chile.
206 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Esperanza Sur Copper deposit in the Centinela Mining District.
Key Management Persons with authority and responsibility for Personnel planning, directing and controlling the activities EU European Union.
FCA Financial Conduct Authority, a UK KPI Key performance indicator.
LBMA London Bullion Market Association.
FCAB Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, thecorporate name of the Groups LIBOR London Inter Bank Offered Rate.
FTSE All-Share A  weighted index Los Pelambres Minera Los Pelambres S. A. a 60%-owned Index representing the performance of all eligible subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile.
companies listed on the London Stock LSE London Stock Exchange.
LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice LTIP Long-term Incentive Plan in which the Groups orGenerally Accepted Accounting Principles, CEO, Executive Committee members and other acollection of commonly-followed accounting senior managers participate.
rules and standards for financial reporting.
MARC Maintenance and Repair Contract.
A maintenance contract under which the Government The Government of the Republic of Chile.
service provider commits to a certain level Hedge accounting Accounting treatment for derivative financial ofavailability of the equipment during the term instruments permitted under IAS 39 Financial of the contract.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, Marubeni Marubeni Corporation, the Groups 30% which recognises the offsetting effects on partner in Centinela and Antucoya.
Marubeni profit or loss of changes in the fair values also holds an effective 8.75% interest in Los ofahedging instrument and the hedged item.
Michilla Minera Michilla S. A. a 99.9%-owned IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile, ICMM International Council on Metals and Mining.
closed at the end of 2015 and sold in November 2016.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
PEP Politically Exposed Person, an individual who holds or has held a prominent public position IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
in a national or international organisation Inversiones Inversiones Hornitos S. A. a 40%-owned within the last year.
Hornitos associate of the Group incorporated in Chile, Platts A provider of energy and metals information which owns the 150MW Hornitos and source of benchmark price assessments.
thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones inChiles Antofagasta Region.
IVA Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean Value Added Tax Chilean VAT.
co. uk 207 GLOSSARY AND DEFINITIONS CONTINUED Provisional pricing A sales term in several copper and SAP Systems, Applications and Products.
An ERP molybdenum concentrate sale agreements Enterprise Resource Planning system and andcathodes sale agreements that provides data management programme.
for provisional pricing of sales at the time of SERNAGEOMIN Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera, a shipment, with final pricing being based on the government agency that provides geological monthly average LME copper price or monthly and technical advice and regulates the mining average molybdenum price for specific future industry in Chile.
periods, normally ranging from 30 to 180 days SHFE Shanghai Futures Exchange.
after delivery to the customer.
For the SONAMI Sociedad Nacional fide Minera.
Institution that purposes of IAS 39, the provisional sale is represents the mining activity in Chile, for considered to contain an embedded derivative large, medium and small scale, metallic and ie the forward contract for which the non-metallic companies.
provisional sale is subsequently adjusted that Sterling Pounds Sterling, UK currency.
is separated from the host contract ie the sale of metals contained in the concentrate or SVS Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros cathode at the provisional invoice price less deChile, the Chilean securities regulator.
Tesoro Central and {Copper oxide open pits forming part of the Quienco Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and Tesoro Noreste Centinela operation. ]
industrial group listed on the Santiago Stock Tethyan Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50-50 Exchange controlled by a foundation in which joint venture with Barrick Gold, incorporated the Luksic family have interests,.
Ramsar International treaty for the conservation TSR Total Shareholder Return, being the movement Convention andsustainable utilisation of wetlands.
in the Companys share price plus reinvested RCA Resolucin fide Calificacin Ambiental, dividends.
Twin Metals A copper, nickel and platinum group metals Realised prices Realised prices are determined by comparing Minnesota Project underground-mining project located in revenue gross of TC RCs for concentrate Minnesota, US.
Realised copper UK United Kingdom.
prices differ from market prices mainly UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority, part of because the Groups sales agreements theFCA.
generally provide for provisional pricing at the US United States.
time of shipment with final pricing based on the average market price US dollar United States currency.
Realised prices also reflect Zaldvar Compaa Minera Zaldvar SpA, a 50-50 joint the impact of realised gains or losses on venture with Barrick Gold, which operates the commodity derivative instruments.
Zaldvar copper mine in Chile.
208 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MINING INDUSTRY Brownfield project A development or exploration project in JORC The Australasian Joint Ore thevicinity of an existing operation.
By-products Products obtained as a result of copper ktpd Thousand tonnes per day.
Los Pelambres and Centinela Life-of-Mine The remaining life of a mine expressed in concentrates Concentrates receive credit for the gold and LOM years, calculated by reference to its current silver content in the copper concentrate defined reserves and the rate at which ore sold.
Los Pelambres also produces isexpected to be extracted.
Mineral resources Material of intrinsic economic interest Concentrate The product of a physical concentration occurring in such form and quantity that process, such as flotation or gravity thereare reasonable prospects for eventual concentration, which involves separating economic extraction.
Mineral resources oreminerals from unwanted waste rock.
arestated inclusive of ore reserves, as Concentrates require subsequent processing definedbyJORC.
such as smelting or leaching to break down MW Megawatts one million watts.
or dissolve the ore minerals and obtain the Net cash cost Gross cash costs less by-product credits.
Open pit Mine working or excavation that is open to Contained copper The proportion or quantity of copper contained thesurface.
in a given quantity of ore or concentrate.
Ore Rock from which metal s or mineral s can Copper cathode Refined copper produced by electrolytic beeconomically and legally extracted.
refining of impure copper using electrowinning.
Ore grade The relative quantity, or percentage, of metal content in an ore body or quantity of Cut-off grade The lowest grade of mineralised material processed ore. considered economic to process and used Ore reserves Part of Mineral Resources for which inthe calculation of ore reserves and appropriate assessments have been carried mineralresources.
out to demonstrate that at a given date Flotation A process of separation by which chemicals extraction could be reasonably justified.
These insolution are added to materials, some of include consideration of and modification by which are attracted to bubbles and float, while realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, others sink.
This results in the production economic, marketing, legal, environmental, ofconcentrate.
Grade A Highest-quality copper cathode LME Oxide ores Oxide ore occurs on the weathered surface copper cathode registered and certified in the case of ofore-rich lodes and normally results in the Centinela Cathodes.
production of copper cathodes through a Greenfield project The development or exploration of a new heap-leaching process.
project at a previously undeveloped site.
Payable copper The proportion or quantity of contained copper Heap-leaching or A process for the recovery of copper from for which payment is received after leaching ore, generally oxides.
The crushed material is metallurgical deduction.
laid on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached by uniformly trickling gravity fed chemical solution through the beds to ponds.
The metal is then recovered from the solution through the SX-EW process.
co. uk 209 GLOSSARY AND DEFINITIONS CONTINUED Porphyry A large body of rock which contains Tailings dam Construction used to deposit the rock waste disseminated chalcopyrite and other sulphide which remains as a result of the concentrating minerals.
Such a deposit is mined in bulk on a process after the recoverable minerals have large scale, generally in open pits, for copper been extracted in concentrate form.
TC RCs Treatment and refining charges, being terms Run-of-Mine A process for the recovery of copper from used to set the smelting and refining charge ROM ore, typically used for low-grade ores.
ormargin for processing copper concentrate Themined, uncrushed ore is leached with and normally set either on an annual or achemical solution.
The metal is then spotbasis.
recovered from the solution through the Tolling charges Charges or margins for converting concentrate SX-EW process.
These include TC RCs, Stockpile Material extracted and piled for future use.
price participation and price sharing for copper concentrate and roasting charges for SX-EW Solvent extraction and electrowinning.
Aprocess for extracting metal from an ore andproducing pure metal.
First the metal is Tonne Metric tonne.
leached into solution, the resulting solution tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference to the isthen purified in the solvent-extraction quantity of ore processed over a given period process before being treated in an of time, expressed as a daily average.
electrochemical process electrowinning Underground mine Natural or man-made excavation under torecover copper cathodes.
Sulphide ore Sulphide ore comes from unweathered parent ore and normally results in the production of concentrate through a flotation process which then requires smelting and refining to produce copper cathodes.
