ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES At 31 December 2017 INTRODUCTION An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates presented in this report content can be estimated with a reasonable level of confidence.
It is based comply with the requirements of the Australasian Code for Reporting of on exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 2012 edition the appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, JORC Code which has been used by the Group as minimum standard for workings and drill holes.
The locations are too widely or inappropriately the preparation and disclosure of the information contained herein.
The spaced to confirm geological and or grade continuity but are spaced closely definitions and categories of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are set enough for continuity to be assumed.
A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which The information on ore reserves and mineral resources was prepared by or tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral under the supervision of Competent Persons as defined in the JORC Code.
The Competent Persons have sufficient experience relevant to the style of content can be estimated with a high level of confidence.
It is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, which they are undertaking.
The Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in this report of the matters based on their information in the form pits, workings and drill holes.
The locations are spaced closely enough to confirm geological and grade continuity.
and context in which it appears.
The Competent Person for Exploration Results and Mineral Resources is Aquiles Gonzalez CP, Chile, Manager of An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or Mineral Resource Evaluation for Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
The Competent Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for Person for Ore Reserves is Murray Canfield P. Eng.
Ontario, Technical losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate Manager of Mining for Antofagasta Minerals S. A. assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, The Groups operations and projects are subject to a comprehensive marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These programme of audits aimed at providing assurance in respect of ore assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reserves and mineral resources estimates.
The audits are conducted by reasonably be justified.
Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing suitably qualified Competent Persons from within a particular division, confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
another division of the Company or from independent consultants.
A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates represent full reserves and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes and resources, with the Groups attributable share for each mine shown in diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the the Attributable Tonnage column.
The Groups economic interest in each material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried mine is disclosed in the notes following the estimates on pages 204 to 205. out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed The totals in the table may include some small apparent differences as the mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and specific individual figures have not been rounded.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of DEFINITIONS AND CATEGORIES OF ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
RESOURCES A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of material of Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments specific geological evidence and knowledge.
Mineral Resources are subdemonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated be justified.
An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a low level of confidence.
It is inferred from geological evidence and assumed but not verified geological and or grade continuity.
It is based on information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes which may be limited or of uncertain quality and reliability.
co. uk 203 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES CONTINUED At 31 December 2017 NOTES TO ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES The ore reserves mentioned in this report were determined considering specific cut-off grades for each mine and using a long-term copper price of $3.00 lb $3.10 in 2016, $9.00 lb molybdenum unchanged from 2016 and $1,250 oz gold unchanged from 2016, unless otherwise noted.
These same values have been used for copper equivalent CuEq estimates, where appropriate.
In order to ensure that the stated resources represent mineralisation that has reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction JORC code the resources are enclosed within pit shells that were optimised based on measured, indicated and inferred resources and considering a copper price of $3.60 lb unchanged from 2016.
Mineralisation estimated outside these pit shells is not included in the resource figures.
Group policy on auditing of resource and reserve estimates is that prior to first publication, an independent external audit is done.
For 2017, this is the case for the newly incorporated Brujulina and Sierra resources.
External audits are also done on resources and reserves for any material changes incorporation of a significant number of drillhole information, for instance or every three to five years, whichever comes first.
In 2017 external audits were carried out on the 2016 ore reserve estimates at Pelambres, Centinela, Zaldivar and Antucoya Encuentro Oxides was audited prior to first publication in 2015.
All reserve estimates were found to comply with the JORC Code 2012.
All the resource models that support the reserve estimates have been audited as per Group policy.
A Los Pelambres Los Pelambres is 60% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.35% copper, while cut-off grade applied for mineral reserves is variable over 0.35% copper.
For 2017 the mineral resource model has been updated with 195 drill holes for a total of 59,000 metres.
The decrease of 64 million tonnes in ore reserves is due principally to depletion in the period and reflects the remaining capacity of the existing tailing dams, limiting the amount of mineral resource that can be converted into ore reserves.
Mineral resources decreased overall by a net 60 million tonnes, including depletion.
Due to the new drilling to improve the quality of resources within the five-year period 2018-2024: measured resources increased by 95 millon tonnes and indicated resources decreased by 97 millon tonnes while inferred resources decreased by 58 million tonnes.
B Centinela Concentrates & Cathodes Centinela is 70% owned by the Group and consists of Centinela Concentrates Esperanza Esperanza Sur, mostly sulphide porphyry deposits and Centinela Cathodes Tesoro Central, an oxide deposit the oxide portion of the Mirador deposit operations.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore reserves for Centinela Concentrates is 0.15% equivalent copper, with 0.15% copper used as a cut-off grade for mineral resources.
The cut-off grade used for the Centinela Cathodes deposits is as follows: Tesoro Central deposit is 0.41% copper for ore reserves and 0.30% for mineral resources: the Mirador Oxides deposit is 0.30% copper for ore reserves and 0.15% for mineral resources.
The cut-off grade applied to oxides contained in the Esperanza deposit processed separately as Run-of-Mine leach, or ROM is 0.20% copper for ore reserves and 0.15% copper for mineral resources.
Esperanza Sur ore reserves have increased by a net 72 million tonnes due to a change in the cut-off grade criteria, incorporating molybdenum and silver in the copper equivalent calculation, while mineral resources decreased by a net 114 million tonnes.
The decrease is mainly in Esperanza and Esperanza Sur deposits due to updates to the economic parameters and cost model in the period.
The Centinela Cathodes ore reserves are made up of 73.6 million tonnes at 0.58% copper of heap leach ore and 117.9 million tonnes at 0.28% copper of ROM ore. C Encuentro Encuentro is 100% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources for both oxides and sulphides is 0.15% copper.
The oxide portion of the porphyry copper deposit is part of the Encuentro Oxides project currently feed into the Centinela Cathodes operation.
Ore Reserves decrease overall by a net 3 million tonnes due to depletion from start up of operations in 2017.
Mineral resources decreased overall by a net 41 million tonnes, including depletion, due principally to updates to the cost model.
D Antucoya Antucoya is 70% owned by the Group.
The ore reserve cut-off grade is calculated using an economic formula with a minimum of 0.16% copper, while the cut-off grade for mineral resources is 0.15% copper.
Despite depletion in the period of 40 million tonnes, mineral resources have decreased by 4 million tonnes mainly due to changes in economic assumptions and an updated pit design.
E Polo Sur Polo Sur is 100% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources for both oxides and sulphides is 0.20% copper.
For 2017 the resource model has not been updated.
F Penacho Blanco Penacho Blanco is 51% owned by the Group.
G Mirador Mirador is 100% owned by the Group.
A portion of Mirador Oxides is subject to an agreement between the Group and Centinela, whereby Centinela purchased the rights to mine the oxide ore reserves within an identified area.
The ore reserves and mineral resources for Mirador Oxides subject to the agreement with Centinela are included in the Centinela Cathodes section.
The resources not subject to the agreement are reported in this section.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources for oxides is 0.15% copper and for sulphides is 0.20% copper.
For 2017 the resource model has been refined without additional drill holes, increasing in 13 million tonnes.
H Llano The Llano deposit is covered by AMSA and Centinela mining tenements shared in different proportions, with the Group owning 70.8% of the resource.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.15% copper.
For 2017 mineral resources increased overall by a net 10 million tonnes, due to updates to the recovery parameters and refinement without additional drill holes.
I Paleocanal The Paleocanal deposit is covered by AMSA and Centinela mining tenements shared in different proportions, with the Group owning 89.2% of the resource.
For 2017 mineral resources increased overall by a net 5 million tonnes, due to updates to the recovery parameters and refinement without additional drill holes.
206 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 204 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES CONTINUED At 31 December 2017 NOTES TO ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES ESTIMATES J Los Volcanes The ore reserves mentioned in this report were determined considering specific cut-off grades for each mine and using a long-term copper price of $3.00 lb Los Volcanes is 51% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore reserves and mineral resources is 0.20% copper.
For 2017 $3.10 in 2016, $9.00 lb molybdenum unchanged from 2016 and $1,250 oz gold unchanged from 2016, unless otherwise noted.
These same values have the mineral resource model has not been updated.
been used for copper equivalent CuEq estimates, where appropriate.
K Brujulina In order to ensure that the stated resources represent mineralisation that has reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction JORC code the Brujulina is 51% owned by the Group and was removed from the 2016 Other Mineral Inventory section and added to the 2017 Mineral Resource table.
The resources are enclosed within pit shells that were optimised based on measured, indicated and inferred resources and considering a copper price of cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.30% copper.
L Sierra Group policy on auditing of resource and reserve estimates is that prior to first publication, an independent external audit is done.
External audits are also done on resources and reserves for any material changes incorporation of a significant Sierra is 100% owned by the Group: at the end 2016 the Group acquired the Sierra project.
In 2017 a new resource model is built and reviewed by an number of drillhole information, for instance or every three to five years, whichever comes first.
In 2017 external audits were carried out on the 2016 ore reserve external auditor.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.30% copper.
estimates at Pelambres, Centinela, Zaldivar and Antucoya Encuentro Oxides was audited prior to first publication in 2015.
All reserve estimates were found to M Twin Metals Minnesota LLC comply with the JORC Code 2012.
"Twin Metals Minnesota LLC ""Twin Metals"" is owned 100% by the Group."
"A Los Pelambres Twin Metals has a 70% interest in the Birch Lake Joint Venture ""BLJV"" which holds the Birch Lake, Spruce Road and Maturi Southwest deposits, as well as Los Pelambres is 60% owned by the Group."
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.35% copper, while cut-off grade applied a portion of the main Maturi deposit.
With these interests taken into consideration, Twin Metals owns 82.9% of the resource.
The resource estimate remains for mineral reserves is variable over 0.35% copper.
The decrease of 64 million tonnes in ore reserves is due principally to depletion in the period and reflects the remaining capacity of the existing tailing dams, The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.3% copper, which when combined with credits from nickel, platinum, palladium and limiting the amount of mineral resource that can be converted into ore reserves.
Mineral resources decreased overall by a net 60 million tonnes, including gold, is deemed appropriate for an underground operation.
In the resource table TPM Total Precious Metals refers to the sum of platinum, palladium and depletion.
Due to the new drilling to improve the quality of resources within the five-year period 2018-2024: measured resources increased by 95 millon gold values in grammes per tonne.
The TPM value of 0.56 g tonne for the Maturi resource estimate is made up of 0.15 g tonne platinum, 0.34 g tonne tonnes and indicated resources decreased by 97 millon tonnes while inferred resources decreased by 58 million tonnes.
The TPM value of 0.30 g tonne for the Maturi Southwest resource estimate is made up of 0.08 g tonne platinum, 0.17 B Centinela Concentrates & Cathodes g tonne palladium and 0.05 g tonne gold.
The TPM value of 0.70 g tonne for the Birch Lake resource estimate is made up of 0.19 g tonne platinum, 0.41 Centinela is 70% owned by the Group and consists of Centinela Concentrates Esperanza Esperanza Sur, mostly sulphide porphyry deposits and Centinela Cathodes g tonne palladium and 0.10 g tonne gold.
The Spruce Road resource estimate does not include TPM values as they were not assayed.
Tesoro Central, an oxide deposit the oxide portion of the Mirador deposit operations.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore reserves for Centinela On March 8, 2016, the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior issued a legal opinion concluding that the Bureau of Land Management BLM has discretion Concentrates is 0.15% equivalent copper, with 0.15% copper used as a cut-off grade for mineral resources.
The cut-off grade used for the Centinela Cathodes deposits is as to deny Twin Metals application for renewal of federal mineral leases MNES-1352 and MNES-1353.
The United States Forest Service USFS declined to follows: Tesoro Central deposit is 0.41% copper for ore reserves and 0.30% for mineral resources: the Mirador Oxides deposit is 0.30% copper for ore reserves and 0.15% consent to renewal of the leases on December 14, 2016, and BLM rejected Twin Metals application to renew the leases the next day.
The cut-off grade applied to oxides contained in the Esperanza deposit processed separately as Run-of-Mine leach, or ROM is 0.20% copper for ore On September 12, 2016, Twin Metals filed a complaint in the U. S. District Court in Minnesota against the United States, the U. S. Department of the Interior reserves and 0.15% copper for mineral resources.
Esperanza Sur ore reserves have increased by a net 72 million tonnes due to a change in the cut-off grade criteria, and the BLM.
Following the USFS withholding of consent and BLMs denial of renewal, Twin Metals filed an amended complaint on January 3, 2017, adding incorporating molybdenum and silver in the copper equivalent calculation, while mineral resources decreased by a net 114 million tonnes.
The decrease is mainly in Esperanza the U. S. Department of Agriculture and the USFS as defendants.
and Esperanza Sur deposits due to updates to the economic parameters and cost model in the period.
The Centinela Cathodes ore reserves are made up of 73.6 million tonnes at 0.58% copper of heap leach ore and 117.9 million tonnes at 0.28% copper of ROM ore. On December 22 2017 the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior issued a new legal opinion concluding that the BLM did not have discretion to deny Twin Metals application for renewal of federal mineral leases MNES-1352 and MNES-1353.
Immediately after, Twin Metals dismissed its lawsuit filed in the U. S. C Encuentro District Court in Minnesota against the BLM and USFS, with immediate effect.
Currently there is no pending litigation.
Encuentro is 100% owned by the Group.
It is expected that shortly after the issuing of the new legal opinion, the BLM will reinstate the federal mineral leases MNES-1352 and MNES-1353 and the The oxide portion of the porphyry copper deposit is part of the Encuentro Oxides project currently feed into the Centinela Cathodes operation.
Ore Reserves renewal process should resume and continue.
decrease overall by a net 3 million tonnes due to depletion from start up of operations in 2017.
N Zaldvar Zaldivar is 50% owned by the Group.
Cut-off grades are calculated using an economic formula which is equivalent to approximately 0.20% copper.
For 2017 D Antucoya the mineral resource model has not been updated.
Ore Reserves have decreased by 33 million tonnes mainly due to depletion.
Mineral Resources have Antucoya is 70% owned by the Group.
The ore reserve cut-off grade is calculated using an economic formula with a minimum of 0.16% copper, while the decreased by 17 million tonnes, including depletion, due to positive changes in economic assumptions and changes to the geo-metallurgical model.
cut-off grade for mineral resources is 0.15% copper.
O Other Mineral Inventory In addition to the Mineral Resources noted above, the Group has interests in other deposits located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, some of them E Polo Sur containing gold and or molybdenum.
At the moment they are in exploration or in the process of resource estimation.
The potential quantity and grade of each Polo Sur is 100% owned by the Group.
of the deposits is conceptual in nature, there has been insufficient exploration to define these deposits as mineral resources, and it is uncertain if further For 2017 the resource model has not been updated.
exploration will result in the determination of a mineral resource.
These include: F Penacho Blanco Penacho Blanco is 51% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources for both oxides and sulphides is 0.20% i In the Michilla District copper.
The Rencoret deposit, owned 100% by the Group.
Ownership G Mirador Tonnes range Number Total interest Mineral Deposit million tonnes Grade range % cu drill holes metres % Mirador is 100% owned by the Group.
The ore reserves and mineral resources for Mirador Oxides subject to the Rencoret 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8300 100 agreement with Centinela are included in the Centinela Cathodes section.
The cut-off Total 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8300 grade applied to the determination of mineral resources for oxides is 0.15% copper and for sulphides is 0.20% copper.
P Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors The Group has an approximately 51% interest in two indirect subsidiaries, Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin H Llano Investors, which own a number of copper exploration properties in Chiles Antofagasta Region and Coquimbo Region.
These include, among others, The Llano deposit is covered by AMSA and Centinela mining tenements shared in different proportions, with the Group owning 70.8% of the resource.
The Penacho Blanco, Los Volcanes and Brujulina.
The remaining approximately 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors is owned by Mineralinvest cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.15% copper.
For 2017 mineral resources increased overall by a net 10 million tonnes, due Establishment Mineralinvest, a company controlled by the Luksic family.
to updates to the recovery parameters and refinement without additional drill holes.
Further details are set out in Note 34 c to the financial statements.
