FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and with those parts of the Companies for those goods or services.
The standard introduces a five-step process for Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
For these purposes, applying this principle, which includes guidance in respect of identifying the IFRS comprise the standards issued by the International Accounting Standards performance obligations under the contract with the customer, allocating Board IASB and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC that have been the transaction price between the performance obligations, and recognising endorsed by the European Union EU.
revenue as the entity satisfies the performance obligations.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The Group has concluded its evaluation of the impact of IFRS 15, and Details of the factors which have been taken into account in assessing the determined that the only relevant impact for the Group relates to the shipping Groups going concern status are set out within the Risk Management Framework section of the Strategic Report.
of material sold to customers.
The Group sells a significant proportion of its products on Cost, Insurance & Freight CIF Incoterms, which means that the Antofagasta plc is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled Group is responsible for shipping the product to a destination port specified by in the United Kingdom at Cleveland House, 33 King Street, London SW1Y 6RJ.
Under IAS 18 Revenue the Group recognised the total contract revenue when the material had been loaded at the port of loading, at which The immediate parent of the Group is Metalinvest Establishment, which is point the legal title and risks and rewards relating to the material passed to controlled by E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
the customer, as well as accruing the related shipping costs at that point.
Under IFRS 15 the shipping service will represent a separate performance The nature of the Group entities operations is mainly related to mining and obligation, and should be recognised separately from the sale of the material exploration activities and rail and road cargo.
when the shipping service has been provided, along with the associated costs.
The impact of this change in the 2017 comparatives to be included within the Significant events during 2017 2018 financial statements will be to increase both 2017 revenues and expenses The Group completed the disposal of its 40% interest in Alto Maipo in by approximately $5 million less than 0.2% of revenue and expenses, with no March 2017 for nil consideration.
An impairment provision was recognised significant impact on net earnings or net assets.
in respect of the carrying value of the Groups investment in Alto Maipo in the 2016 year-end results, and no gain or loss resulted from the completion The Groups copper and molybdenum sale contracts generally provide for of the disposal in the current period.
provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange LME copper price or the Antucoya satisfied the terms of the completion test relating to its project monthly average market molybdenum price for specified future periods.
As financing in December 2017, resulting in the release of the parent explained in more detail below provisional pricing adjustments to revenue will guarantees provided by Antofagasta plc and Marubeni Corporation.
be dealt with under IFRS 9 rather than IFRS 15, and therefore the IFRS 15 rules on variable consideration do not apply to the provisional pricing mechanism of A Adoption of new accounting standards the Groups sales contracts.
The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations became effective in the current reporting period: The standard will be applied in 2018 with retrospective restatement of the prior year comparatives.
Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 12 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 Adoption of this standard is mandatory in 2018.
The standard has been endorsed by the EU.
The application of these standards and interpretations effective for the first time in the current year has had no significant impact on the amounts The Group has concluded its evaluation of the impact of IFRS 9 and reported in these financial statements.
determined that the principal impact of the standard on the Group relates to its commodity price hedging.
Under IAS 39 Financial instruments B Accounting standards issued but not yet effective recognition and measurement the time value element of changes in the fair At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following value of derivative options is excluded from the designated hedging relationship, standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these and is recognised directly in the income statement within other finance items.
financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: Under IFRS 9 we expect to recognise the time value element within other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, therefore reducing IFRS 9, Financial Instruments income statement volatility.
During 2017 an expense of $7.8 million was IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers recognised within other finance items in the income statement in respect IFRS 16, Leases of the time value element of derivative options.
IFRS 17, Insurance Contracts IFRS 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration IFRS 9 introduces an expected credit loss model for impairment of financial IFRIC 23, Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments assets which replaces the incurred loss model used in IAS 39.
This is not Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate expected to have a significant impact on the Group given our credit risk or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 management processes, and the resulting very low level of credit losses.
Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions As explained above, the Groups copper and molybdenum sale contracts Amendments to IFRS 2 generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts final pricing based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange LME Amendments to IFRS 4 copper price or the monthly average market molybdenum price for specified Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation Amendments to IFRS 9 future periods.
Under IAS 39 the final pricing adjustment mechanism represents Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments to IAS 28 an embedded derivative which is separated from the host contract the copper Annual Improvements to three IFRS Standards 20152017 Cycle or molybdenum sales contract and recognised at fair value through profit The Group is continuing to evaluate in detail the potential impact of these or loss.
Under IFRS 9 the receivable asset is measured at fair value through new interpretations, excluding IFRS 15, IFRS 9, IFRS 16. profit or loss which will result in a similar overall impact on the income statement and balance sheet.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Adoption of this standard is mandatory in 2018.
co. uk 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Changes in the Groups ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not Adoption of this standard is mandatory in 2019.
The standard has been result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for endorsed by the EU.
The carrying amounts of the Groups interests and The Groups work on the implementation of the new standard to date has the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their included an analysis of the main impacts of the standard on the Group, an relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount estimation of the likely overall impact on the Groups results and balance by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of sheet, including the impact on the Groups key financial ratios, and the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and commencing a detailed contract review process.
The detailed contract attributed to owners of the Company.
review process and relevant staff training will complete during 2018.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised The standard will result in most of the Groups existing operating leases in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate being accounted for similar to finance leases under the current IAS 17 of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any Leases standard, resulting in the recognition of additional assets within retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets property, plant and equipment in respect of the right of use of the lease including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling assets, and additional lease liabilities.
The operating lease charges currently interests.
When assets of the subsidiary are carried at revalued amounts reflected within operating expenses and EBITDA will be eliminated, and or fair values and the related cumulative gain or loss has been recognised instead depreciation and finance charges will be recognised in respect of in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, the amounts the lease assets and liabilities.
Based on the operating leases in place at previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated 31 December 2017 it is currently estimated that this would result in the in equity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the recognition of additional lease assets within property, plant & equipment and relevant assets i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to additional lease liabilities as at 1 January 2018 of approximately $150 million retained earnings as specified by applicable IFRSs.
The fair value of any in each case.
It is also estimated that this would result in a decrease in investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is annual operating expenses before depreciation and therefore an increase lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent in EBITDA of approximately $90 million, an increase in annual depreciation accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and of approximately $80 million, an increase in finance costs of less than Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition $15 million, and a net impact on profit before tax of less than $10 million.
of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.
The cash flow from operations figure per the cash flow statement will Acquisitions and disposals are treated as explained in Note 2 G relating increase, as currently all cash payments relating to operating leases are to business combinations and goodwill.
included within this line, but under IFRS 16 the payments will be classified either as interest payments or repayment of borrowings.
C Investments in associates The standard will be applied in 2019, and the current expectation is that it An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise will be applied with retrospective restatement of the prior year comparatives.
significant influence, but not control or joint control, through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of that entity.
The 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these A Accounting convention consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost This requires recording the investment initially at cost to the Group and then, convention as modified by the use of fair values to measure certain financial in subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of the investment to instruments, principally provisionally priced sales as explained in Note 2 F reflect the Groups share of the associates results less any impairment and and financial derivative contracts as explained in Note 2 X. any other changes to the associates net assets such as dividends.
When the Group loses control of a former subsidiary but retains an investment in B Basis of consolidation associate in that entity the initial carrying value of the investment in associate The financial statements comprise the consolidated financial statements is recorded at its fair value at that point.
When the Groups share of losses of Antofagasta plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively of an associate exceeds the Groups interest in that associate the Group the Group.
discontinues recognising its share of further losses.
Additional losses Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has control, are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or which is the case when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The consolidated financial D Joint arrangements statements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have flows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating inter-company joint control.
Joint arrangements are accounted depending on the nature balances and transactions.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and of the arrangement.
profit attributable to non-controlling shareholders are presented as Noni Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated accordance with IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures income statement.
Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle ii Joint operations are accounted for recognising directly the assets, their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event obligations, revenues and expenses of the joint operator in the joint of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the nonarrangement.
The assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS.
the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an  basis.
Other types of non-controlling When a Group entity transacts with its joint arrangements, profits and losses interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis resulting from the transactions with the joint arrangements are recognised specified in another IFRS.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of in the Groups consolidated financial statements only to the extent of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition interests in the joint arrangements that are not related to the Group.
plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
138 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 138 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS E Currency translation Dividend income from available-for-sale investments, associates and joint ventures is recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as has been established.
For associates and joint ventures, it is recorded the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
as a decrease of the investment.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
G Business combinations and goodwill Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
functional currency are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
Gains The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair and losses on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of within other finance items.
the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the The presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group the Company is the US dollar.
On consolidation, income statement items in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The results of businesses acquired for entities with a functional currency other than the US dollar are translated during the year are brought into the consolidated financial statements from into US dollars at average rates of exchange.
Balance sheet items are the effective date of acquisition.
The identifiable assets, liabilities and translated at period-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on translation contingent liabilities of a business which can be measured reliably of the net assets of such entities are taken to equity and recorded in a are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Cumulative translation differences Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition arising after the transition date to IFRS are recognised as income or as date.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
expenses in the income statement in the period in which an operation is When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination disposed of.
includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration On consolidation, exchange gains and losses which arise on balances between arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisitionGroup entities are taken to reserves where that balance is, in substance, part date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred of the net investment in a foreign operation, i. e. where settlement is neither in a business combination.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
All other exchange consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are gains and losses on Group balances are dealt with in the income statement.
adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional Fair value adjustments and any goodwill arising on the acquisition of information obtained during the measurement period which cannot a foreign entity are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances at the period-end rate.
that existed at the acquisition date.
F Revenue recognition The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to third parties consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments during the year.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration depends on how the contingent consideration is classified.
Contingent received or receivable, and excludes any applicable sales tax.
consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
This is generally when title and any insurance risk has passed Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39. agreed location or when any services have been provided.
When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously Revenue from mining activities is recorded at the invoiced amounts with an held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the adjustment for provisional pricing at each reporting date, as explained below.
acquisition date i. e. the date when the Group obtains control and the For copper and molybdenum concentrates, which are sold to smelters and resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts roasting plants for further processing, the invoiced amount is the market arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that value of the metal payable by the customer, net of deductions for tolling have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are charges.
Revenue includes amounts from the sale of by-products.
reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports of shipment, with final pricing based on the monthly average London Metal provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Exchange LME copper price or the monthly average market molybdenum Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from one to four see above, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new months after delivery to the customer.
Such a provisional sale contains information obtained about facts and circumstances which existed at the an embedded derivative which is required to be separated from the host acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised contract.
The host contract is the sale of metals contained in the concentrate at that date.
or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted, and the embedded derivative is the forward contract for which the provisional Goodwill arising in a business combination is measured as the excess of sale is subsequently adjusted.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling metal sales together with any related tolling charges are marked-to-market, interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held with adjustments both gains and losses being recorded in revenue in the equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net identifiable assets consolidated income statement and in trade debtors in the balance sheet.
Any goodwill on the acquisition of Forward prices at the period end are used for copper concentrate and subsidiaries is separately disclosed, while any goodwill on the acquisition cathode sales, while period-end average prices are used for molybdenum of associates and joint ventures is included within investments in equity concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
Where the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired exceed the sum of the Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal consideration transferred, the surplus is credited to the profit or loss in the outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that period of acquisition as a bargain purchase gain.
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
co. uk 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED J Intangible assets The Group often enters into earn-in arrangements whereby the Group Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are acquires an interest in a project company in exchange for funding carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment exploration and evaluation expenditure up to a specified level of expenditure losses.
Exploration and mining licences are classified as intangible assets or a specified stage in the life of the project.
Funding is usually conditional when construction of the related mining operation has not yet commenced.
on the achievement of key milestones by the partner.
Typically there is no When construction commences the licences are transferred from intangible consideration transferred or funding liability on the effective date of assets to the mining properties category within property, plant & equipment.
acquisition of the interest in the project company and no goodwill is Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful recognised on this type of transaction.
lives of the intangible assets.
The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect The results of businesses sold during the year are included in the of any changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis.
consolidated financial statements for the period up to the effective date Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives that are acquired separately of disposal.
Gains or losses on disposal are calculated as the difference are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
between the sales proceeds net of expenses and the net assets attributable to the interest which has been sold.
Where a disposal represents Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, the net separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at results attributable to the disposed entity are shown separately in the income the acquisition date which is regarded as their cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and H Exploration and evaluation expenditure accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets Exploration and evaluation costs, other than those incurred in acquiring that are acquired separately.
exploration licences, are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
When a mining project is considered to be commercially viable normally An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic when the project has completed a pre-feasibility study, and the start benefits are expected from use or disposal.
Gains or losses arising from of a feasibility study has been approved all further directly attributable derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between pre-production expenditure is capitalised.
Capitalisation of pre-production the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are expenditure ceases when commercial levels of production are achieved.
recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
Costs incurred in acquiring exploration and mining licences are classified K Property, plant and equipment for as intangible assets when construction of the related mining operation The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs of has not yet commenced.
When construction commences the licences are acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are transferred from intangible assets to the mining properties category within capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the year in which they are property, plant & equipment.
incurred, when a mining project is considered to be commercially viable normally when the project has completed a pre-feasibility study, and the I Stripping costs start of a feasibility study has been approved.
The cost of property, plant Pre-stripping and operating stripping costs are incurred in the course of the and equipment comprises the purchase price and any costs directly development and operation of open-pit mining operations.
attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary Pre-stripping costs relate to the removal of waste material as part of the for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended.
Once a project has initial development of an open-pit, in order to allow access to the ore body.
been established as commercially viable, related development expenditure These costs are capitalised within mining properties within property, plant is capitalised.
This includes costs incurred in preparing the site for mining and equipment.
The capitalised costs are depreciated once production operations, including pre-stripping costs.
Capitalisation ceases when the commences on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of mine is capable of commercial production, with the exception of ore extracted in the year compared with total proven and probable reserves development costs which give rise to a future benefit.
for that pit at the beginning of the year.
Interest on borrowings related to construction or development of projects Operating stripping costs relate to the costs of extracting waste material is capitalised, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their as part of the ongoing mining process.
The ongoing mining and development intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, is when they of the Groups open-pit mines is generally performed via a succession of are capable of commercial production.
The costs of extracting material from an open-pit mine are generally allocated between ore and waste stripping in proportion to the tonnes of material extracted.
The waste stripping costs are generally absorbed into inventory and expensed as that inventory is processed and sold.
Where the stripping costs relate to a significant stripping campaign which is expected to provide improved access to an identifiable component of the ore body typically an individual phase within the overall mine plan, the costs of removing waste in order to improve access to that part of the ore body will be capitalised within mining properties within property, plant and equipment.
The capitalised costs will then be amortised on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore extracted compared with the total ore contained in the component of the pit to which the stripping campaign relates.
140 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 140 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS L Depreciation of property, plant and equipment but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying value that would have been determined if no impairment had previously been Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use, i. e. when it is in recognised.
A reversal is recognised in the income statement immediately.
the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended.
N Inventory Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over Inventory consists of raw materials and consumables, work-in-progress and the remaining life of the operation if shorter, to residual value.
Work-in-progress represents material that is in the process categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows: of being converted into finished goods.
The conversion process for mining operations depends on the nature of the copper ore. For sulphide ores, i Land freehold land is not depreciated unless the value of the land is processing includes milling and concentrating and results in the production considered to relate directly to a particular mining operation, in which of copper concentrate.
For oxide ores, processing includes leaching of case the land is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected stockpiles, solvent extraction and electrowinning and results in the mine life.
Finished goods consist of copper ii Mining properties mining properties, including capitalised financing concentrate containing gold and silver at Los Pelambres and Centinela costs, are depreciated on a unit of production basis, in proportion to and copper cathodes at Centinela and Antucoya.
Los Pelambres also the volume of ore extracted in the year compared with total proven produces molybdenum as a by-product.
and probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost, on a weighted average basis, and iii Buildings and infrastructure straight-line basis over 10 to 25 years.
Net realisable value represents estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, iv Railway track including trackside equipment straight-line basis selling and distribution.
Cost of finished goods and work-in-progress is over 20 to 25 years.
production cost and for raw materials and consumables it is purchase v Wagons and rolling stock straight-line basis over 10 to 20 years.
Production cost includes: vi Machinery, equipment and other assets are depreciated on a labour costs, raw material costs and other costs directly attributable unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore material to the extraction and processing of ore: processed or on a straight-line basis over 5 to 20 years.
depreciation of plant, equipment and mining properties directly involved vii Assets under construction no depreciation until asset is available in the production process: and for use.
an appropriate portion of production overheads.
viii Assets held under finance lease are depreciated over the shorter Stockpiles represent ore that is extracted and is available for further of the lease term and their useful life.
Costs directly attributable to the extraction of ore are generally Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, allocated as part of production costs in proportion to the tonnes of material at least annually, and changes to residual values and useful lives are extracted.
Operating stripping costs are generally absorbed into inventory, accounted for prospectively.
and therefore expensed as that inventory is processed and sold.
If ore is not expected to be processed within 12 months of the statement of financial M Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible position date it is included within non-current assets.
If there is significant assets excluding goodwill uncertainty as to when any stockpiled ore will be processed it is expensed Property, plant and equipment and finite life intangible assets are reviewed as incurred.
for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the O Taxation asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
Tax expense comprises the charges or credits for the year relating to both Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from current and deferred tax.
other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashCurrent tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit may differ generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Any intangible asset with an from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there items of income or expense that are taxable and deductible in different years is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
and also excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
The liability for Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and current tax is calculated using tax rates for each entity in the consolidated value in use.
Fair value less costs of disposal reflects the net amount the financial statements which have been enacted or substantively enacted at Group would receive from the sale of the asset in an orderly transaction the balance sheet date.
For mining assets this would generally be Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary determined based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows differences i. e. differences between the carrying amount of assets and arising from the continued use, further development or eventual disposal liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used of the asset.
The estimates used in determining the present value of those in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is accounted for using cash flows are those that an independent market participant would consider the balance sheet liability method and is provided on all temporary appropriate.
Value in use reflects the expected present value of the future differences with certain limited exceptions as follows: cash flows which the Group would generate through the operation of the asset in its current condition, without taking into account potential i tax payable on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and enhancements or further development of the asset.
The fair value less joint ventures is provided except where the Group is able to control the costs of disposal valuation will normally be higher than the value in use remittance of profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance valuation, and accordingly the Group typically applies this valuation of past profits earned in the foreseeable future: estimate in its impairment assessments.
ii deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated liability in a transaction that does not affect accounting profit or taxable to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the profit and is not a business combination: nor is deferred tax provided recoverable amount.
An impairment charge is recognised in the income on subsequent changes in the carrying value of such assets and statement immediately.
Where an impairment subsequently reverses, the liabilities, for example where they are depreciated: and carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of recoverable amount, iii the initial recognition of any goodwill.
co. uk 141 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, and the calculation is based on valuations performed by an independent Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
they will be recovered through sufficient future taxable profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the are immediately recognised in other comprehensive income.
period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items T Cash and cash equivalents charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call taken directly to equity.
with banks, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in P Provisions value, net of bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand.
Cash and Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or cash equivalents normally have a maturity period of 90 days or less.
constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the U Liquid investments amount of the obligation.
Liquid investments represent highly liquid current asset investments such The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the as term deposits and managed funds invested in high quality fixed income consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the instruments.
They do not meet the IAS 7 definition of cash and cash reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding equivalents, normally because even if readily accessible, the underlying the obligation.
When a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated investments have an average maturity profile greater than 90 days from to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of the date first entered into.
These assets are designated as fair value through those cash flows when the effect of the time value of money is material.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are V Leases expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the account in equal annual amounts over the term of the lease.
amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Assets under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at Q Provisions for decommissioning and restoration costs inception of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the An obligation to incur decommissioning and restoration costs occurs minimum lease payments derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing in the lease.
The interest element is charged within financing costs so as production of a mining property.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance closure plan and are subject to regular formal review.
Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation W Other financial instruments work, discounted to their net present value, are provided and capitalised at Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions These decommissioning costs are charged against profits over the life of the of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual mine, through depreciation of the asset and unwinding or amortisation of the rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or the Group has discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in operating costs while transferred the asset to another party.
Financial liabilities are removed the unwinding of the discount is included as financing costs.
Changes in the from the Groups balance sheet when they are extinguished i. e. when measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other the obligation specified in the contract has been discharged, cancelled site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related or expired.
asset in the current year.
i Investments Investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or The costs for restoration of site damage, which is created on an ongoing joint ventures are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
basis during production, are provided for at their net present values and Investments are classified as either held for trading or available-forcharged against operating profits as extraction progresses.
Changes in the sale, and are normally measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair measurement of a liability relating to site damage created during production value.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 25 B. are charged against operating profit.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market R Share-based payments price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for measured are measured at cost.
Securities are classified as held-forthe goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the trading when they are acquired principally for the purpose of sale in liability.
At the end of each reporting period until the liability is settled, and the short term, and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with are included in profit or loss for the period.
Other investments are any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
The classified as available-for-sale, and gains and losses arising from Group currently does not have any equity settled share-based payments changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, within the to employees or third parties.
Fair value reserve, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously S Post-employment benefits recognised in equity is included in profit or loss for the period.
The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number of Dividends on available-for-sale and held-for-trading equity investments employees.
For such schemes, the amount charged to the income statement are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive is the contributions paid or payable in the year.
Employment terms may also provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and based on final salary level.
142 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 142 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ii Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not vii Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those generally carry any interest and are normally stated at their nominal at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of value less any impairment.
Impairment losses on trade receivables impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired are recognised within an allowance account unless the Group where there is objective evidence that as a result of one or more considers that no recovery of the amount is possible, in which events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset case the carrying value of the asset is reduced directly.
the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For loans and receivables the amount of the impairment is the iii Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are generally difference between the assets carrying value and the present value of not interest-bearing and are normally stated at their nominal value.
estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest iv Borrowings loans and preference shares Interest-bearing loans rate.
Any impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
and bank overdrafts are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense of trade receivables.
recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and With the exception of available-for-sale equity instruments, if, in a of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment appropriate, a shorter period.
Finance charges, including premiums loss is reversed through profit or loss immediately to the extent that payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been method.
Amounts are either recorded as financing costs in profit or had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of available-forloss or capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy set out sale equity instruments, any increase in fair value subsequent to an in Note 2 K. Finance charges are added to the carrying amount of impairment loss is recognised directly in equity.
the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
X Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items of income and expense which are The Sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the Company non-regular or non-operating and typically non-cash movements Note 4. carry a fixed rate of return without the right to participate in any Profit excluding exceptional items is considered to be a useful performance surplus.
They are accordingly classified within borrowings and measure as it provides an indication of the underlying earnings of the translated into US dollars at period-end rates of exchange.
Groups operations, excluding these one-off items.
Preference share dividends are included within finance costs.
Y Rounding v Equity instruments Equity instruments issued are recorded at All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and notes have been the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments rounded off to the nearest million dollars unless otherwise stated.
of the Company comprise its Sterling-denominated issued ordinary share capital and related share premium.
As explained in Note 2 E, These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, the presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency unless otherwise stated.
of the Company is US dollars, and ordinary share capital and share premium are translated into US dollars at historical rates of exchange 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES based on dates of issue.
OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Determining many of the amounts included in the financial statements vi Derivative financial instruments As explained in Note 24 D, the involves the use of judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price movements.
The and circumstances having regard to prior experience, but actual results may Group does not use such derivative instruments for trading purposes.
differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 about such judgements and estimates is included in the principal accounting Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The effective policies in Note 2 or the other notes to the financial statements, and the key portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments areas are set out below.
that are designated and qualify as hedges of future cash flows have been recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in profit or loss in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised in profit or loss are recorded within revenue.
The time value element of changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from the designated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in profit or loss within other finance items.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Changes in fair value are reported in profit or loss for the year.
The treatment of embedded derivatives arising from provisionallypriced commodity sales contracts is set out in further detail in Note 2 F relating to revenue.
co. uk 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF The majority of other items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY CONTINUED Management reviews the appropriateness of useful economic lives at least annually and, again, any changes could affect prospective A Judgements depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations which are dealt with separately, that the directors have The total depreciation and amortisation charge for 2017 was $578.4 made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and million, and so as a very simplistic sensitivity, a 10% adjustment to that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the the useful economic lives of all of the Groups property, plant and financial statements.
equipment would result in an impact of approximately $60 million on the annual depreciation charge.
i Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment of project costs As explained in Note 2 K the costs of developing mining properties are ii Non-financial assets Impairment capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the year in which they As explained in Note 2 M, the Group reviews the carrying value of are incurred, when the mining project is considered to be commercially its intangible assets and property, plant and equipment to determine viable.
Management reviews amounts capitalised to ensure that the whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
In treatment of that expenditure as capital rather than operating making assessments for impairment, assets that do not generate expenditure is reasonable, in particular in respect of the commercial independent cash flows are allocated to an appropriate cashviability of the project.
Commercial viability is normally considered to generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amount of those assets, be demonstrable when the project has completed a pre-feasibility or CGU, is measured at the higher of their fair value less costs to study, and the start of a feasibility study has been approved.
As at sell and value in use.
Details of the impairment reviews undertaken 31 December 2017 $211.4 million of feasibility study costs relating to as at 31 December 2017 are set out in Note 4. projects which are still under evaluation and have not yet received final Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets Board approval were capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
to CGUs, in estimating the probability, timing and value of underlying cash flows and in selecting appropriate discount rates to be applied ii Deferred taxation within the fair value less cost to dispose calculation.
The key As explained in Note 2 O, deferred tax assets are recognised only assumptions are set out in Note 2 M and Note 4.
Subsequent to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered through changes to CGU allocation, licensing status, reserves and resources, sufficient future taxable profits.
The key assumptions to which the price assumptions or other estimates and assumptions in the fair value forecasts of the probable level of future taxable profits are most less cost to dispose calculation could impact the carrying value of the sensitive are future commodity prices, production levels and operating respective assets.
Generally under Chilean tax law most tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely, and so the expiry of tax losses is not generally an Details of the valuation and sensitivities of the assets of the Groups issue.
As set out in Note 27, the Group has recognised $272.1 million mining operations are included in Note 4, including quantitative of deferred tax assets in respect of provisions, short-term timing sensitivity analyses.
differences and tax losses as at 31 December 2017. iii Provisions for decommissioning and site restoration costs B Estimates As explained in Note 2 Q, provision is made, based on net present The group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The values, for decommissioning and site rehabilitation costs as soon as resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related the obligation arises following the development or ongoing production actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of a mining property.
The provision is based on a closure plan prepared of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and with the assistance of external consultants.
liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below.
Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and in the case of capitalised decommissioning costs amortise i Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment and ore reserves these estimated costs over the life of the mine.
The ultimate cost estimates of decommissioning and site rehabilitation is uncertain and cost As explained in Note 2 L, mining properties, including capitalised estimates can vary in response to many factors including changes financing costs, are depreciated in proportion to the volume of ore to relevant legal requirements, the emergence of new restoration extracted in the year compared with total proven and probable techniques or experience at other mine sites.
reserves at the beginning of the year.
The expected timing and extent of expenditure can also change, for There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, example in response to changes in ore reserves or processing levels.
and assumptions that were valid at the time of estimation may change As a result, there could be significant adjustments to the provisions when new information becomes available.
These include assumptions established which would affect future financial results.
as to grade estimates and cut-off grades, recovery rates, commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs, capital costs, processing Details of the decommissioning and restoration provisions are set out and reclamation costs and discount rates.
The actual volume of in Note 28.
The total value of these provisions as at 31 December 2017 ore extracted and any changes in these assumptions could affect was $433.0 million.
prospective depreciation rates and carrying values.
144 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 144 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Exceptional items are material items of income and expense which are non-regular or non-operating and typically non-cash movements.
Profit excluding exceptional items is considered to be a useful performance measure as it provides an indication of the underlying earnings of the Groups operations, excluding these one-off items.
There are no exceptional items in the year ended 31 December 2017.
The exceptional items in the year ended 31 December 2016 are shown in the table below.
Share of results from associates Operating profit and joint ventures Profit before tax Earnings per share 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Before exceptional items 1,841.1 923.6 59.7 23.4 1,830.8 875.9 76.2 38.6 Provision against the carrying value of assets: Alto Maipo Loan 241.0 241.0 6.3 Alto Maipo Investment 126.6 126.6 5.8 Antucoya PPE 215.6 215.6 10.7 Energia Andina Investment 8.1 8.1 0.2 Total provision against the carrying 456.6 134.7 591.3 22.6 value of assets After exceptional items 1,841.1 467.0 59.7 111.3 1,830.8 284.6 76.2 16.0 i Other asset sensitivities This valuation exercise demonstrated positive headroom for all of the There were no indicators of potential impairment, or reversal of previous Groups mining operations, with the recoverable amount of the assets impairments, for the Groups operations at the 2017 year-end, and in excess of their carrying value.
As an additional down-side sensitivity, accordingly no impairment reviews have been performed.
However, a valuation was performed with a 5% reduction in the long-term copper in order to provide an indication of the sensitivities of the recoverable price.
Los Pelambres and Zaldvar still showed positive headroom in this amount of the Groups mining operations, a valuation and sensitivity alternative down-side scenario, however the Antucoya valuation indicated analysis has been performed.
a potential deficit of $40 million and the Centinela valuation indicated a potential deficit of $400 million.
This was a simple sensitivity exercise, The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal looking at an illustrative change in the forecast long-term copper price in and value in use.
Fair value less costs of disposal reflects the net amount isolation.
In reality, a deterioration in the long-term copper price environment the Group would receive from the sale of the asset in an orderly transaction is likely to result in corresponding improvements in a range of input cost between market participants.
For mining assets this would generally be factors, as well as potential operational changes, which could partly mitigate determined based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows these estimated potential sensitivities.
arising from the continued use, further development or eventual disposal of the asset.
Value in use reflects the expected present value of the future cash flows which the Group would generate through the operation of the asset in its current condition, without taking into account potential enhancements or further development of the asset.
The fair value less costs of disposal valuation will normally be higher than the value in use valuation, and accordingly the Group typically applies this valuation estimate in its impairment or valuation assessments.
The key assumptions to which the value of the assets are most sensitive are future commodity prices, the discount rate used to determine the present value of the future cash flows, future operating costs, sustaining and development capital expenditure and ore reserve estimates.
The commodity price forecasts representing the Groups estimates of the assumptions that would be used by independent market participants in valuing the assets are based on the forward curve for the short term and consensus analyst forecasts including both investment banks and commodity consultants for the longer term.
A long-term copper price of $3.0 usd lb has been used in the base valuations.
A real post-tax discount rate of 8% has been used in determining the present value of the forecast future cash flow from the assets.
co. uk 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION Los Pelambres produces primarily copper concentrate and molybdenum as a by-product.
Centinela produces copper concentrate containing gold as The Groups reportable segments are as follows: a by-product and copper cathodes.
Antucoya and Zaldvar produce copper Los Pelambres cathodes.
The transport division provides rail cargo and road cargo together Centinela with a number of ancillary services.
All the operations are based in Chile.
The Exploration and evaluation segment incurs exploration and evaluation Antucoya expenses.
Corporate and other items comprises costs incurred by the Zaldvar Company, Antofagasta Minerals SA, the Groups mining corporate centre and other entities, that are not allocated to any individual business segment.
Exploration and evaluation Consistent with its internal management reporting, the Groups corporate Corporate and other items and other items are included within the mining division.
Transport and other transport services The chief operating decision-maker monitors the operating results of the business segments separately for the purpose of making decisions For management purposes, the Group is organised into two business about resources to be allocated and of assessing performance.
Segment divisions based on their products Mining and Transport and other performance is evaluated based on the operating profit of each of transport services.
The mining division is split further for management the segments.
reporting purposes to show results by mine and exploration activity.
EBITDA refers to Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
EBITDA is calculated by adding back depreciation, amortisation, profit or loss on disposals and impairment charges to operating profit.
This comprises 100% of the EBITDA from the Groups subsidiaries, and the Groups proportional share of the EBITDA of its associates and joint ventures Note 37B.
Operating cash outflow in the exploration and evaluation segment was $45.6 million.
Operating cash outflow in the exploration and evaluation segment was $22.1 million.
co. uk 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Notes to segment revenues and results i Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue from the Railway and other transport services segment is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of $0.3 million year ended 31 December 2016 $1.2 million.
ii Revenue includes provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates and copper cathodes.
Further details of such adjustments are given in Note 6. iii The copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges.
Tolling charges for copper and molybdenum concentrates are detailed in Note 6. iv The effects of tax and non-controlling interests on the expenses within the Exploration and evaluation segment are allocated to the mine that the exploration work relates to.
v The assets of the Railway and transport services segment include $60.1 million 31 December 2016 $71.3 million relating to the Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos SA Inversiones Hornitos, which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones in Chiles Antofagasta Region and $5.3 million 31 December 2016 $6.5 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Antofagasta Terminal International SA ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
The assets of the Corporate and other items segment includes $22.0 million 31 December 2016 $22.0 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Parque Elico El Arrayan SA, an energy company which operates a wind farm in Chile and $0.2 million 31 December 2016 $3.2 million relating to the Groups 50.1% interest in the Energia Andina joint venture.
Further details of these investments are set out in Note 17.
B Entity-wide disclosures Revenue by product 2017 2016 $m $m Copper Los Pelambres 2,149.0 1,627.0 Centinela concentrate 1,037.0 778.7 Centinela cathodes 378.6 278.1 Antucoya 508.6 277.9 Gold Los Pelambres 68.7 78.5 Centinela 209.7 261.2 Molybdenum Los Pelambres 168.5 94.0 Silver Los Pelambres 37.7 46.1 Centinela 20.5 20.0 Total 4,578.3 3,461.5 Railway and transport services 171.1 160.2 4,749.4 3,621.7 148 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 148 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Revenue by location of customer 2017 2016 $m $m Europe United Kingdom 46.6 Switzerland 835.1 217.7 Spain 163.5 115.6 Germany 139.4 38.5 Rest of Europe 114.2 157.3 Latin America Chile 206.9 105.2 Rest of Latin America 125.2 126.4 North America United States 207.4 49.5 Asia Japan 1,698.2 1,483.5 China 484.8 771.9 Rest of Asia 728.1 556.1 4,749.4 3,621.7 Information about major customers In the year ended 31 December 2017 the Groups mining revenue included $823.4 million related to one large customer that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenue year ended 31 December 2016 one large customer representing $694.7 million.
Non-current assets by location of assets 2017 2016 $m $m Chile 10,250.2 9,996.3 USA 215.4 204.4 Other 0.1 0.1 10,465.7 10,200.8 The above non-current assets disclosed by location of assets exclude financial instruments, available-for-sale investments and deferred tax assets.
co. uk 149 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6 REVENUE An analysis of the Groups total revenue is as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Sales of goods 4,607.6 3,486.8 Rendering of services 141.8 134.9 Group revenue 4,749.4 3,621.7 Other operating income included within net operating costs 26.0 20.2 Investment income 23.8 26.9 Total income 4,799.2 3,668.8 Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange copper price or monthly average molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from one to four months after shipment to the customer.
The provisional pricing mechanism within the sale agreements is an embedded derivative under IFRS.
Gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and to trade debtors in the balance sheet.
The Group determines mark-to-market prices using forward prices at each period end for copper concentrate and cathode sales, and period-end month average prices for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market in the market price references for that commodity in the majority of the Groups contracts.
In addition to mark-to-market and final pricing adjustments, revenue also includes realised gains and losses relating to derivative commodity instruments.
Details of these realised gains or losses are shown in the tables below.
Further details of derivative commodity instruments in place at the period end are given in Note 24.
Copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges, as shown in the tables below.
For the year ended 31 December 2017 Los Pelambres Centinela Centinela Antucoya Los Pelambres Centinela Los Pelambres Copper Copper Copper Copper Gold in Gold in Molybdenum concentrate concentrate cathodes cathodes concentrate concentrate concentrate $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 2,138.9 1,031.1 385.9 502.7 70.4 209.6 173.6 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 28.0 15.3 0.4 0.6 1.3 0.7 Settlement of sales invoiced in the previous year 53.3 37.6 0.7 0.9 2.2 2.0 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in the current year 25.3 22.3 0.4 1.3 0.9 0.9 2.7 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of sales invoiced in the current year 110.2 61.7 3.9 5.7 0.6 1.5 3.2 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 54.1 20.1 1.7 2.7 0.2 4.7 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices 164.3 81.8 5.6 8.4 0.6 1.7 7.9 Total pricing adjustments 189.6 104.1 6.0 9.7 1.5 0.8 10.6 Realised losses on commodity derivatives 13.3 3.8 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 2,328.5 1,135.2 378.6 508.6 68.9 210.4 184.2 Tolling charges 179.5 98.2 0.2 0.8 15.7 Revenue net of tolling charges 2,149.0 1,037.0 378.6 508.6 68.7 209.6 168.5 150 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 150 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2016 Centinela Antucoya Los Pelambres Los Pelambres Centinela Copper Copper Los Pelambres Centinela Molybdenum Copper concentrate Copper concentrate cathodes cathodes Gold in concentrate Gold in concentrate concentrate $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 1,715.1 845.2 276.8 274.2 78.9 263.9 105.5 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the 14.5 6.2 0.2 2.2 1.0 end of the previous year Settlement of sales invoiced in the previous year 18.9 7.8 0.1 1.0 1.7 Total effect of adjustments to previous year 4.4 1.6 0.2 0.1 1.2 0.7 invoices in the current year Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of sales invoiced in the current year 80.5 28.7 4.1 4.3 0.1 1.6 2.4 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of 28.0 15.3 0.4 0.6 1.3 0.7 the current year Total effect of adjustments to 108.5 44.0 3.7 3.7 0.1 2.9 1.7 current year invoices Total pricing adjustments 104.1 42.4 3.5 3.7 0.2 1.7 2.4 Realised gains on commodity derivatives 2.2 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 1,819.2 887.6 278.1 277.9 78.7 262.2 107.9 Tolling charges 192.2 108.9 0.2 1.0 13.9 Revenue net of tolling charges 1,627.0 778.7 278.1 277.9 78.5 261.2 94.0 I Copper concentrate The typical period for which sales of copper concentrate remain open until settlement occurs is a range of approximately three to four months from shipment date.
2017 2016 Sales Tonnes 160,900 199,900 Average mark-to-market price $ lb 3.28 2.51 Average provisional invoice price $ lb 3.07 2.41 II Copper cathodes The typical period for which sales of copper cathodes remain open until settlement occurs is approximately one month from shipment date.
2017 2016 Sales Tonnes 14,700 13,200 Average mark-to-market price $ lb 3.27 2.51 Average provisional invoice price $ lb 3.14 2.54 antofagasta.
co. uk 151 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6 REVENUE CONTINUED III Gold concentrates The typical period for which sales of gold in concentrate remain open is approximately one month from shipment date.
2017 2016 Sales Ounces 7,100 36,400 Average mark-to-market price $ oz 1,300 1,167 Average provisional invoice price $ oz 1,268 1,203 IV Molybdenum concentrate The typical period for which sales of molybdenum remain open is approximately two months from shipment date.
2017 2016 Sales Tonnes 2,400 1,300 Average mark-to-market price $ lb 9.4 6.6 Average provisional invoice price $ lb 8.5 6.9 As detailed above, the effects of gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and to trade debtors in the balance sheet.
The effect of mark-to-market adjustments on the balance sheet at the end of each period are as follows: Effect on debtors of year end mark-tomarket adjustments 2017 2016 $m $m Los Pelambres copper concentrate 54.1 28.0 Los Pelambres molybdenum concentrate 4.7 0.7 Centinela copper concentrate 20.1 15.3 Centinela gold concentrate 0.2 1.3 Centinela copper cathodes 1.7 0.4 Antucoya copper cathodes 2.7 0.6 83.5 40.3 7 PROFIT BEFORE TAX Operating profit from subsidiaries and total profit from operations and associates and joint ventures is derived from Group revenue by deducting operating costs as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Group revenue 4,749.4 3,621.7 Cost of sales 2,356.4 2,102.6 Gross profit 2,393.0 1,519.1 Administrative and distribution expenses 414.1 479.1 Provision against carrying value of assets 456.6 Other operating income 26.0 20.2 Other operating expenses 163.8 136.6 Operating profit from subsidiaries 1,841.1 467.0 Equity accounting results 59.7 23.4 Provision against carrying value of assets 134.7 Net share of results from associates and joint ventures 59.7 111.3 Total profit from operations, associates and joint ventures 1,900.8 355.7 Other operating expenses mainly comprise $39.8 million of costs relating to the decommissioning and restoration provisions 2016 $9.3 million, $68.8 million of exploration and evaluation expenditure 2016 $44.3 million and $55.2 million of other expenses 2016 $83.0 million.
152 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 152 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting: 2017 2016 $m $m Foreign exchange losses gains included in net finance costs 17.1 2.9 included in income tax expense 0.7 4.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 553.5 552.6 assets held under finance leases 27.6 25.8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8.3 19.7 Exceptional provision against carrying value of property, plant and equipment Note 4 215.6 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 1,697.0 1,520.8 Employee benefit expense 417.8 368.2 Closure provision 39.8 9.3 Severance charges 31.9 15.5 Exploration and evaluation cost 68.8 44.3 Auditors remuneration 1.8 1.6 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2017 2016 Group $000 $000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 1,003 977 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 315 255 Audit-related assurance services 268 249 Tax advisory services 45 32 Tax compliance services 20 Other assurance services 46 90 Corporate finance services not covered above 65 0 Other non-audit services 118 17 1,860 1,640 Details of the Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reason why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 93.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
co. uk 153 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8 EMPLOYEES A Average monthly number of employees 2017 2016 Number Number Los Pelambres 900 901 Centinela 2,044 1,986 Michilla 5 35 Antucoya 737 726 Exploration and evaluation 49 53 Corporate and other employees Chile 447 379 United Kingdom 5 6 Other 4 4 Mining 4,191 4,090 Railway and other transport services 1,219 1,337 5,410 5,427 i The average number of employees for the year includes all the employees of subsidiaries.
The average number of employees does not include contractors who are not directly employed by the Group.
ii The average number of employees does not include employees from associates and joint ventures.
iii The average number of employees includes Non-Executive Directors.
B Aggregated remuneration The aggregated remuneration of the employees included in the table above was as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Wages and salaries 396.5 346.4 Social security costs 21.3 32.8 417.8 379.2 During 2016 $11.0 million was capitalised relating to Minera Antucoya on wages, salaries and social security cost.
C Key management personnel In accordance with IAS 24, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any Directors Executive and Non-Executive of the Company.
Key management personnel who are not Directors have been treated as responsible senior management at the Corporate Centre and those responsible for the running of the key business divisions of the Group.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 18.7 15.1 18.7 15.1 Disclosures on Directors remuneration required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Financial Statement Regulations 2008 including those specified for audit by that Schedule are included in the Remuneration report on page 102.
154 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 154 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 NET FINANCE EXPENSE 2017 2016 $m $m Investment income Interest income 9.2 20.4 Fair value through profit or loss 14.6 6.5 23.8 26.9 Interest expense Interest expense 91.4 86.0 Preference dividends 0.1 0.1 91.5 86.1 Other finance items Time value effect of options 7.8 1.0 Unwinding of discount on provisions 11.6 10.0 Foreign exchange 17.1 2.9 2.3 11.9 Net finance expense 70.0 71.1 During 2017, amounts capitalised and consequently not included within the above table were as follows: Antucoya nil year ended 31 December 2016 $9.2 million, $8.8 million at Centinela year ended 31 December 2016 $2.3 million and $1.3 million at Los Pelambres year ended 31 December 2016 $0.5 million.
The fair value through profit or loss line represents the fair value gains relating to liquid investments.
co. uk 155 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 INCOME TAX EXPENSE The tax charge for the year comprised the following: 2017 2016 $m $m Current tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 376.6 222.1 Mining tax royalty 69.1 35.3 Withholding tax 64.8 3.8 Exchange losses on corporate tax balances 0.7 509.8 261.2 Deferred tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 114.6 27.5 Exceptional items 204.9 Mining tax royalty 9.2 24.8 Withholding tax provision 123.8 152.6 Total tax charge 633.6 108.6 The rate of first category i. e. corporate tax in Chile is 25.5% 2016 24.0%.
In addition to first category tax, the Group incurs withholding taxes on remittance of profits from Chile and deferred tax is provided on undistributed earnings to the extent that remittance is probable in the foreseeable future.
Withholding tax is levied on remittances of profits from Chile at 35% less first category i. e. corporate tax already paid in respect of the profits to which the remittances relate.
The Groups mining operations are also subject to a mining tax royalty.
In 2017 production from Los Pelambres and Centinela Tesoro Central and Mirador pit were subject to a rate of 4% of taxable operating profit and Centinela concentrates of 5%, and production from Antucoya, Encuentro oxides, El Tesoro North East pit and the run-of-mine processing at Centinela cathodes is subject to a rate of between 514%, depending on the level of operating profit margin.
From 2018 onwards the production from Los Pelambres will be subject to a rate of between 514%, depending on the level of operating profit margin, and the Tesoro Central and Mirador pits at Centinela will be subject to a rate of 5%.
2016 2016 2017 before exceptional items after exceptional items $m % $m % $m % Profit before tax 1,830.8 875.9 284.6 Tax at the Chilean corporate tax rate of 25.5% 2016 24% 466.9 25.5 210.2 24.0 68.3 24.0 Provision against carrying value of assets exceptional items 63.0 22.1 Effect of increase in future first category tax rates on deferred tax 0.6 24.6 2.8 24.6 8.6 balances Adjustment in respect of prior years 35.4 1.9 Items not deductible from first category tax 26.7 1.5 23.7 2.7 23.7 8.3 Deduction of mining royalty as an allowable expense in 17.4 1.0 8.5 1.0 8.5 2.9 determination of first category tax Carry-back tax losses resulting in credits at historic tax rates 5.4 0.6 5.4 1.8 Credit of tax losses absorbed from dividends of the year 4.3 0.2 Mining tax royalty 78.3 4.3 60.1 6.9 60.1 21.1 Withholding taxes 64.8 3.5 Withholding taxes adjustment to previous year 3.8 0.4 3.8 1.3 Tax effect of share of results of associates and joint ventures 15.2 0.8 5.6 0.6 5.6 1.9 Reversal of previously unrecognised tax losses 9.9 0.5 Net other items 0.9 0.2 0.0 0.2 0.0 Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 633.6 34.6 313.5 35.8 108.6 38.2 The effective tax rate varied from the statutory rate principally due to the mining royalty tax impact of $78.3 million 4.3%, the withholding tax due on remittances of profits from Chile impact of $64.8 million 3.5%, adjustments in respect of prior years, which relate to adjustments made during the year in the deferred tax asset base impact of $35.4 million 1.9% and items not deductible for Chilean corporate tax purposes, principally the funding of expenses outside of Chile impact of $26.7 million 1.5%, partly offset by the deduction of the mining royalty tax which is an allowable expense when determining the Chilean corporate tax charge impact of $17.4 million 1.0% and the impact of the recognition of the Groups share of profit from associates and joint ventures, which are included in the Groups profit before tax net of their respective tax charges impact of $15.2 million 0.8%.
156 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 156 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS I Profit for the period from discontinued operations At 31 December, 2017, the Group had commenced a process to dispose of Centinela Transmission, the electricity transmission line supplying Centinela and other external parties.
Accordingly, the net results of Centinela Transmission are shown as a discontinued operation in the income statement.
The net results reflect the following elements: Year ended Centinela Year ended 31 December Transmission 31 December 2017 Michilla 2016 $m $m $m $m Revenue 3.4 3.4 3.8 3.8 Total operating costs 2.8 2.8 10.2 10.2 Net finance expense income 1.4 1.4 Profit Loss before tax 0.6 0.6 7.8 7.8 Attributable tax expense 0.1 0.1 4.4 4.4 Profit Loss of discontinued operations 0.5 0.5 3.4 3.4 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 42.9 42.9 Attributable tax expense 1.2 1.2 Net Profit attributable to discontinued operations attributable to owners of the Company 0.5 0.5 38.3 38.3 During 2017 Centinela Transmission contributed $2.2 million 2016 nil to the Groups net cash flow from operating activities, nil 2016 nil in respect to net cash used in investing activities and paid nil 2016 nil in net cash provided in financing activities.
II Disposal of Centinela Transmission The individual assets and liabilities of Centinela Transmission have been reclassified into a disposal group on the balance sheet.
The individual assets and liabilities contained within this disposal group are as follows: At 31 December 2017 $m Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale: Property, plant and equipment 33.2 Trade receivables and other receivables 2.2 Cash and cash equivalents 2.2 Long-term provision Deferred tax assets 0.2 Total 37.8 Liabilities of disposal group classified as held for sale: Trade and other payables 0.1 Current tax liabilities 0.3 Total carrying amount disposed 0.4 A recent change in the law in Chile resulted in companies with their own electricity supply infrastructure starting to charge third parties where applicable for the use of that infrastructure.
This resulted in Centinela transferring its electricity supply infrastructure to the newly created Centinela Transmission group entity during 2017, which recognises this new revenue stream.
Hence, there are no comparative amounts for Centinela Transmission in 2016. antofagasta.
co. uk 157 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 EARNINGS PER SHARE 2017 2016 $m $m Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 750.6 158.0 2017 2016 Number Number Ordinary shares in issue throughout each year 985,856,695 985,856,695 2017 2016 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share From continuing operations 76.1 12.1 From discontinued operations 0.1 3.9 Total continuing and discontinued operations 76.2 16.0 Total continuing and discontinued operations excluding exceptional items 76.2 38.6 Basic earnings per share are calculated as profit after tax and non-controlling interests, based on 985,856,695 ordinary shares.
There was no potential dilution of earnings per share in either year set out above, and therefore diluted earnings per share did not differ from basic earnings per share as disclosed above.
Reconciliation of basic earnings per share from continuing operations: 2017 2016 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company $m 750.6 158.0 Less: profit for discontinued operations $m 0.5 38.3 Profit from continuing operations $m 750.1 119.7 Ordinary shares Number 985,856,695 985,856,695 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations US cent 76.1 12.1 13 DIVIDENDS Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 2017 2016 2017 2016 cents cents $m $m per share per share Final dividend paid in June proposed in relation to the previous year ordinary 150.8 15.3 Interim dividend paid in October ordinary 101.5 30.6 10.3 3.1 252.3 30.6 25.6 3.1 The proposed final dividend for each year, which is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has therefore not been included as a liability in these financial statements, is as follows: 2017 2016 2017 2016 cents cents $m $m per share per share Final dividend proposed in relation to the year ordinary 400.3 151.0 40.6 15.3 400.3 151.0 40.6 15.3 This gives total dividends proposed in relation to 2017 including the interim dividend of 50.9 cents per share or $501.8 million 2016 18.4 cents per share or $181.6 million.
In accordance with IAS 32, preference dividends have been included within interest expense see Note 9 and amounted to $0.1 million 2016 $0.1 million.
Further details of the currency election timing and process including the default currency of payment are available on the Antofagasta plc website www.
co. uk or from the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC on 44 370 702 0159.
Further details relating to dividends for each year are given in the Directors Report on page 123.
158 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 158 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS $m Cost At 1 January 2016 150.1 Additions Disposals Foreign currency exchange difference At 31 December 2016 150.1 Additions Disposals Foreign currency exchange difference At 31 December 2017 150.1 The $150.1 million intangible asset reflects the value of Twin Metals mining licences assets showed as part of corporate segment.
These items will be transferred to the mining properties category within property, plant and equipment when construction of the Twin Metals project commences.
At 31 December 2017 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to $174.5 million 2016 $196.1 million of which $20.9 million were related to the development of the Encuentro Oxides project.
Compensation from insurance companies related to property, plant and equipment included in the consolidated income statement was nil in 2017 2016 $2.3 million.
The average interest rate for the amounts capitalised was 1.9% 2016 1.1%.
At 31 December 2017, assets capitalised relating to the decommissioning provision were $146.5 million at 31 December 2016 $147.2 million.
Depreciation capitalised in property, plant and equipment of $58.6 million related to stripping cost depreciation at Centinela, Los Pelambres and Antucoya.
In 2016 $64.8 million related to stripping cost depreciation at Los Pelambres and Centinela, and $22.8 million related to Antucoya depreciation capitalized during the commissioning period.
The restatement of the opening cost and accumulated depreciation balances as at 1 January 2016 represents reclassifications between asset categories and also an adjustment in respect of fully depreciated asset balances.
co. uk 161 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES The subsidiaries of the Group, the percentage of equity owned and the main country of operation are set out below.
These interests are consolidated within these financial statements.
Country of incorporation Country of operations Registered office Nature of business Economic interest Direct subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Railway Company plc UK Chile 1 Railway 100% Andes Trust Limited The UK UK 1 Investment 100% Chilean Northern Mines Limited UK Chile 1 Investment 100% Andes Re Limited Bermuda Bermuda 4 Insurance 100% Indirect subsidiaries of the Parent Company Minera Los Pelambres SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 60% Minera Centinela SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 70% Minera Antucoya SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 70% Minera Encuentro SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 100% Antofagasta Minerals SA Chile Chile 2 Mining 100% Alfa Estates Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Centinela Transmision SA Chile Chile 2 Energy 100% Northern Minerals Investment Jersey Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Northern Metals UK Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Northern Minerals Holding Co USA USA 5 Investment 100% Duluth Metals Limited Canada Canada 7 Investment 100% Twin Metals UK Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Twin Metals USA Inc USA USA 6 Investment 100% Twin Metals Minnesota LLC USA USA 6 Mining 100% Duluth Metals Holdings USA Inc USA USA 13 Investment 100% Duluth Exploration USA Inc USA USA 14 Investment 100% DMC LLC Minnesota USA USA 13 Investment 100% DMC USA LLC Delaware USA USA 13 Investment 100% DMC USA Corporation USA USA 13 Investment 100% Antofagasta Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Minprop Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Mining 100% Antofagasta Services Limited UK UK 1 Group services 100% Antofagasta Energy Jersey PCC Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Antofagasta Minerals Australia Pty Limited Australia Australia 9 Mining 100% Antofagasta Minerals Adelaide Pty Limited Australia Australia 9 Mining 100% Antofagasta Minerals Perth Pty Limited Australia Australia 9 Mining 100% Minera Anaconda Peru Peru Peru 10 Mining 100% Los Pelambres Holding Company Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Los Pelambres Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Lamborn Land Co USA Chile 5 Investment 100% Anaconda South America Inc USA USA 15 Investment 100% El Tesoro SPV Bermuda Limited Bermuda Bermuda 9 Investment 100% Morrisville Holdings Co BVI BVI 8 Investment 100% Antofagasta Minerals Canada Canada Canada 9 Mining 100% Andes Investments Company Jersey Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Bolivian Rail Investors Co Inc USA USA 5 Investment 100% Blue Ocean Overseas Inc BVI BVI 8 Investment 100% Inversiones Ferrobol Limitada Bolivia Bolivia 11 Investment 100% Inversiones Los Pelambres Chile Ltda.
Chile Chile 2 Investment 100% Equatorial Resources SpA Chile Chile 2 Investment 100% Minera Santa Margarita fide Astillas SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 75.5% 162 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 162 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Country of incorporation Country of operations Registered office Nature of business Economic interest Minera Penacho Blanco SA Chile Chile 2 Mining 66.6% Michilla Costa SpA Chile Chile 2 Logistics 99.9% Minera Mulpun Limitada Chile Chile 2 Mining 100% Community Fundacin Minera Los Pelambres Chile Chile 2 100% development Inversiones Punta fide Rieles Limitada Chile Chile 12 Investment 100% Ferrocarril Antofagasta a Bolivia Chile Chile 12 Railway 100% Permanent Establishment Inversiones Chilean Northern Mines Ltda Chile Chile 12 Investment 100% The Andes Trust Chile SA Chile Chile 12 Investment 100% Forestal SA Chile Chile 12 Forestry 100% Servicios fide Transportes Integrados Limitada Chile Chile 12 Road transport 100% Inversiones Train Limitada Chile Chile 12 Investment 100% Servicios Logisticos Capricornio Limitada Chile Chile 12 Transport 100% Embarcadores Limitada Chile Chile 12 Transport 100% FCAB Ingenieria y Servicios Limitada Chile Chile 12 Transport 100% Emisa Antofagasta SA Chile Chile 12 Transport 100% Registered offices: 1 Cleveland House, 33 King Street, London, SW1Y 6RJ, United Kingdom 9 Riparian Plaza, Level 28, 71 Eagle Street, Brisbane, Qld 4001, Australia 2 Avenida Apoquindo N 4001, Piso 18, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile 10 Av.
Paseo fide la Republica N 3245 Piso 3, Lima, Peru 3 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8PX3 11 Avenida 16 fide Julio N 1440, piso 19 oficina 1905, La Paz, Bolivia 4 Crawford House, 50 Cedar Avenue, Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda 12 Simon Bolivar 255, Antofagasta, Chile 5 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801, USA 13 6041 Earle Brown Drive, 480 Brooklyn Center, MN 55430, USA 6 6040 Earle Brown Drive, 480 Brooklyn Center, MN 55430, USA 14 1010 Dale Street N, St Paul, MN 55117-5603 USA 7 161 Bay Street, Suite 4320, Toronto, Ontario, M5J 2S1, Canada 15 2711 Centerville Rd, Suite 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, USA 8 PO Box 958, Road Town, Tortola VG1110, British Virgin Islands With the exception of the Antofagasta Railway Company plc, all of the above Group companies have only one class of ordinary share capital in issue.
The Antofagasta Railway Company plc has ordinary and preference share capital in issue, with the ordinary share capital representing 76% of the Companys total share capital, and the preference share capital representing 24% of the companys total share capital: Antofagasta plc holds 100% of both the ordinary and preference share capital of the Antofagasta Railway Company plc.
The proportion of the voting rights is proportional with the economic interest for the companies listed above.
co. uk 163 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES Inversiones Minera Energa Tethyan Hornitos ATI El Arrayan Zaldvar Andina Copper Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 71.3 6.5 22.0 983.6 3.2 1,086.6 Obligations on behalf of JV 3.1 3.1 Capital contribution 0.1 9.3 9.4 Capital decrease and others Adjustment to purchase price Disposal 3.1 3.1 Share of net profit loss before tax 14.3 1.5 0.1 77.5 8.2 82.2 Share of tax 3.7 0.3 0.1 19.0 22.5 Share of income loss from associates 10.6 1.2 58.5 8.2 59.7 Dividends received 21.8 60.0 81.8 Balance at the end of the year 60.1 5.3 22.0 982.1 0.2 1,069.7 Obligations on behalf of JV 2.0 2.0 Share of income loss after tax 10.6 1.2 58.5 8.2 59.7 Net share of results from associates and joint ventures 10.6 1.2 58.5 8.2 59.7 Inversiones Alto Minera Energa Tethyan Hornitos ATI El Arrayan Maipo Zaldvar Andina Copper Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 75.1 8.2 23.2 33.5 998.8 10.3 1,149.1 Obligations on behalf of JV 2.5 2.5 Capital contribution 36.0 1.0 10.0 47.0 Capital decrease and others 0.9 0.3 0.6 Adjustment to Purchase price 45.0 45.0 Gains losses in fair value of cash flow hedges deferred in reserves of associates 0.3 4.1 4.4 Provision against carrying value of assets 74.0 8.1 82.1 Share of net profit loss before tax 8.9 1.9 1.0 0.4 41.9 10.6 36.4 Share of tax 2.5 0.2 0.4 12.4 13.0 Share of income loss from associates 6.4 1.7 0.6 0.4 29.5 10.6 23.4 Dividends received 10.2 10.2 Balance at the end of the year 71.3 6.5 22.0 983.6 3.2 1,086.6 Obligations on behalf of JV 3.1 3.1 Share of income loss before tax 6.4 1.7 0.6 0.4 29.5 10.6 23.4 Provision against carrying value of assets exceptional items 74.0 8.1 82.1 Other comprehensive income of associates to profit for the year exceptional items 52.6 52.6 Net share of results from associates and joint ventures 6.4 1.7 0.6 126.2 29.5 8.1 10.6 111.3 164 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 164 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The investments which are included in the $1,067.7 million balances at 31 December 2017 are set out below: Investment in associates i The Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos SA, which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant operating in Mejillones, in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
The Group has a 16-year power purchase agreement with Inversiones Hornitos SA for the provision of up to 40MW of electricity for Centinela.
ii The Groups 30% interest in ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
iii The Groups 30% interest in El Arrayan, which operates a 115MW wind-farm project, The Group has a 20-year power purchase agreement with El Arrayan for the provision of up to 40MW of electricity for Los Pelambres.
Investment in joint ventures iv The Groups 50% interest in Minera Zaldvar SpA Zaldvar, an open-pit, heap-leach copper mine located in Northern Chile, which produces approximately 100,000 tonnes of copper cathodes annually.
v The Groups 50.1% interest in Energia Andina, which is a joint venture with Origin Geothermal Chile Limitada for the evaluation and development of potential sources of geothermal and solar energy.
In February 2017 the disposal of Energia Andinas interest in the Javiera solar power plant was agreed.
The terms of the sale agreement indicated a recoverable value for the interest in Javiera which was $8.1 million below the carrying value, and accordingly an impairment provision for this amount was recognised in the 2016 year-end results.
The disposal completed in May 2017 with no further gain or loss arising.
vi The Groups 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation over Tethyans mineral interest in Pakistan, which is now subject to international arbitration.
As the net carrying value of the interest in Tethyan is negative it is included within non-current liabilities, as the Group is liable for its share of the joint ventures obligations.
Summarised financial information for the associates is as follows: Inversiones Hornitos ATI El Arrayan Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 12.6 0.8 6.0 19.4 Current assets 37.1 11.7 9.0 57.8 Non-current assets 283.5 127.6 244.0 655.1 Current liabilities 37.2 31.5 12.0 80.7 Non-current liabilities 161.3 92.6 182.0 435.9 Revenue 164.7 41.8 33.0 239.5 Profit loss from continuing operations 26.5 3.9 0.1 24.1 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income expense 26.5 3.9 0.1 24.1 Alto Inversiones Hornitos ATI El Arrayan Maipo Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 16.0 0.4 3.1 38.9 58.4 Current assets 37.7 13.5 14.0 56.4 121.6 Non-current assets 294.0 138.5 248.7 1,149.1 1,830.3 Current liabilities 25.7 28.7 13.3 115.5 183.2 Non-current liabilities 163.0 104.3 191.3 1,070.2 1,528.8 Revenue 136.2 46.1 29.1 211.4 Profit loss from continuing operations 16.0 5.4 2.0 0.7 7.9 Profit loss after tax from continuing and discontinued operations Other comprehensive income 10.3 10.3 Total comprehensive income expense 16.0 5.4 2.0 9.6 18.2 antofagasta.
co. uk 165 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES CONTINUED Summarised financial information for the joint ventures is as follows: Minera Zaldvar Energa Andina Tethyan Copper Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalent 75.6 0.7 3.2 75.9 Current assets 574.3 0.1 572.7 Non-current assets 1,569.7 26.9 0.2 1,570.9 Current liabilities 109.5 0.6 7.1 116.2 Non-current liabilities 114.6 26.9 0.1 140.7 Revenue 654.7 649.0 Profit loss after tax from continuing and discontinued operations 116.9 0.5 16.3 98.6 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income expense 116.9 0.5 16.3 98.6 Minera Zaldvar Energa Andina Tethyan Copper Total 2016 2016 2016 2016 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalent 101.7 0.3 1.6 103.6 Current assets 493.7 0.1 493.8 Non-current assets 1,592.0 11.4 0.2 1,603.6 Current liabilities 107.6 7.8 115.4 Non-current liabilities 112.8 0.2 113.0 Revenue 517.7 517.7 Profit loss after tax from continuing and discontinued operations 59.0 10.8 21.1 27.1 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income expense 59.0 10.8 21.1 27.1 Notes to the summarised financial information i The summarised financial information is based on the amounts included in the IFRS financial statements of the associate or joint venture ie.
100% of the results or balances of the associate or joint venture, rather than the Groups proportionate share, after the Groups fair value adjustments.
18 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTMENTS 2017 2016 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 4.6 2.7 Movement in fair value 1.4 1.7 Foreign currency exchange differences 0.5 0.2 Balance at the end of the year 6.5 4.6 Available-for-sale investments represent those investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and are not held for trading purposes.
The fair value of all equity investments are based on quoted market prices.
166 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 166 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 INVENTORIES 2017 2016 $m $m Current: Raw materials and consumables 198.3 189.4 Work in progress 218.7 141.9 Finished goods 66.6 62.1 483.6 393.4 Non-current: Work in progress 111.1 157.3 111.1 157.3 Total 594.7 550.7 No adjustment of Net Realisable Value NRV has been recognised at 31 December 2017 2016 nil.
Non-current work in progress represents inventory expected to be processed more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
20 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade and other receivables do not generally carry any interest, are principally short term in nature and are normally stated at their nominal value less any impairment.
Many other significant trade receivables are secured by letters of credit or other forms of security.
The average credit period given on sale of goods and rendering of service is 45 days 2016 60 days.
There is no material element which is interest-bearing.
Trade debtors include mark-to-market adjustments in respect of provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates which remain open as to final pricing.
Where these have resulted in credit balances, they have been reclassified to trade creditors.
Other debtors are mainly related to interest receivables and VAT receivable.
The other debtors due after one year are mainly related to employee loans.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 1.1 1.0 Charge for the year 1.1 0.1 Amounts written off Disposal of subsidiaries Unused amounts reversed Foreign currency exchange difference 0.1 Balance at the end of the year 2.3 1.1 The ageing analysis of the trade and other receivables balance is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither Up to More than past due 3 months 3-6 months 6 months nor impaired past due past due past due Total $m $m $m $m $m 2017 780.2 17.4 0.4 8.2 806.2 2016 749.1 39.4 13.7 802.2 With respect to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
The carrying value of the trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
co. uk 167 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND LIQUID INVESTMENTS The fair value of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments is not materially different from the carrying values presented.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments comprised: 2017 2016 $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 1,083.6 716.3 Liquid investments 1,168.7 1,332.2 2,252.3 2,048.5 At 31 December 2017 and 2016 there is no cash which is subject to restriction.
The currency exposure of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m US dollars 2,095.4 1,939.0 Chilean pesos 153.1 95.8 Sterling 0.8 1.2 Other 3.0 12.5 2,252.3 2,048.5 The credit quality of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are as follow: 2017 2016 Current account bank deposits and cash at bank $m $m AAA 1,260.6 1,230.3 AA 8.2 AA 34.4 18.2 AA- 47.0 149.1 A 108.8 262.8 A 10.5 168.0 Total 1,469.5 1,828.4 1 Cash at Bank 782.8 220.1 Total cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 2,252.3 2,048.5 1.
Cash at bank is held with investment grade financial institutions.
168 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 168 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 BORROWINGS A Analysis by type of borrowing Borrowings may be analysed by business segment and type as follows: 2017 2016 Notes $m $m Los Pelambres Corporate loans 17.5 Short-term loan i 242.0 312.0 Finance leases ii 44.9 62.2 Centinela Corporate loans iii 596.2 743.8 Shareholder loan subordinated debt iv 194.2 183.6 Short-term loan v 200.0 200.0 Antucoya Project financing senior debt vi 423.9 608.7 Shareholder loan subordinated debt vii 347.5 330.4 Short-term loan viii 30.0 30.0 Finance leases ix 42.6 16.2 Corporate and other items Long-term loan x 497.4 497.2 Finance leases xi 26.6 25.1 Railway and other transport services Long-term loans xii 59.6 89.4 Finance leases xiii 0.8 1.6 Preference shares xiv 3.0 2.5 Total 2,708.7 3,120.2 i The short-term loan PAE is US dollar denominated, comprising a working capital loan for an average period of 1 year and has an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus a margin of between 0.16% 0.17%.
ii Finance leases at Los Pelambres are US dollar denominated, with an interest of LIBOR six-month rate plus 1.7% with a remaining duration of 5 years.
iii Senior debt at Centinela represents US dollar denominated syndicated loans.
These loans are for a remaining term of 2.7 years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 1.0%.
The loans are subject to financial covenants which require that specified net debt to EBITDA and EBITDA to finance expense ratios are maintained.
The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap some of the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2017 the current notional amount hedged was $35.0 million.
iv The long-term subordinated debt is US dollar denominated, provided to Centinela by Marubeni Corporation with a duration of 5 years and a weighted average interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 4.25%.
Long-term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Centinela has been eliminated on consolidation.
v The short-term loan PAE is US dollar denominated, comprising a range of working capital loans for an average period of 1 year and with an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 0.19%.
vi Senior debt at Antucoya represents US dollar denominated syndicated loans.
These loans are for a remaining term of 7.5 years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 2.49%.
vii The long-term subordinated debt is US dollar denominated, provided to Antucoya by Marubeni Corporate with a duration of 8 years and an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 3.65%.
Long-term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Antucoya has been eliminated on consolidation.
viii The short-term loan is US dollar denominated, comprising a working capital loan for an average period of 1 year and has an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 0.19%.
ix Finance leases at Antucoya are US dollar denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of 7 years and with an average interest rate of approximately LIBOR six-month rate plus 1.41%.
x The long-term loan at Corporate Antofagasta plc of $500.0 million has an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 1.5%, and has a duration of 5 years.
xi Finance leases at Corporate and other items are denominated in Unidades fide Fomento i. e. inflation-linked Chilean pesos and have a remaining duration of 11 years and are at fixed rates with an average interest rate of 5.29%.
xii Long-term loans at Railway and other transport services are US dollar denominated, with a duration of 2 years and an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 0.48%.
The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2017 the current notional amount hedged was $60.0 million.
xiii Finance leases at Railway and other transport services are Chilean peso denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of 1.5 years and with a fixed interest rate of 5.9%.
xiv The preference shares are sterling-denominated and issued by Antofagasta plc.
There were 2 million shares of 1 each authorised, issued and fully paid at 31 December 2017.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
On winding up they are entitled to repayment and any arrears of dividend in priority to ordinary shareholders, but are not entitled to participate further in any surplus.
Each preference share carries 100 votes in any general meeting of the Company.
co. uk 169 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 BORROWINGS CONTINUED B Analysis of borrowings by currency The exposure of the Groups borrowings to currency risk is as follows: Chilean 2017 Pesos Sterling Other US dollars Total At 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,577.1 1,577.1 Other loans including short-term loans 1,013.7 1,013.7 Finance leases 27.4 87.5 114.9 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 27.4 3.0 2,678.3 2,708.7 Chilean 2016 Pesos Sterling Other US dollars Total At 31 December 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,956.6 1,956.6 Other loans including short-term loans 1,056.0 1,056.0 Finance leases 26.8 78.3 105.1 Preference shares 2.5 2.5 26.8 2.5 3,090.9 3,120.2 C Analysis of borrowings by type of interest rate The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate risk is as follows: 2017 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2017 $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,577.1 1,577.1 Other loans including short-term loans 1,013.7 1,013.7 Finance leases 27.4 87.5 114.9 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 30.4 2,678.3 2,708.7 2016 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2016 $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,956.6 1,956.6 Other loans including short-term loans 1,056.0 1,056.0 Finance leases 29.1 76.0 105.1 Preference shares 2.5 2.5 31.6 3,088.6 3,120.2 The above floating rate corporate loans include the project financing at Centinela and long-term loans at the Railway and other transport services segment, where the Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2017 the current notional amount hedged of the senior debt at Centinela was $35.0 million 2016 $70.0 million and the current notional amount hedged of the long-term loans at the Railway and other transport services segment was $60.0 million 2016 $90.0 million.
170 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 170 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D Maturity profile The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings is as follows: Within Between Between After 2017 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 260.2 230.9 471.6 614.4 1,577.1 Other loans 472.0 541.7 1,013.7 Finance leases 21.4 26.9 45.4 21.2 114.9 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 753.6 257.8 517.0 1,180.3 2,708.7 Within Between Between After 2016 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 242.4 252.6 711.5 750.1 1,956.6 Other loans 542.0 514.0 1,056.0 Finance leases 22.7 18.7 32.7 31.0 105.1 Preference shares 2.5 2.5 836.8 271.2 744.3 1,267.9 3,120.2 The amounts included above for finance leases are based on the present value of minimum lease payments.
The total minimum lease payments for these finance leases may be analysed as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Within 1 year 24.7 28.9 Between 1-2 years 30.0 20.1 Between 2-5 years 50.6 39.8 After 5 years 23.4 33.6 Total minimum lease payment 128.7 122.4 Less amounts representing finance charges 13.8 17.3 Present value of minimum lease payment 114.9 105.1 All leases are on a fixed payment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
co. uk 171 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Due in one year Due after one year Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m Trade creditors 515.1 422.7 515.1 422.7 Other creditors and accruals 93.9 172.5 7.4 7.9 101.3 180.4 609.0 595.2 7.4 7.9 616.4 603.1 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
Other creditors are mainly related to property plant and equipment payables, finance interest and employee retentions.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 30 days 2016 28 days.
At 31 December 2017, the other creditors include $9.1 million 2016 $0.6 million relating to prepayments.
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT A Categories of financial instruments The Groups financial instruments, grouped according to the categories defined in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, are as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Financial assets Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.3 2.4 Available-for-sale investments 6.5 4.6 Loans and receivables at amortised cost including cash and cash equivalents 1,806.3 1,475.2 Fair value through profit and loss liquid investments and mark-to-market debtors 1,252.2 1,375.5 Financial liabilities Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 7.1 2.5 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 3,325.1 3,720.3 Fair value through profit and loss mark-to-market creditors 3.0 266.9 868.1 B Fair value of financial instruments The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices: the fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions: and the fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, use is made of discounted cash flow analysis based on the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-option derivatives, and option pricing models for option derivatives.
The fair value of each category of financial asset and liability is not materially different from the carrying values presented for either 2017 or 2016.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss are designated as such upon initial recognition.
The following table provides an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
172 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 172 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Total Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.3 0.3 2.4 Available-for-sale investments 6.5 6.5 4.6 Debtors mark-to-market 83.5 83.5 43.3 Fair value through profit and loss 1,168.7 1,168.7 1,332.2 Financial liabilities Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships 7.1 7.1 2.5 Creditors mark-to-market 3.0 1,175.2 76.7 1,251.9 1,377.0 There were no transfers between level 1 and 2 during the year.
C Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including commodity price risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in general to reduce exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk management framework.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with its review of the effectiveness of the risk management process, and monitoring of key risks and mitigations.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee.
I Commodity price risk The Group generally sells its copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathode output at prevailing market prices, subject to final pricing adjustments which normally range from one to four months after delivery to the customer, and it is therefore exposed to changes in market prices for copper and molybdenum both in respect of future sales and previous sales which remain open as to final pricing.
In 2017, sales of copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathodes represented 89.3% of Group revenue and therefore revenues and earnings depend significantly on LME and realised copper prices.
The Group uses futures and min-max options to manage its exposure to copper prices.
These instruments may give rise to accounting volatility due to fluctuations in their fair value prior to the maturity of the instruments.
Details of those copper and molybdenum concentrate sales and copper cathode sales which remain open as to final pricing are given in Note 6.
Details of commodity rate derivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 24 d. Commodity price sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the copper price on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
A movement in the copper forward price as at the reporting date will affect the final pricing adjustment to sales which remain open at that date, impacting the trade receivables balance and consequently the income statement.
A movement in the copper forward price will also affect the valuation of commodity derivatives, impacting the hedging reserve in equity if the fair value movement relates to an effective designated cash flow hedge, and impacting the income statement if it does not.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as currency rates, remain constant.
If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had increased by 10 cents, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have increased by $16.8 million 2016 increase by $21.0 million and hedging reserves in equity would have increased by nil 2016 decrease less than $0.1 million.
If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had decreased by 10 cents, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have decreased by $16.9 million 2016 decrease by $20.5 million and hedging reserves in equity would have decreased by nil 2016 increase less than $0.4 million.
In addition, a movement in the average copper price during the year would impact revenue and earnings.
A 10 cents change in the average copper price during the year would have affected profit attributable to the owners of the parent by $67.0 million 2016 $69.4 million and earnings per share by 6.8 cents 2016 7.0 cents, based on production volumes in 2017, without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing and hedging activity.
A $1 change in the average molybdenum price for the year would have affected profit attributable to the owners of the parent by $9.8 million 2016 $6.7 million, and earnings per share by 1.0 cents 2016 0.7 cents, based on production volumes in 2017, and without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
A $100 change in the average gold price for the year would have affected profit attributable to the owners of the parent by $9.4 million 2016 $12.2 million, and earnings per share by 1.0 cents 2016 1.2 cents, based on production volumes in 2017, and without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
II Currency risk The Group is exposed to a variety of currencies.
The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the countries in which the Groups operations are based principally in Chile as well as those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
After the US dollar, the Chilean peso is the most important currency influencing costs and to a lesser extent sales.
Given the significance of the US dollar to the Groups operations, this is the presentational currency of the Group for internal and external reporting.
The US dollar is also the currency for borrowing and holding surplus cash, although a portion of this may be held in other currencies, notably Chilean pesos and Sterling, to meet short-term operating and capital commitments and dividend payments.
co. uk 173 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED When considered appropriate, the Group uses forward exchange contracts and currency swaps to limit the effects of movements in exchange rates in foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
The Group may also use these instruments to reduce currency exposure on future transactions and cash flows.
Details of any exchange rate derivatives entered by the Group in the year are given in Note 24. d. The currency exposure of the Groups cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments is given in Note 21, and the currency exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 22. b.
The effects of exchange gains and losses included in the income statement are given in Note 9.
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of entities with a functional currency other than the US dollar are taken to the currency translation reserve and are disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 134.
Currency sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the US dollar Chilean peso exchange rate on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
The impact on profit or loss is as a result of the retranslation of monetary financial instruments including cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments, trade receivables, trade payables and borrowings.
The impact on equity is as a result of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments which are effective designated cash flow hedges, and changes in the fair value of available-for-sale equity investments.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as interest rates, remain constant.
If the US dollar had strengthened by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the reporting date, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have decreased by $9.2 million 2016 decrease of $1.3 million.
If the US dollar had weakened by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the reporting date, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have increased by $11.4 million 2016 increase of $3.2 million.
III Interest rate risk The Groups policy is generally to borrow and invest cash at floating rates.
Fluctuations in interest rates may impact the Groups net finance income or cost, and to a lesser extent the value of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group occasionally uses interest rate swaps and collars to manage interest rate exposures on a portion of its existing borrowings.
Details of any interest rate derivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 24D.
i Interest rate exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 22.
Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in interest rates in relation to the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
The impact on profit or loss reflects the impact on annual interest expense in respect of the floating rate borrowings held as at the reporting date, and the impact on annual interest income in respect of cash and cash equivalents held as at the reporting date.
The impact on equity is as a result of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments which are effective designated cash flow hedges.
If the interest rate increased by 1%, based on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have decreased by $0.3 million 2016 increase of $3.8 million and hedging reserves in equity would have increased by $0.4 million 2016 increase of $0.3 million.
This does not include the effect on the income statement of changes in the fair value of the Groups liquid investments relating to the underlying investments in fixed income instruments.
IV Other price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk on its available-for-sale equity investments.
Equity price sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the equity values of the available-for-sale financial assets held as at the reporting date.
If the value of the available-for-sale investments had increased by 10% as at the reporting date, equity would have increased by $0.7 million 2016 increase of $0.5 million.
There would have been no impact on the income statement.
V Cash flow risk The Groups future cash flows depend on a number of factors, including commodity prices, production and sales levels, operating costs, capital expenditure levels and financial income and costs.
Its cash flows are therefore subject to the exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks described above as well as operating factors and input costs.
To reduce the risk of potential short-term disruptions to the supply of key inputs such as electricity and sulphuric acid, the Group enters into medium and long-term supply contracts to help ensure continuity of supply.
Long-term electricity supply contracts are in place at each of the Groups mines, in most cases linking the cost of electricity under the contract to the current cost of electricity on the Chilean grids or the generation cost of the supplier.
The Group seeks to lock in supply of sulphuric acid for future periods of a year or longer, with contract prices agreed in the latter part of the year, to be applied to purchases of acid in the following year.
Further information on production and sales levels and operating costs are given in the Operating review on pages 28 to 43.
VI Credit risk Credit risk arises from trade and other receivables, cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments and derivative financial instruments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily to trade receivables.
The credit risk on cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments and on derivative financial instruments is limited as the counterparties are financial institutions with high credit ratings assigned by international credit agencies.
The largest balances of trade receivables are held with equity participants in the key mining projects.
All customers are subject to credit review procedures, including the use of external credit ratings where available.
Credit is provided only within set limits, which are regularly reviewed.
The main customers are recurrent with a good credit history during the years while they have been customers.
Outstanding receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
174 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 174 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The carrying value of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for any doubtful receivables Note 20. vii Liquidity risk The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and financing facilities, through the review of forecast and actual cash flows.
The Group typically holds surplus cash in demand or term deposits or highly liquid investments, which typically can be accessed or liquidated within 24 hours.
The majority of borrowings comprise a short-term loan at Los Pelambres, Centinela and Antucoya, repayable over a period of up to one year, project financing senior debt at Centinela, repayable over approximately 2.7 years, project financing senior debt at Antucoya repayable over approximately 7.5 years, long-term subordinated debt at Antucoya repayable over approximately 8 years, and a corporate loan at Antofagasta plc repayable over approximately 5 years.
At the end of the 2017 the Group was in a net debt position 2016 net debt position, as disclosed in Note 31C.
Details of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are given in Note 21, while details of borrowings including the maturity profile are given in Note 22D.
Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities are also given in Note 22.
The following table analyses the maturity of the Groups contractual commitments in respect of its financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Between Less than 6 months Between After 2017 6 months to 1 year 1-2 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 205.8 102.6 274.8 1,157.7 1,740.9 Other loans including short-term loans 191.5 285.4 871.3 1,348.2 Finance leases 11.2 11.2 29.8 73.8 126.0 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 Trade and other payables 606.1 2.8 6.1 1.4 616.4 Derivative financial instruments 1.5 5.5 0.1 7.1 1,016.1 407.5 313.8 2,104.2 3,841.6 Between 6 months Less than Between After 2016 6 months to 1 year 1-2 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 117.0 191.3 286.8 1,510.6 2,105.7 Other loans including short-term loans 190.6 352.1 714.6 1,257.3 Finance leases 14.6 14.3 19.8 73.5 122.2 Preference shares 2.5 2.5 Trade and other payables 590.8 4.1 8.7 0.1 603.7 Derivative financial instruments 1.0 1.5 2.5 914.0 563.3 317.8 2,298.8 4,093.9 The preference shares pay an annual dividend of 100,000 in perpetuity, and accordingly it is not possible to determine total amounts payable for periods without a fixed end date.
viii Capital risk management The Groups objectives are to return capital to shareholders while leaving the Group with sufficient funds to progress its short, medium and long-term growth plans as well as preserving the financial flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they may arise.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of net cash defined as cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments less borrowings which was a net debt of $456.4 million at 31 December 2017 2016 net debt $1,071.7 million, as well as gross cash defined as cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments which was $2,252.3 million at 31 December 2017 2016 $2,048.5 million.
The Groups total cash is held in a combination of on demand and term deposits and managed funds investing in high quality, fixed income instruments.
Some of the managed funds have been instructed to invest in instruments with average maturities greater than 90 days.
These amounts are presented as liquid investments but are included in net cash for monitoring and decision-making purposes.
The Group has a risk averse investment strategy.
The Groups borrowings are detailed in Note 22.
Additional project finance or shareholder loans are taken out by the operating subsidiaries to fund projects on a case-by-case basis.
co. uk 175 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED D Derivative financial instruments The Group occasionally uses derivative financial instruments, in general to reduce its exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows have been recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised in the income statement have been recorded within revenue.
The time value element of changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from the designated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in the income statement within other finance items.
Realised gains and losses and changes in the fair value of exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items for those derivatives where hedge accounting has not been applied.
When hedge accounting has been applied the realised gains and losses on exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items and interest expense respectively.
I Mark-to-market adjustments and income statement impact The gains or losses recorded in the income statement or in reserves during the year, and the fair value recorded on the balance sheet at the end of the year in respect of derivatives are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2017 Fair value recorded on Impact on income statement Impact on reserves balance sheet Losses resulting from Gains mark-to-market resulting from mark-toadjustments market adjustments Net financial Realised on hedging instruments Total net loss on hedging instruments liability asset losses 2017 2017 2017 2017 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m Commodity derivatives Centinela 13.3 4.4 17.7 3.4 Antucoya 3.8 3.4 7.2 3.4 Interest derivatives Centinela 0.7 0.7 1.0 0.2 Railway and other transport services 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 18.0 7.8 25.8 1.2 6.8 For the year ended 31 December 2016 Fair value recorded on Impact on income statement Impact on reserves balance sheet Gains resulting from mark-to-market adjustments Losses gains resulting from Realised on hedging Total net mark-to-market adjustments losses gains instruments loss gain on hedging instruments Net financial liability asset 2016 2016 2016 2016 31 December 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Commodity derivatives Centinela 2.2 1.0 1.2 1.1 Interest derivatives Centinela 2.6 2.6 1.8 1.2 Railway and other transport services 1.0 1.0 0.5 5.8 1.0 4.8 2.3 0.1 The gains losses recognised in reserves are disclosed before non-controlling interests and tax.
At December 2017 the credit risk implicit in the liability is less than $0.1 million 2016 $0.1 million.
The differences between the carrying amount and the amount the entity would be contractually required to pay at the maturity date are not material.
176 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 176 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The net financial liability resulting from the balance sheet mark-to-market adjustments are analysed as follows: 2017 2016 Analysed between: $m $m Current assets 0.1 2.2 Non-current assets 0.2 0.2 Current liabilities 7.1 2.0 Non-current liabilities 0.5 6.8 0.1 II Outstanding derivative financial instruments Commodity derivatives The Group periodically uses commodity derivatives to reduce its exposure to fluctuation in the copper price.
Min-Max Instruments The group has min-max options for copper production according to the Groups Pricing Policy.
At 31 December 2017 For instruments held at 31 December 2017 Weighted average Copper production Average Average remaining period from hedged Min Max 1 January 2018 Covering a period up to: tonnes $ lb $ lb Months Centinela 30,000 2.50 3.60 6.5 31.12.2018 Antucoya 30,000 2.50 3.60 6.5 31.12.2018 Interest derivatives The Group periodically uses interest derivatives to reduce its exposure to interest rate movements.
Interest rate swaps The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest relating to the Centinela project financing and long-term loans at the Railway for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2017 the Group had entered into the contracts outlined below.
Maximum notional amount Weighted average fixed rate Start date Maturity date $m % Centinela concentrates 15 02 11 15 08 18 35.0 3.372 Railway and other transport services 12 08 14 12 08 19 60.0 1.634 The actual notional amount hedged depends upon the amount of the related debt currently outstanding.
25 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The long-term incentive plan the Plan was introduced at the end of 2011.
Awards granted pursuant to the Plan form part of the remuneration of senior managers in the Group.
Directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan.
Details of the Awards Under the Plan, the Group may grant awards based on the price of ordinary shares in the Company and cannot grant awards over actual shares.
Restricted Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares, subject to the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Restricted Award vests: and Performance Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares subject to both the satisfaction of a performance condition and the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Performance Award vests.
When awards vest under the Plan, participants become entitled to receive a cash payment by reference to the number and portion of awards that have vested and the market value of the Companys ordinary shares on the date of vesting.
There is no exercise price payable by participants in respect of the awards.
Restricted Awards can only vest in full if participants remain employed by the Group for three years from the date that Restricted Awards are granted.
In ordinary circumstances, the first one-third of a Restricted Award will vest after one year, the second one-third will vest after two years and the remaining one-third will vest after three years.
There are no performance criteria attached to Restricted Awards.
The fair value of Restricted Awards granted under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting periods, with a corresponding liability recognised for the fair value of the liability at the end of each period until settled.
Performance Awards only vest if certain performance criteria are met.
The performance criteria reflect a number of factors including total shareholder return, earnings levels, growth in the Groups reserves and resources and project delivery targets.
The fair value of Performance Awards under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding liability at the end of each period until settled.
co. uk 177 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN CONTINUED Valuation process and accounting for the awards The fair value of the awards is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo simulation model are as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted average forecast share price at vesting date $9.20 $9.20 Expected volatility 25.60% 36.39% Expected life of awards 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yields 2.18% 0.34% Risk free rate 1.19% 0.44% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous five years.
The expected life of awards used in the model has been adjusted based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability and compliance of the objectives determined according to the characteristic of each plan.
The number of awards outstanding at the end of the year is as follows: Performance Restricted Awards Awards Outstanding at 1 January 2017 562,136 1,173,092 Granted during the year 242,769 566,458 Cancelled during the year 24,911 82,038 Payments during the year 127,506 218,958 Outstanding at 31 December 2017 652,488 1,438,554 Number of awards that have vested 325,226 The Group has recorded a liability for $11.4 million at 31 December 2017, of which $5.9 million is due after more than one year 31 December 2016 $6.8 million of which $3.6 million was due after more than one year and total expenses of $10.1 million for the year 2016 expense of $3.4 million.
The intrinsic value is $11.4 million.
26 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS A Defined contribution schemes The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number of employees.
The amount charged to the income statement in 2017 was $0.1 million 2016 $0.1 million, representing the amount paid in the year.
There were no outstanding amounts which remain payable at the end of either year.
B Severance provisions Employment terms at some of the Groups operations provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an employment contract comes to an end.
The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, and the obligation recognised is based on valuations performed by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
Actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in other comprehensive income.
The most recent valuation was carried out in 2017 by Ernst & Young, a qualified actuary in Santiago, Chile who is not connected with the Group.
The main assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations were as follows: 2017 2016 Average nominal discount rate 4.9% 4.5% Average rate of increase in salaries 1.5% 1.7% Average staff turnover 6.5% 11.8% Amounts included in the income statement in respect of severance provisions are as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Current service cost charge to operating profit 31.9 15.5 Interest cost charge to interest expenses 4.5 4.4 Foreign exchange charge to other finance items 8.1 6.2 Total charge to income statement 44.5 26.1 178 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 178 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in the present value of severance provisions were as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 92.2 86.9 Current service cost 31.9 15.5 Actuarial gains 5.7 7.8 Charge capitalised 0.5 Interest cost 4.5 4.4 Reclassification 1.3 Paid in the year 17.0 12.2 Foreign currency exchange difference 8.1 6.2 Balance at the end of the year 114.0 92.2 Assumptions description Discount rate 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Nominal discount rate 4.87% 4.53% Reference rate name 20year Chilean Central Bank Bonds 20year Chilean Central Bank Bonds Governmental or corporate rate Governmental Governmental Reference rating AA AA AA AA Corresponds to an Issuance market primary or secondary market Secondary Secondary Issuance currency associated to the reference rate Chilean peso Chilean peso Date of determination of the reference interest rate 27 November 2017 14 September 2016 Source of the reference interest rate Bloomberg Bloomberg The discount rate is the interest rate used to discount the estimated future severance payments to their present value.
The table above shows the principal instruments and assumptions utilised in determining the discount rate: Rate of increase in salaries This represents the estimated average rates of future salary increases, reflecting likely future promotions and other changes.
This has been based on historical information for the Group for the period from 2013 to 2017.
Turnover rate This represents the estimated average level of future employee turnover.
Sensitivity analysis Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase and staff turnover.
The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
If the discount rate is 100 basis points higher the defined benefit obligation would decrease by $7.5 million.
If the discount rate is 100 basis points lower the defined benefit obligation would increase by $8.8 million.
If the expected salary growth increases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would increase by $7.0 million.
If the expected salary growth decreases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would decrease by $6.6 million.
If the staff turnover increases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would decrease by less than $1.7 million.
If the staff turnover decreases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would increase by less than $1.7 million.
co. uk 179 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 DEFERRED TAX AND LIABILITIES Accelerated Temporary capital differences Withholding Short-term Mining tax allowances on provisions tax differences Royalty Tax losses Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2016 1,067.8 133.0 11.4 49.0 55.1 0.7 951.6 Charge credit to income 21.4 6.8 4.4 24.8 48.6 Deferred tax credit relating to 99.4 105.5 204.9 exceptional impairments provisions Reclassification 5.2 5.1 0.1 2.8 3.0 Disposal of subsidiary 3.7 3.7 Charge deferred in equity 2.3 0.5 0.3 2.1 At 1 January 2017 984.6 220.6 11.3 56.7 80.2 0.7 798.1 Charge credit to income 2.7 99.1 2.1 24.1 123.8 Charge deferred in equity 1.8 0.5 1.3 Reclassifications 1.8 1.8 At 31 December 2017 987.3 117.9 11.3 59.3 104.3 0.7 925.0 The charge to the income statement of $123.8 million 2016 $48.6 million includes a credit for foreign exchange differences of $0.1 million 2016 includes a credit of $1.1 million.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balance after offset : 2017 2016 $m $m Deferred tax assets 69.1 82.8 Deferred tax liabilities 994.1 880.9 Net deferred tax balances 925.0 798.1 At 31 December 2017, the Group had unused tax losses of $83.5 million 2016 $7.4 million available for offset against future profits.
The deferred tax asset by nil has been recognised in respect of these losses in 2017 2016 $2.7 million.
These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At 31 December 2017, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was $5,303.4 million 2016 $4,826.8 million.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is likely that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates are insignificant.
The deferred tax balance of $925.0 million 2016 $798.1 million includes $1,041.2 million 2016 $878.8 million due in more than one year.
All amounts are shown as non-current on the face of the balance sheet as required by IAS 12.
28 DECOMMISSIONING & RESTORATION PROVISIONS 2017 2016 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 392.1 394.0 Charge to operating profit in the year 39.8 9.3 Unwind of discount to net interest in the year 7.2 5.5 Capitalised adjustment to provision 3.5 16.9 Reclassification 0.1 1.1 Utilised in year 2.6 3.7 Disposal 35.8 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.1 4.8 Balance at the end of the year 433.0 392.1 Decommissioning and restoration costs relate to the Groups mining operations.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular independent formal review.
It is estimated that the provision will be utilised from 2024 until 2063 based on current mine plans.
180 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 180 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 SHARE CAPITAL AND OTHER RESERVES I Share capital The ordinary share capital of the Company is as follows: 2017 2016 2017 2016 Number Number $m $m Authorised Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,300,000,000 1,300,000,000 118.9 118.9 2017 2016 2017 2016 Number Number $m $m Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 5p each 985,865,695 985,865,695 89.8 89.8 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting.
There were no changes in the authorised or issued share capital of the Company in either 2016 or 2017.
Details of the Companys preference share capital, which is included within borrowings in accordance with IAS 32, are given in Note 22A xiv.
II Other reserves and retained earnings Details of the share premium account, hedging, fair value and translation reserves and retained earnings for both 2017 and 2016 are included within the consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 134.
2017 2016 $m $m 1 Hedging reserves At 1 January 8.8 44.1 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value losses 16.8 2.4 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 18.0 4.1 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted units, net of tax 3.1 Share of other comprehensive gains of equity accounted units, net of tax transferred to the income statement 31.6 5 Reclassification 8.0 Tax on the above 0.8 1.1 At 31 December 0.4 8.8 2 Available-for-sale revaluation reserves At 1 January 11.2 12.9 Gains on available-for-sale investment 1.4 1.7 At 31 December 9.8 11.2 3 Foreign currency translation reserves At 1 January 2.3 2.3 Currency translation reclassified on disposal At 31 December 2.3 2.3 Total other reserves per balance sheet 12.5 22.3 Retained earnings At 1 January 6,548.6 6,416.4 Parent and subsidiaries profit for the year 690.9 269.3 Equity accounted units gains losses after tax for the year 59.7 111.3 4 Actuarial gains 5.8 5.1 5 Reclassification 9.6 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 1.1 0.3 Total comprehensive income for the year 7,294.3 6,579.2 Dividends paid 252.4 30.6 At 31 December 7,041.9 6,548.6 1.
The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity through other comprehensive income, as described in Note 24.
The available-for-sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to available-for-sale investment, as described in Note 18.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign-controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve.
The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
Actuarial gains or losses relating to longterm employee benefits, as described in Note 26.
Mainly compromises an $8.8 million reclassification between the hedging reserve and retained earnings.
co. uk 181 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS The non-controlling interests of the Group during 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Share of profit Disposal Hedging and Non-Controlling At for the financial Share of of non-controlling actuarial At Interest 1 January 2017 year dividends interest gains losses 31 December 2017 % Country $m $m $m $m $m $m Los Pelambres 40.0 Chile 901.1 342.1 320.0 1.9 925.1 Centinela 30.0 Chile 848.5 93.7 0.1 942.3 Antucoya 30.0 Chile 55.2 11.3 0.3 44.2 Total 1,694.4 447.1 320.0 1.7 1,823.2 Share of Disposal Non-Controlling At profit losses of non-controlling Hedging and At Interest 1 January 2016 for the financial year Share of dividends interest actuarial gains 31 December 2016 % Country $m $m $m $m $m $m Los Pelambres 40.0 Chile 1,040.4 97.9 260.0 22.8 901.1 Centinela 30.0 Chile 814.1 32.8 1.6 848.5 Michilla 0.1 Chile 0.1 0.1 Antucoya 30.0 Chile 18.6 74.3 0.5 55.2 Total 1,873.2 56.4 260.0 0.1 24.9 1,694.4 The proportion of the voting rights is proportional with the economic interest under the companies listed above.
Summarised financial position and cash flow information for the years ended 2017 and 2016 is set out below: Los Pelambres Centinela Antucoya 2017 2017 2017 $m $m $m Non-controlling interest % 40.0% 30.0% 30.0% Cash and cash equivalent 241.8 353.0 158.9 Current assets 457.4 809.2 207.5 Non-currents assets 2,981.7 4,770.1 1,366.5 Current liabilities 584.6 862.4 198.5 Non-currents liabilities 827.4 1,773.1 1,686.8 Accumulated non-controlling interest Net cash flow from operating activities 1,277.0 68.1 240.7 Net cash flow from investing activities 272.8 573.6 75.7 Net cash flow from financing activities 908.7 150.0 160.5 Los Pelambres Centinela Antucoya 2016 2016 2016 $m $m $m Non-controlling interest % 40.0% 30.0% 30.0% Cash and cash equivalent 143.0 384.0 152.9 Current assets 645.5 890.1 334.8 Non-currents assets 2,960.7 4,117.9 1,405.7 Current liabilities 638.9 631.7 166.2 Non-currents liabilities 729.3 1,347.6 919.1 Accumulated non-controlling interest 901.3 848.6 55.6 Net cash flow from operating activities 907.3 523.6 50.6 Net cash flow from investing activities 215.2 555.1 9.0 Net cash flow from financing activities 711.1 150.0 36.1 Notes to the summarised financial position and cash flow i The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are based on the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements i. e. 100% of the results and balances of the subsidiary rather than the non-controlling interest proportionate share before inter-company eliminations.
ii Summarised income statement information is shown in the segment information in Note 5.
182 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 182 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT A Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash inflow from operating activities 2017 2016 $m $m Profit before tax from continuing operations 1,830.8 284.6 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 0.6 35.1 Depreciation and amortisation 581.1 578.4 Net loss on disposals 8.3 19.7 Impairment 456.6 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 0.6 35.1 Net finance expense 70.0 71.1 Share of results from associates and joint ventures 59.7 111.3 Increase decrease in inventories 55.0 3.9 Decrease increase in debtors 5.9 124.9 Increase in creditors 61.6 47.7 Increase in provisions 52.0 8.9 Cash flow from operations from continuing and discontinued operations 2,495.0 1,457.3 B Analysis of changes in net debt Movement At Re-classification between At 1 January Cash to disposal Fair value New Amortisation of Capitalisation maturity 31 December 2017 flows group gains leases finance costs of interest categories Other Exchange 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 716.3 361.0 2.2 8.5 1,083.6 Liquid investments 1,332.2 166.1 2.6 1,168.7 Total cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments 2,048.5 194.9 2.2 2.6 8.5 2,252.3 Borrowings due within one year 814.2 267.5 185.5 732.2 Borrowings due after one year 2,198.4 186.0 3.9 27.8 185.5 1,858.6 Finance leases due within one year 22.5 1.3 0.2 0.1 21.5 Finance leases due after one year 82.6 32.2 34.1 6.6 2.3 93.4 Preference shares 2.5 0.1 0.6 3.0 Total borrowings 3,120.2 487.1 34.1 3.9 27.8 6.8 3.0 2,708.7 Net debt cash 1,071.7 682.0 2.2 2.6 34.1 3.9 27.8 6.8 5.5 456.4 Movement At Reclassification between At 1 January Cash to disposal Fair value New Amortisation Capitalisation maturity 31 December 2016 flows group gains leases of finance costs of interest categories Other Exchange 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 807.5 113.1 10.0 11.9 716.3 Liquid investments 924.1 406.9 1.2 1,332.2 Total cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments 1,731.6 293.8 10.0 1.2 11.9 2,048.5 Borrowings due within one year 753.4 60.8 814.2 Borrowings due after one year 1,963.3 245.7 19.4 30.8 60.8 2,198.4 Finance leases due within one year 5.5 17.1 0.1 22.5 Finance leases due after one year 29.9 31.2 94.5 4.4 17.1 2.1 82.6 Preference shares 3.0 0.5 2.5 Total borrowings 2,755.1 214.5 94.5 19.4 30.8 4.4 1.5 3,120.2 Net debt cash 1,023.5 79.3 10.0 1.2 94.5 19.4 30.8 4.4 10.3 1,071.7 antofagasta.
co. uk 183 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT CONTINUED C Net debt 2017 2016 $m $m Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 2,252.3 2,048.5 Total borrowings 2,708.7 3,120.2 456.4 1,071.7 32 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 2017 2016 $m $m Minimum lease payments expense under operating leases recognised for the year 140.6 70.3 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Within one year 94.1 75.1 In their second to fifth years inclusive 78.3 37.0 After five years 172.4 112.1 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of plant and equipment by operating subsidiaries of the Group.
33 EXCHANGE RATES IN US DOLLARS Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into dollars and sterling at the period-end rates of exchange.
Results denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into dollars at the average rate for each period.
2017 2016 Year-end rates $1.3535 1: $1.2185 1: $1 Ch$614.75 $1 Ch$669.47 $1.2878 1: $1.3593 1: Average rates $1 Ch$649.19 $1 Ch$676.80 184 Antofagasta Annual Report 2017 184 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are disclosed below.
The transactions which Group companies entered into with related parties who are not members of the Group are set out below.
There are no guarantees given or received and no provisions for doubtful debts related to the amount of outstanding balances.
A Quienco SA Quienco SA Quienco is a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate, the shares of which are traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
The Group and Quienco are both under the control of the Luksic family, and three Directors of the Company, Jean-Paul Luksic, Andronico Luksic and Gonzalo Menndez, are also directors of Quienco.
The following transactions took place between the Group and the Quienco group of companies, all of which were on normal commercial terms: the Group earned interest income of $0.6 million 2016 $0.1 million during the year on deposits with Banco fide Chile SA, a subsidiary of Quienco.
Deposit balances at the end of the year were $18.0 million 2016 $34.5 million : the Group earned interest income of $0.4 million 2016 $0.3 million during the year on investments with BanChile Corredores fide Bolsa SA, a subsidiary of Quienco.
Investment balances at the end of the year were $16.5 million 2016 nil : the Group made purchases of fuel from ENEX SA, a subsidiary of Quienco, of $185.3 million 2016 $161.6 million.
The balance due to ENEX SA at the end of the year was nil 2016 nil.
B Compaa fide Inversiones Adritico SA In 2017, the Group leased office space on normal commercial terms from Compaa fide Inversiones Adritico SA, a company controlled by the Luksic family, at a cost of $0.6 million 2016 less than $0.6 million.
C Antomin Limited, Antomin 2 Limited and Antomin Investors Limited The Group holds a 51% interest in Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors, which own a number of copper exploration properties.
The Group originally acquired its 51% interest in these properties for a nominal consideration from Mineralinvest Establishment, which continues to hold the remaining 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors.
Mineralinvest is owned by a Liechtenstein foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
During the year ended 31 December 2017 the Group incurred $0.6 million year ended 31 December 2016 $1.0 million of exploration work at these properties.
D Tethyan Copper Company Limited As explained in Note 17 the Group has a 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation over Tethyans mineral interests in Pakistan.
During 2017 the Group contributed $9.3 million 2016 $10.0 million to Tethyan.
E Energa Andina SA As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 50.1% interest in Energia Andina SA, which is a joint venture with Origin Energy Geothermal Chile Limitada for the evaluation and development of potential sources of geothermal and solar energy.
During the year ended 31 December 2017 the Group contributed $0.1 million to Energa Andina 2016 $1.0 million.
F Compaia Minera Zaldvar SpA The Group has a 50% interest in Minera Zaldvar which was acquired on 1 December 2015 see Note 16, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation.
Antofagasta is the operator of Zaldvar from 1 December 2015 onwards.
The balance due from Zaldvar to Group companies at the end of the year was $5.2 million 2016 $4.2 million.
During 2017 the Group received dividends from Minera Zaldivar of $60.0 million 2016 nil.
G Inversiones Hornitos SA As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos SA, which is accounted for as an associate.
The Group paid $175.2 million year ended 31 December 2016 $144.0 million to Inversiones Hornitos in relation to the energy supply contract at Centinela.
During 2017 the Group received dividends from Inversiones Hornitos SA of $21.8 million 2016 $10.2 million.
H Parque Elico El Arrayan SA As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 30% interest in Parque Elico El Arrayn SA El Arrayn, which is accounted for as an associate.
The Group paid $39.7 million year ended 31 December 2016 $23.2 million to El Arrayn in relation to the energy supply contract at Los Pelambres.
I Directors and other key management personnel Information relating to Directors remuneration and interests is given in the Remuneration Report on page 102.
Information relating to the remuneration of key management personnel including the Directors is given in Note 8.
35 ULTIMATE PARENT COMPANY The immediate parent of the Group is Metalinvest Establishment, which is controlled by E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
Both Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation are domiciled in Liechtenstein.
Information relating to the interest of Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation is given in the Directors Report.
