NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2017 1.
Presentation of the consolidated financial statements 1.1 General information Vectura Group plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Groups operations and principal activities are described in the Strategic report.
The Group is defined as the Company, its subsidiaries and equity-accounted associates.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, asadopted by the European Union EU-IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The financial information has been prepared on the historical cost basis modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments and the recognition of net assets acquired including contingent liabilities assumed through business combination assets attheir fair value on the acquisition date, modified by the revaluation of certain items, as stated in the accounting policies.
The Groups activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review.
The Group has made a loss for the year, however, it continues to be cash generative.
A summary of the Groups financial position, cash generated in the year and accounting loss made after non-cash amortisation charges is included within the Financial review.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with a number of customers across different geographic areas and jurisdictions.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and as such they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The financial statements of the parent company, Vectura Group plc UK company number 03418970, have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The Company balance sheet is presented immediately after these consolidated financial statements which comprise the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income, Consolidated balance sheet, Consolidated statement of changes in equity, Consolidated cash flow statement and accompanying notes to the financial statements.
All financial information is presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest 0.1m.
Previously issued financial information and other relevant resources are made available on our website: www.
1.2 Prior period Skyepharma merger and the comparability of financial periods The results of Skyepharma have been included in the 2016 nine-month comparative numbers from the date of the merger on 10 June 2016 to 31 December 2016.
In order to assist users to evaluate underlying trends and like for like performance given the differing comparative periods, the Directors have provided certain unaudited proforma information in the Financial review.
1.3 Alternative performance measures APMs Adjusted measures, which are used in these financial statements are also used by the Board and management for planning and reporting.
These measures are also used in discussions with the investment analyst community.
APMs are not displayed with more prominence, emphasis or authority than IFRS measures.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation, adding back charges for depreciation and share-based payments.
Refer to note 8 Adjusted EBITDA.
Underlying revenues are core ongoing revenue streams relating to licence royalties, product supply revenues and share of net sales of EXPAREL.
Non-recurring revenues comprise project milestones and services which can vary significantly each period and discontinued end-of-life licence royalties, or royalties currently suspended owing to ongoing patent disputes.
Exceptional items are presented whenever significant expenses are incurred or income is received as a result of events considered to be outside the normal course of business, where the unusual nature and expected infrequency merits separate presentation to assist comparisons with previous periods.
Refer to note 10 Exceptional items.
Items which are included within the exceptional category include: costs associated with major corporate transactions: Board-approved spend on the integration of major corporate transactions: and other major transformation programmes.
Furthermore, significant and unusual items of litigation e. g. GSK litigation and significant and unusual items which individually distort theunderlying performance of the business and therefore warrant highlighting separately to the users of the accounts, e. g. one-off research and development project historical accruals release, are also included within exceptional items.
1.4 Critical accounting areas of judgment and estimation In preparing these consolidated financial statements, critical judgements in the application of accounting policies can have a significant effect on the financial results: moreover, any changes in critical estimates and assumptions made could materially impact the amounts ofassets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported next year as actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates or those estimates could change in future.
122 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Presentation of the consolidated financial statements continued 1.4 Critical accounting areas of judgment and estimation continued The following critical accounting judgements are made in the application of accounting policies: Revenue recognition on collaborative development and marketing arrangements spanning multiple periods The Group enters into a wide variety of collaborative agreements with partners which may span several reporting periods and involve multiple revenue streams.
Significant judgement is often required in assessing the obligations under such contracts and the revenue and costs that are applicable to be allocated to each reporting period.
For royalty income, judgement is exercised as management are not directly responsible for the sale of the product to the market they prepare an estimate of the level of royalties to be earned and compare this to external sales data reported by partners and royalty statements received.
For product supply of flutiform, the Group is reliant on a third-party supplier notifying the point at which the transfer of the risks and rewards occurs which is when the goods are available for collection bythe licensing partner.
The recognition of income from non-recurring milestones requires an assessment of the Groups future obligations under the applicable contract, such as when development or sales targets have been met, to determine the most suitable revenue recognition profile.
Further details are included in significant accounting policy 2.3 Current revenue recognition on an IAS 18 Revenue basis.
Uncertain tax positions A provision for an uncertain tax position is recognised within current tax liabilities relating to recent utilisation of historical losses claimed inan overseas jurisdiction.
The provision is recognised on the basis of the Groups interpretation of inherently complex tax legislation.
Thejudgement of whether and how much to provide is formed after taking external professional advice, and is based on Managements judgement of the potential tax that could be assessed as due.
The provision is recognised at 5.0m 2016: 0.9m in Corporation tax payable on the Balance sheet.
This provision is partially released to the Consolidated income statement as each annual Statute of Limitation when the tax authority can enquire into each return is closed, with the uncertainty expected to be fully resolved by 2021.
This provision excludes any potential interest and penalties which could be levied on the Group.
The Group have recognised a contingent liability in respect of penalties, which, based on external advice, could range from 0 to 40% of unpaid tax, with a maximum of 20% considered appropriate.
This would result in estimated penalties of up to 1.0m, but this payment is not considered probable.
Refer to note 31 Commitments and contingent liabilities.
The following critical estimates if changed next year would materially impact reported performance: Impairment of intangible assets acquired through the Skyepharma and Activaero business combinations Intangible assets are reviewed for indications of impairment and, where such indicators exist, a full impairment test is performed to ensure the recoverable amount is higher than the carrying value.
Impairment tests are based on internal risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted topresent value.
Some of the more significant assumptions include the estimated net cash flows for each year for each asset or product, including net revenues, directly attributable costs, and the probability of successful commercialisation, the appropriate discount rate to select to measure the inherent risk in each future cash flow stream, and the assessment of each assets life cycle.
As these valuations are based on Board-approved budgets they are inherently judgemental.
The sensitivity of intangible assets to downside scenarios is presented within note 16 Intangible assets.
Useful economic lives of intangible assets acquired through the Skyepharma and Activaero business combinations Intangible assets relating to on-market products are amortised with reference to average patent lives in the most applicable territories.
Thekey estimate is which patent or midpoint of the patents to use, due to the varying strength of the patents and different time periods for different territories.
Given the size of the values any point in that range would have a significant impact.
Intangible assets relating to smart nebuliser-based technology acquired through the Activaero acquisition and leveraged in various development programmes are amortised in line with the expected consumption of economic benefits.
These may change, for example on approval of a product incorporating the technology and in such cases, the useful economic life UEL is reviewed and adjusted accordingly.
If the UEL changes the Groups financial statements would be significantly impacted through changes to amortisation and deferred tax.
Actuarial assumptions applied to the Swiss pension benefits in the application of accounting policies The Group operates a pension scheme in respect of its employees in Switzerland.
As some of the risks of the scheme match the criteria under IAS 19 Employee Benefits for a defined benefit plan, the scheme is accounted for as such.
Application of IAS 19 involves estimates about uncertain future events based on independent actuarial valuation reports.
The defined benefit obligation is sensitive to the actuarial assumptions outlined in note 24 Retirement benefit obligations.
Deferred tax liabilities The measurement of deferred tax liabilities takes account of relevant timing differences and tax legislation in the appropriate jurisdiction.
As the rate in Switzerland currently depends on the status of the company, an estimated blended rate is applied for deferred tax valuation which reflects the effective tax rate of the Swiss entities, and there has been no change to the estimate in 2017.
The deferred tax liabilities relate to a number of specific items, of which the classes are disclosed in note 25 Deferred tax liabilities.
It should be noted that, whilst there is no current impact to the deferred tax balances recognised, or the rate applied, the deferred tax liabilities in respect of Switzerland are particularly sensitive to any future Swiss tax reform.
As this is likely, future periods result could bematerially impacted as a result of adopting the enacted Swiss tax rate from the reform.
This disclosure is not a significant estimate inthe scope of IAS 1.125, but is provided as an additional disclosure to highlight the potential impact of the Swiss tax reform.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
Significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of consolidation These consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated financial statements of Vectura Group plc, its subsidiaries and equity-accounted associates for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has direct or indirect control.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the activities of the entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Group and are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
All of the Groups material trading entities are wholly owned subsidiaries, where the Group holds 100% of the share capital.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Group accounting policies are consistently applied to all entities and transactions.
2.2 Foreign currency translation and transactions Results of the Groups overseas entities are translated into the UK sterling presentational currency of the Group using monthly average exchange rates.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of overseas net assets are recognised in the translation reserve and recycled to the Consolidated income statement upon any full disposal.
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the original cash-generating unit CGU to which it was allocated on acquisition.
Fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities denominated in the currency of the overseas operation.
Any exchange differences on intercompany funding loans are deferred to equity, to the extent that these are considered permanent in accordance with IAS 21 Foreign Exchange.
Trading entities have a functional currency consistent with the denomination of cash inflows and outflows, being also consistent with the primary currency of their location.
Local market transactions in a different currency to each local functional currency are translated using average exchange rates, provided these are materially similar to the spot rate on the transaction date.
These foreign exchange differences are recognised in the same category in the Consolidated income statement as the underlying transaction, except for milestone and royalty revenues, where foreign exchange is presented within net finance expense income.
2.3 Current revenue recognition under existing IAS 18 Revenue guidance Revenue represents the amount receivable for goods and services provided and royalties earned, net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Revenues from partnering contracts with multiple revenue streams or conditions are recognised separately in line with the contractual terms and the nature of the revenue streams.
Revenues are recognised when the Groups obligations related to the revenues have been discharged and their collection is reasonably assured as follows: 2.3.
1 Royalty income Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis and represents income earned as a percentage of partner product sales in accordance with the terms of each agreement, net of amounts payable to other licensees.
As management are not directly responsible for the sale of the product to the market they prepare an estimate the level of royalties to be earned and compare this to external sales data reported by partners and royalty statements received.
2 Share of net sales of EXPAREL The Group is entitled to receive a percentage of net sales of EXPAREL based on cash received by Pacira in the USA, Japan, UK, France, Germany, Italy and Spain until the expiry of certain patents.
The recognition of these amounts is in line with the royalty income recognition as per 2.3.
3 Signing and milestone payments Signing and milestone payments represent amounts earned for licences or payments relating to development achievements.
Upfront signing milestones received on entering collaborative development agreements, as per industry practice, are deferred onto the Balance sheet and then subsequently released to revenue over the appropriate stage of completion of the development services provided.
Milestone payments received in advance are treated as deferred until the milestone is achieved.
Milestones which are contingent upon achieving a development or sales target are recognised when achieving them is virtually certain and recovery is assured.
4 Development services Development services revenues principally comprise of contract product development and contract clinical trial manufacturing fees invoiced tothird parties.
Revenues are recognised upon the completion of agreed tasks or spread over the duration of the task, as appropriate.
5 Product supply and device sales Product supply revenues, being income derived from manufacturing and supply agreements, are generally recognised upon transfer tothe customer of significant risks and rewards, usually upon the goods being available for collection and the customer being informed ofthis and where the sales price is agreed and collectability is reasonably assured.
124 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.4 Segmental reporting The Group is managed on the basis of a single reportable segment, being the development and supply of pharmaceutical products.
This is consistent with the internal reporting provided to, and regularly reviewed by, the chief operating decision maker CODM.
The CODM is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segment and has been identified as the Board.
2.5 Research and development R&D expenses R&D expenses comprise internal employee costs and third-party service costs relating to feasibility studies, technical development, costs ofchemistry, manufacturing of trial batches, clinical work and the registration and maintenance of intellectual property.
As the nature ofour R&D projects is associated with obtaining regulatory approval, these costs rarely meet the IAS 38 criteria for capitalisation and arenormally charged to the Consolidated income statement as the expenses are incurred.
2.6 Other income Other income relates to government grants for qualifying UK R&D under the research and development expenditure credit RDEC scheme for large companies.
Such grants are taxable and are presented as other income in the Consolidated income statement.
2.7 Current taxation The net taxation credit on the loss for the year includes current and deferred tax.
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year and any adjustment to the tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years.
Theamount of current tax payable or receivable is the best estimate of the tax amount expected to be paid or received using tax rates enacted at the reporting date.
2.8 Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the local tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts inthe Groups consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is not discounted and is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability issettled, based on legislation enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
2.9 Goodwill On acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, the fair value of the consideration in excess of the identifiable net assets and liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually, or more frequently where there is an indication of possible impairment.
Goodwill is held in the functional currency of the CGU to which it was originally allocated for impairment testing, reflecting the original assessment of which CGUs would benefit from synergies from the combination.
Following any significant reorganisation the denomination of goodwill is not changed but could be reallocated to different CGUs, being the lowest identifiable level that goodwill is monitored for the purposes of annual impairment testing.
2.10 Intangible assets Intangible assets predominantly relate to on-market licences, patents and marketing rights separately acquired as part of the Skyepharma merger on 10 June 2016.
The fair values of patents and licences relating to on-market products acquired were aggregated by product and initially measured at fair value.
This fair value is subsequently amortised over estimated useful economic lives UEL.
Intangible assets relating to on-market products are amortised with reference to average patent lives in the most applicable territories.
Intangible assets also include smart nebuliser-based technology FAVORITE separately acquired through the Activaero transaction on 13March 2014 and leveraged in development programmes including VR475 FAVOLIR and VR647 SCIPE.
These assets are amortised inline with the expected consumption of economic benefits.
UEL assumptions do not exceed eight years and amortisation is applied on a straight-line basis.
2.11 Property, plant and equipment PP&E PP&E is initially recognised at cost, with depreciation subsequently applied evenly over its estimated life, less any residual value.
PP&E isdepreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives, as follows: Land and buildings 20 to 50 years Laboratory and supply chain equipment 3 to 10 years PP&E for the flutiform supply chain is depreciated using the units-of-production method.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets under construction.
On disposal of PP&E, the carrying value, less any proceeds, is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.12 Impairment of non-current assets Impairment of goodwill is assessed by measuring the future cash flows of the CGU to which the goodwill relates versus the carrying value of the CGU.
An impairment loss is recognised for goodwill in the Consolidated income statement when the carrying value of the CGU is less than its future cash flows.
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed in subsequent periods.
The carrying values of all other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment, either on a standalone basis or as part of a larger cash-generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets might be impaired.
2.13 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs include the direct costs and, where applicable, an allocation of overheads incurred in bringing inventories to their current location and condition.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less any further costs expected to complete the sale of goods.
2.14 Financial instruments For the purposes of recognition and measurement financial assets are classified into one of these categories: Trading activities: assets that are held for collection of contractual trading cash flows are measured at amortised cost.
A gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated income statement only when the asset is derecognised or impaired.
Interest income is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method if applicable.
Financial assets held for future sale: assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income OCI.
In instances where the financial assets meets neither category, they are measured at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL.
Due to the short-term nature of the current receivables, their carrying amount is considered to be the same as their invoice amount as interest is not applicable to the contract.
For trade receivables, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, which requires expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
2.15 Provisions Provisions are liabilities where the exact timing and amount of the obligation is uncertain.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has apresent obligation legal or constructive as a result of past events, when an outflow of resources is probable to settle the obligation and when an amount can be reliably estimated.
Where the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted tocurrent values using appropriate rates of interest.
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in net finance income or expense.
2.16 Retirement obligations The Groups obligations for its Swiss pension scheme are to pay defined contributions.
However, in accordance with the Swiss law LPP BVG, the pension scheme incorporates certain guarantees, and has therefore been reported as a defined benefit pension plan inaccordance with IFRS.
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields of high-quality corporate bonds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, and the return on plan assets excluding interest, are recognised immediately in OCI.
When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a participant is curtailed, the resulting gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
2.17 Share-based payments The Group operates a number of employee equity-settled share-based compensation plans as part of the Total Reward Strategy.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the awards is expensed over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of awards that will eventually vest.
The cost of equity-settled share transactions isrecognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the vesting period.
2.18 Employee share trusts The Group provides finance to ESOP trusts to either purchase company shares on the open market, or to subscribe for newly issued share capital, to meet the Groups obligation to provide shares when employees exercise their options or awards.
Costs of running the ESOP trusts are charged to the Consolidated income statement.
Shares held by the ESOP trusts are deducted from reserves and presented in equity as own shares until such time that an employee exercises their award.
2.19 Share buyback and cancellation programme As repurchased shares are cancelled immediately after being bought back, the amount of the consideration paid and directly attributable costs are booked to retained earnings.
126 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.20 New accounting requirements Adopted in the period IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The Group adopted IFRS 9 on 1 January 2017, albeit it had no financial impact on either the current or comparative period.
IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities and introduces new rules for hedge accounting, anew impairment model for financial assets and early recognition of expected credit losses.
The Group is not involved with complex financial instruments, has not to date applied hedge accounting, nor has any history of material credit losses.
As such, the only impact of adoption has been on disclosures.
IFRS 9 provides a new hedge accounting model which is optional to apply and is closer aligned to commercial activities, such that it may in the future be applied if the Board deem applicable.
Adopted in the period IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration IFRIC 22 clarifies the date of the transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of advanced payments for assets or liabilities for deferred income.
This guidance has been adopted in advance of formal EU endorsement, which is expected imminently, as it provides additional clarification to the application of existing accounting policies rather than any amendments tothose policies.
The date that payments are made is the reference date for foreign exchange and should not be remeasured for changes in exchange rates occurring afterwards on the date of recognition of the transaction to which that consideration relates.
2.21 New standards not adopted that will be adopted in the next reporting period IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Group will have to apply IFRS 15 to the next reporting period as it will be mandatory to do so.
IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, when and how much revenue is recognised in each reporting period, which is particularly relevant for longer-term development, licensing and marketing contracts.
Transitional impact of IFRS 15 on Vectura cumulative effect method The Group has performed an IFRS 15 assessment on all revenue contracts, taking advantage of the practical expedient available removing the requirement to apply IFRS 15 to contracts that are considered completed on 1 January 2018.
A contract is considered complete once all performance obligations relevant to the receipt of future revenues have been satisfied.
Thisapplies to all royalties for licences of on-market products.
The existing IAS 18 treatment is maintained, which is compliant with IFRS15guidance for sales and usage-based license royalties.
Product supply performance obligations arise on receipt of customer purchase orders to transfer inventory to the customer.
As there is only one performance obligation to allocate revenues across, the new guidance will not generate a difference consistent with the current treatment.
However, 2017 revenues are estimated to be 0.5m higher on an IFRS 15 basis due to accelerated recognition of development revenues, but this review is ongoing.
Itisnot expected that IFRS 15 will result in a material impact on underlying core revenue streams royalties, product supply and share ofnet sales.
Because the impact of this transitional adjustment is limited, the Group plans to adopt IFRS 15 using the cumulative effect method through equity as opposed to restating the 2017 comparative when reporting the 2018 results.
Impact of IFRS 15 on subsequent periods Previous industry practice was to spread upfront signing milestones over the development period, on a basis consistent with the service being provided, irrespective of whether a licence is transferred on signing.
However, IFRS 15 requires an assessment be made of how much of the signing milestone relates to R&D services and how much relates to the licence.
The revenue allocated to the licence performance obligation will be recognised when the licence is transferred, which is normally upon signing consistent with current treatment, and the amount allocated to R&D services will be recognised as that service is delivered.
The Group is required to identify performance obligations in its agreements under IFRS 15.
In certain cases, performance obligations identified under an IFRS 15 assessment may differ from those under the current accounting policy assessments, thereby altering the timing of revenue recognition and classification between income streams.
Acceleration of development milestones where future receipt is considered probable: the receipt of future development-stage milestones will be accelerated to the extent that their future receipt is considered highly probable and significant reversal of revenue will not occur in the future.
It is therefore expected that a significantly higher proportion of signing milestones will be recognised immediately on entering into new collaborative arrangements.
2.22 New standards not adopted mandatory at 1 January 2019 The following standards and interpretations are mandatory for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 with early adoption possible.
At present the Group has not adopted these but indicates the likely future impact below.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and introduces a single lessee accounting model where the lessee is required to recognise assets and liabilities for all material leases that have a term of greater than a year.
There are recognition exemptions for short-term leases and leases of low-value items.
The Group has completed an initial impact assessment on its consolidated financial statements but has not yet completed its detailed assessment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.22 New standards not adopted mandatory at 1 January 2019 continued IFRS 16 Leases continued The Group has operating lease commitments of 6.6m 2016: 7.5m as disclosed in note 31 Commitments and contingent liabilities.
TheIFRS 16 lease liability is expected to be in the region of 4.5m on initial recognition based on the current lease portfolio.
A corresponding asset of approximately 2.5m reflecting the Groups right to use the asset will also be recognised.
Rental charges of approximately 1.0m will be recognised outside of adjusted EBITDA, replaced with additional interest and depreciation of a similar value.
As a detailed assessment has yet to be performed it is unclear what other adjustments, if any, will be required upon initial adoption.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments IFRIC 23 has been issued to clarify the accounting for uncertainty within tax positions.
This guidance precedes significant changes expected to tax legislation across a number of jurisdictions applicable to locations in which the Group operates.
The application of a weighted average probability to the interpretation of uncertain country-specific tax legislation would not materially reduce the value of assets and liabilities recognised in these consolidated financial statements.
However, it is not possible to assess how this new guidance will impact reported tax balances from 2019 onwards.
A far-reaching proposal to reform the current Swiss tax regime currently lacks clarification as to the application and transitional arrangements at both federal and cantonal level.
It also remains unclear as to the terms and timing of the planned UK exit from the European Union and the associated impact on tax legislation.
2.23 Comparative period accounting for the Skyepharma merger the merger The acquisition method of accounting was applied to Skyepharma on the merger date with assets and liabilities recognised at their fair value on the acquisition date, in accordance with IFRS 3.
An overview of the impact is provided below.
Refer to note 27 Prior period business combination Skyepharma merger.
10 June 2016 m Intangible assets recognised at fair value on the merger date 379.5 Property, plant and equipment 39.5 Fair value of current net assets acquired 28.3 Net deferred tax liabilities 56.3 Fair value of other net assets acquired 16.3 Fair value of Skyepharma net assets acquired 374.7 Goodwill recognised 100.8 Refer to note 15 Goodwill, note 16 Intangible assets and note 25 Deferred tax liabilities for the most significant areas of the financial statements impacted by the subsequent measurement of the acquisition balance sheet.
Revenue Revenue by income stream 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Product supply and device sales 74.7 50.3 Royalties 50.1 32.0 Net sales from EXPAREL 6.6 3.5 Underlying revenue 131.4 85.8 Signing and milestone payments 5.1 20.5 Development services 9.0 4.5 Royalties 2.5 15.5 Other 0.2 Non-recurring revenue 16.6 40.7 Total revenue 148.0 126.5 Underlying revenue relates to core revenues comprising licence royalties, product supply revenues and share of net sales of EXPAREL.
Revenues from non-recurring sources comprise of milestones and development services revenues, which can vary materially between reporting periods and non-recurring royalties related to the discontinued royalties from ADVATE and the termination of legacy Vectura royalties with GSK for the Ellipta products which is currently subject to a legal dispute refer to note 10 Exceptional items.
128 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
Revenue continued Revenue by geographic location 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m United Kingdom 49.2 45.6 Japan 33.0 17.7 Switzerland 27.3 20.1 Rest of Europe 15.3 11.3 United States of America 13.8 31.3 Rest of world 9.4 0.5 Total revenue 148.0 126.5 The geographic split of revenue is based on the location of the customer being invoiced, as opposed to the country in which products are delivered or services are provided to patients.
Revenue from major customers For the year ended 31 December 2017 three customers contributed individually in excess of 10% of total revenue as follows: Customer A 35.2m, Customer B 33.0m and Customer C 17.1m.
In the comparative nine-month period revenue earned from the Groups major customers was as follows: Customer A 31.0m, Customer B 22.4m, Customer C 17.6m and Customer D 13.3m.
Segmental information The Group is managed on the basis of a single reportable segment, being the development and supply of pharmaceutical products, and as such no separate segmental information is provided as it would not be different from the Consolidated income statement.
The chief operating decision maker, represented by the Board, allocates resources on the basis of integrated management information, which focuses on adjusted EBITDA as detailed in note 8.
Non-current assets by geographical location are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Switzerland 356.7 442.6 United Kingdom 106.1 103.0 Germany 71.9 94.5 United States of America 11.6 30.9 France 11.0 7.4 Total non-current assets 557.3 678.4 5.
Research and development expenses 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Vectura enhanced assets 34.2 21.1 Novel patented molecule partnering projects 14.3 15.0 Generic analogue and device partnering projects 9.5 8.7 Other oral projects 2.3 0.8 Total research and development expenses 60.3 45.6 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 129 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 6.
Employees The average number of full-time equivalent employees were as follows: 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Number Number Research and development and related support services 310 281 Business development and corporate administration 19 24 Manufacturing and supply chain 135 97 Total average number of full-time equivalent employees 464 402 Employees at the Swiss R&D and French manufacturing sites were only included for 74% of the comparative nine-month period following the Skyepharma merger which was effective on 10June 2016.
In addition, the above employee data includes staff employed on fixed term contracts to assist with the delivery of integration initiatives, as well as covers for maternity, paternity and illness.
Headcount at the end of the year was 478 2016: 453.
The aggregate remuneration of employees was as follows: 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Aggregate remuneration m m Wages and salaries 34.6 22.8 Social security costs 4.8 3.8 Payments to defined benefit pension plans 0.7 0.7 Payments to defined contribution pension plans 2.0 0.7 Total aggregate remuneration 42.1 28.0 Directors remuneration is detailed in the Remuneration report and key management personnel is detailed in note 32 Related-party transactions.
Other income The Group will claim R&D expenditure credits RDEC of 1.7m in the year ended 31 December 2017 alongside the tax return filing process 2016: 1.5m.
As these credits are subject to corporation tax they are presented as other income.
Other than HMRCs acceptance of the tax return, there are no unfulfilled conditions or other contingencies attaching to this income.
During the year the Group received 2.1m 2016: 2.5m in respect of R&D tax credit claims.
A receivable of 3.8m 2016: 4.5m remains outstanding at the balance sheet date.
Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a non-statutory measure used by the Board, the Executive Leadership Team and managers of the business to monitor the Groups performance as it provides useful information about the business underlying cash-generating performance.
Adjusted EBITDA is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation, adding back charges for share-based payments and depreciation.
9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Note m m Loss before taxation 102.2 40.1 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 16 109.7 64.0 Exceptional items 10 4.5 9.4 Share of movement of associates 11 3.4 0.4 Net finance expense income 12 2.6 4.0 Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation 18.0 28.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17 5.7 3.4 Share-based payments 29 2.1 1.8 Adjusted EBITDA 25.8 34.1 130 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9.
Auditors remuneration Following a competitive tender process, led by the Audit Committee, KPMG LLP and other member firms of the KPMG network were formally appointed as the Groups external auditor at the Annual General Meeting on 25 May 2017.
Deloitte LLP had previously been theGroups auditor since 2007.
KPMG 2016: Deloitte respective fees as the consolidated Groups statutory auditors were as follows: 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Audit of the Groups annual accounts 0.4 0.1 Audit of the Groups subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Total audit fees 0.5 0.2 Other services 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.1 Total fees payable to the Group auditor 0.6 0.2 The fees shown in relation to 2017 were payable to KPMG LLP and those shown in relation to 2016 were payable to Deloitte LLP.
In the comparative period Ernst & Young was retained as auditor for the Groups subsidiaries in Switzerland, France and the United States of America.
In 2017 Ernst & Young remains the statutory auditor for France.
Total audit fees payable to Ernst & Young in 2016 were 0.3m, in addition to the fees included in the above table.
KPMG fees for other services comprise 65,000 for the 2017 interim review and 40,000 of permissible non-audit fees related to its appointment as liquidator of 14 UK dormant subsidiary entities.
Refer to note 5 Disposal of dormant subsidiaries of the parent company financial statements.
Exceptional items 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m 1 Merger transaction costs 6.1 3 Post-merger integration costs 4.5 3.9 2 One-off research and development accrual release 2.2 2 Legal fees 1.8 0.1 4 Other exceptional items 0.4 0.7 Total exceptional items 4.5 9.4 Classification if costs were not presented as exceptional: 1 Classified as corporate and administrative expenses.
2 Classified as research and development expenditure.
3 Classified within corporate and administrative expenses and research and development expenditure.
4 Classified within cost of sales and research and development expenditure.
Post-merger integration costs include 2.7m 2016: 3.0m of one-off instances of spend on projects required to combine the two businesses.
This primarily relates to human resources, finance and information technology and costs from a third-party consultancy to harmonise ways of working and enhance productivity across the UK, Swiss and German R&D functions.
In addition, post-merger integration costs include a share-based payment charge of 1.8m 2016: 0.5m.
Upon completion of the merger, 1,490,982 exceptional nominal awards were granted to key members of management considered critical to the integration process.
These awards vest in full provided that an 18-month or 36-month service condition is met from their September 2016 grant date.
The grant date fair value was 1.41 per share and the total share-based payment charge, reduced when lapses occur, is expensed evenly.
As part of the merger integration and alignment, management has performed a detailed review of the research and development accruals during 2017, including historical accruals.
This activity identified a number of individually immaterial historic accruals where it is no longer considered probable that these accruals will result in future cash outflows.
The accruals, totalling 2.2m, have been released in the 2017 Consolidated income statement and are presented within exceptional items to enable users to understand the impact of the credit on the current year performance.
Management has determined that there is no material impact of the accruals on any comparative income statement, balance sheet or cash flow statement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 10.
Exceptional items continued Legal fees arise from progression of legal proceedings against GSK relating to enforcement of Vecturas patents in respect of the Ellipta products.
Other exceptional items include 0.8m 2016: 0.4m of restructuring at the Groups manufacturing facility in Lyon, France following the facility transferring back to Vectura in July 2016.
The remainder of the restructuring costs will be incurred in 2018.
Other exceptional items also include a 0.2m credit relating to the movement in an onerous lease provision in Switzerland, and gains from Swiss pension curtailments of 0.2m 2016: 1.1m which have been presented as exceptional as they relate to post-merger structuring.
Refer to note 24 Retirement benefit obligations.
Associates During the year the carrying values of the associates were fully written off to nil 2016: 1.7m owing to share of losses and other charges recognised in the Consolidated income statement of 3.4m 2016: 0.4m credit.
The Group does not recognise further losses as it currently hasno future obligations to fund future losses or to make payments onbehalf of the other entity.
Ventaleon GmbH Following expenditure associated with Phase Ib and Phase II clinical trials, the Groups share of Ventaleons losses for the year to 31December 2017 was 1.5m 2016: 0.4m credit, inclusive of 0.1m foreign exchange gain.
The Group impaired the remaining value of 0.3m.
Tianjin Kinnovata Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd During the year, the Group received confirmation that the Chinese State authorities had approved the valuation of assets contributed by Vectura to this associate in return for a 37.84% share in Tianjin Kinnovata Pharmaceutical Company Limited Kinnovata.
Theinvestment is held through Innovata HK Limited.
Refer to parent company financial statements note 6 Subsidiary, associate and dormant undertakings for details of the classes of shares held through the sub-structure.
Kinnovata will develop, manufacture and commercialise the Clickhaler and Duohaler respiratory products for the Chinese market.
Vectura contributed the intellectual property associated with Clickhaler and Duohaler and will be entitled to a 5% royalty on future net sales.
During the year contributions of 1.6m, comprising 0.6m for new equipment and a 1.0m waiver ofa loan outstanding, were made.
These transactions are considered to be at arms-length.
The Group is not committed to making any further contributions and Vecturas share could be diluted if it does not participate in future capital raises.
No value of future benefit is attributed to the investment and no gain is recognised as a result of Vecturas contribution.
Net finance expense income 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Bank interest income 0.2 0.2 Bank interest expense 0.2 0.3 RCF commitment fees 0.2 0.1 Other financing items 1.0 Net finance expense before foreign exchange 1.2 0.2 Foreign exchange losses gains 1.4 4.2 Net finance expense income 2.6 4.0 The Group does not have any significant borrowings.
Bank interest expense is 0.2m 2016: 0.3m comprising of interest payable on Swiss property mortgages, and bank interest income of 0.2m 2016: 0.2m has been earned from cash on deposit.
Foreign exchange relates to foreign currency cash on deposit in Switzerland and the UK, and the revaluation of royalty and milestone receivables in foreign currency in Switzerland and the UK.
132 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.
Taxation 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Current taxation on profitable subsidiaries 5.9 4.4 Adjustments to prior periods recognised 0.4 1.4 Total current taxation charge 5.5 3.0 Deferred taxation note 25 22.0 11.0 Net taxation credit 16.5 8.0 Deferred taxation charges of 1.4m 2016: 0.9m were also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Current taxation arises from trading profits generated in Switzerland and the US.
Deferred tax relates predominantly to credits arising onthe unwinding of tax liabilities on the intangible assets acquired as a result of the acquisition of Activaeroand the Skyepharma merger.
The Groups effective tax rate ETR before OCI is a 16.15% credit.
This equates to the applicable UK tax rate of 19.25%, adjusted foranumber of factors discussed below.
The implementation of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Developments guidelines on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS is not expected to impact the Groups tax position.
UK taxation The UK sub-group is loss making and benefits from the R&D expenditure credit RDEC.
The RDEC is subject to UK corporation tax and therefore is included within the Consolidated income statement and presented as other income.
Refer to note 7 Other income.
In addition, UK companies are able to participate in the UK Patent Box regime, the benefit of which is expected to increase as new products are approved.
The UK corporation tax rate has reduced to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017, and will reduce to 17% from 1 April 2020, which has been substantively enacted.
The impact on the Group accounts is expected to be immaterial.
US taxation Taxable income arises in respect of the percentage of net sales received from EXPAREL.
Vectura expects its future US after-tax earnings tobe positively impacted by the recently enacted changes to US corporate taxes, largely due to the reduction of the US federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective 1 January 2018 which will be applied to the final contingent $32m milestone.
The ultimate impact of the change in the US corporate tax rate is under review.
The lowering of the US corporate income tax rate to 21% resulted in areduction in the value of Vecturas US deferred tax liabilities.
A credit to the Consolidated income statement of 1.6m was recognised asaresult.
The Group does not recognise any deferred tax assets in respect of the US, and therefore no adjustment to the carrying value for the rate change was required.
Swiss taxation Vectura continues to monitor the impact of Swiss corporate tax reform.
On 6 September 2017, the Swiss Federal Council indicated that tax proposal 17 TP17 shall be dispatched to the Parliament in spring 2018.
The Group monitors the situation closely and, while the overall tax burden is unlikely to change materially, there are a number of complex provisions in the legislation and a number of areas yet to be finalised and hence, once enacted, will likely cause an adjustment to the amounts recognised in these consolidated financial statements.
Effective tax rate ETR In Switzerland and the US, the Group is profitable and subject to taxation at the local rates Swiss ETR 8.5% charge, and the US corporate rate applied is 34% ETR 2017: 42.9% charge.
The uncertain tax position disclosed has increased by 4.1m in the year which includes a prior period adjustment following a change in basis as advised by the Groups tax advisors.
These charges, along with a significant credit ETR: 17.6% credit in respect of deferred tax liabilities relating to intangible assets acquired on the Skyepharma and Activaero acquisitions refer to note 25 Deferred tax liabilities, together drive the Groups ETR of 16.15% credit.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 133 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 13.
Taxation continued Effective tax rate ETR continued 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Loss before tax 102.2 40.1 Loss before tax multiplied by standard rate of UK corporation tax of 19.25% 31 December 2016: 20% 19.7 8.0 Effects of: UK Patent Box benefit 0.1 1.2 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.5 1.2 Unrecognised deferred tax 5.4 1.2 Prior year deferred tax 0.5 0.6 Research and development tax credits 1.4 Differences arising from prior period computations 0.4 0.2 Differences in effective overseas tax rates 2.1 0.2 Impact of deferred tax rate change 1.6 Total tax credit for the period 16.5 8.0 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes in the previous period relate to merger transaction costs.
Unrecognised deferred tax mainly relates to losses incurred for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised as future recovery, or timing of recovery, cannot be supported.
The ETR is expected to remain in the low-teens credit percentage rate in the short to medium term as a result of reduced loss relief available to offset against taxable profits, as well as the expected increase in the Swiss tax rate following the proposed reform.
The significant credit in respect of deferred tax liabilities on intangibles acquired is expected to continue in the short to medium term and this will continue to drive a credit ETR.
Loss per share 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 p p Basic 12.6 5.3 Diluted 12.6 5.3 Options granted under employee share plans are anti-dilutive for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The following table provides details of the dilutive impact as if the shares had been considered dilutive.
The calculation is based on the following data: 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Loss after taxation m 85.7 32.1 Weighted average number of shares m 678.9 608.9 Effect of dilutive potential shares m 6.2 5.3 Diluted weighted average number of shares m 685.1 614.2 In accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share the future impact of share buyback programmes are not relevant to loss per share as these are calculated on the basis of shares in issue at the reporting date.
134 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Goodwill 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m At beginning of the period 162.8 57.4 Skyepharma merger note 27 100.8 Foreign exchange 1.4 4.6 At end of the period 161.4 162.8 Allocation to cash-generating units CGUs UK and Germany 100.1 99.8 Switzerland 61.3 63.0 At end of the period 161.4 162.8 The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units are assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model.
Fair value less costs of disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
The discount rate used is based on the Group weighted average cost of capital WACC of 9% 2016: 9% as assessed by external experts.
Management considers this to be its best approximation of a market participant rate as required by IAS 36.
The discount rate is adjusted for specific country or currency risks but at present, as both cash-generating units have global large pharmaceutical partners, operations and or customers in each others territory, share access to short-term funding through the revolving credit facility RCF, it is considered that the same discount rate should be applied to each CGU.
There is currency risk associated with Switzerland, there is risk in the UK associated with Brexit and in the medium term both countries are expected to be closely affiliated with, but outside of, the European Union.
Cash flows are based on the most recent budget approved by the Board covering 2018 and 2019 and the Ten-Year Plan to 2027.
Detailsrelating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the cash-generating units are as follows: Valuation basis Fair value less cost of disposal Key assumptions Time to develop and launch pipeline products Net sales forecasts and related royalty inflows Milestones for pipeline products Profit margins for product supply Terminal growth rate Discount rate Taxation rate Determination of assumptions Net sales forecasts are determined from partner forecasts and external market data.
Milestone amounts and royalty rates reflect past experience and forecast sales potential determined from external market data Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on managements estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each region.
Specific projected cash flow period Ten years reflecting a longer term planning cycle Terminal growth rate nil Discount rate 9% The available headroom for the UK and Germany CGU has reduced versus 31 December 2016 following the delay in approval for VR315 US.
In addition, headroom for the Swiss CGU is lower as a result of stopping the development of VR2076.
The Group conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGUs carrying value.
The Group considered 12% to be a reasonably possible downside sensitivity.
While this reduces headroom, it does not alter managements assessment of future impairment risk, which is not considered significant.
The UK and German CGU valuation indicates sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change in a key assumption is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
The forecasts would need to reduce in excess of 70% primarily because this CGU comprises internally generated intangibles which are included in the valuation, but not the carrying value of the assets comprising the CGU.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 135 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 15.
Goodwill continued The Swiss CGU also shows significant headroom.
It has been calculated that a 33% reduction in the forecast or a 10% reduction in the forecast using a 12% discount rate would likely cause goodwill impairment next year, but, as this assessment excludes the impact of any new business or upside in existing business, the risk of this happening is considered remote.
Impairment of this CGU has been removed as a critical accounting estimate this year principally because the intangible assets are being amortised and each year the risk of impairment decreases.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets requires the use of pre-tax cash flows and pre-tax discount rates.
However, discounting post-tax cash flows at a post-tax discount rate should give materially the same result when there are neither temporary differences nor available tax losses at the measurement date.
The intangible assets recognised on the Skyepharma merger principally comprise of flutiform, EXPAREL, GSKs Ellipta products, other marketed products and VR2076 now fully impaired.
These intangible assets are being amortised over a period of between two and seven years with reference to average applicable patent lives in the Groups main territories.
Inhaled in-market assets include a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and marketing rights, which are in use, and the Group receives royalties or product supply revenue from these.
Non-inhaled in-market assets include a large number of near end-of-life acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and marketing rights, which are in use, and from which the Group continues to receive royalties.
These assets are amortised in line with the consumption of economic benefits.
In December 2017 Mundipharma informed the Group of its decision to stop the development of the pMDI triple therapy for asthma and COPD VR2076, in an early formulation phase.
As an acquired programme from the Skyepharma merger, VR2076 had a book value of 8.7m, which accordingly has been fully impaired.
136 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16.
Intangible assets continued For the purposes of impairment testing a value in-use approach is applied.
Details relating to the value in use calculations used for the impairment testing are as follows: Transaction Skyepharma merger 10 June 2016 Activaero acquisition 13 March 2014 Intangible type Inhaled in-market assets Non-inhaled in-market assets Smart nebuliser technology Specific asset subject flutiform EXPAREL VR475 FAVOLIR VR647 SCIPE to impairment Key assumptions Product supply Timing of $320m sales Net sales forecasts and royalty rates thereon volume forecast milestone from achieving Probability of success annual net sales of $500m Margin depending on pricing assumptions, raw material costs and cost of manufacture Discount rate Determination of Internal forecasts with Internal forecasts Internal forecasts utilising external market data key assumptions input from partners and supported by analyst Internal experience of appropriate commercial terms external market data expectations of with potential partners pricing trends, EXPAREL performance competition etc Probability of reaching market Margins reflect past Discount rate based on Group WACC experience, adjusted for expected changes in pricing, raw material costs and cost of manufacture Discount rate based on Group WACC, adjusted for 1% on-market product discount Discount rate 8% 8% 9% The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis based on reasonably possible downsides on the value-in-use calculations used for impairment testing.
For the flutiform intangible, three downside scenarios were performed being 1 a 10% reduction in revenues due to volume changes 2 a 5% reduction in the percentage margin from customer supply or raw material price changes and 3 an increase in the discount rate from 8% to 9%.
The first two sensitivity scenarios result in impairment while the third sensitivity results in a break-even position.
The risk of future impairment from these downside scenarios is mitigated by future amortisation of the flutiform intangible.
For VR475 FAVOLIR and VR647 SCIPE, a reduction in probability of reaching market from 74% to 60% would not trigger any impairment.
A20% reduction in net sales forecasts would also not cause impairment of either asset.
A 5% reduction in the forecast percentage royalty from partnering VR475 FAVOLIR and a 20% reduction in the value of forecast milestones from partnering VR647 SCIPE would not trigger impairment.
For the EXPAREL intangible, a two year delay in the forecast receipt of the $32.0m milestone would not result in impairment.
The remaining amortisation periods of the Groups intangible assets as at 31 December 2017 are: Remaining Carrying amortisation value period m Years Intangibles recognised from the Skyepharma merger Inhaled in-market assets 235.0 1 to 6.5 Non-inhaled in-market assets 33.4 1 to 3 Intangibles recognised from the Activaero acquisition Smart nebuliser technology 66.6 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 137 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 17.
The Group has invested 11.7m in capital expenditure 2016: 3.1m mainly in manufacturing equipment to support the production of flutiform, the development of oral tablet production in Lyon and laboratory equipment.
In January 2017, the Groups investment in expanding the capacity of flutiform at the Sanofi manufacturing facility in Holmes Chapel, previously classified as an asset under construction, became fully operational and accordingly was reclassified to supply chain equipment.
Transfers to other non-current assets relate to manufacturing equipment, located at a supplier site that will no longer be used by the Group.
Instead a future sale at a minimum of book value has been agreed with the development partner.
Refer to note 18 Other non-current assets.
Assets under construction at the reporting date relate to replacement tooling equipment and, also associated with the production of flutiform, a further 1.6m of spend on this equipment has been committed for next year.
Other non-current assets Other non-current assets comprise the following items: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Non-current financial assets held at amortised cost 6.0 0.2 Deferred tax assets on overseas tax basis differences 1.4 2.1 Investments in associates note 11 1.7 Total other non-current assets 7.4 4.0 138 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Other non-current assets continued Non-current financial assets principally include 5.8m 2016: nil of amounts receivable from a development partner for manufacturing equipment which Vectura has funded.
The development partner has agreed to reimburse Vectura for the original costs incurred, although the exact timing of recovery is dependent upon other contractual terms and contingent events, with the earliest possible repayment being on 1 May 2020.
Nevertheless, as the cost recovery has been contractually agreed, it is considered certain and therefore the item has been classified as a financial asset at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The asset was previously classified as an asset under construction athistorical cost of 6.4m, and will unwind to that previous value in 2020.
The financing charge on transfer has been recorded in the Consolidated income statement.
Deferred tax assets are recognised on differences between the tax base in the IFRS accounts for IAS 19 pension liabilities and certain contingent liabilities related to the profitable Swiss operations.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Raw materials 11.6 9.0 Work in progress 8.6 7.8 Finished goods 4.4 4.1 Less provision for impairment 1.2 2.5 Total inventories 23.4 18.4 Inventory purchases of 52.4m were included within cost of sales 2016: 37.4m.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Trade receivables 11.5 22.2 Accrued income 14.2 20.0 Less provision for impairment 1.1 1.1 Net trade receivables 24.6 41.1 Prepayments and other receivables 5.7 11.0 Research and development tax credits 3.8 4.5 Total trade and other receivables 34.1 56.6 The carrying values of trade receivables approximate their fair values because these balances are expected to be cash settled in the near future unless a provision is made.
In determining the expected credit losses for these assets, the Group has taken into account the historical default experience and the financial position of the counterparties, as well as the future prospects considering various external sources of actual and forecast economic information, as appropriate, in estimating the probability of default of each of these financial assets occurring within their respective loss assessment time horizon.
The Group applies the simplified approach to providing for expected credit losses prescribed by IFRS 9, which requires the use of the lifetime expected loss provision for all trade receivables.
The expected credit loss allowance provision at 31 December 2017 is determined below as follows and incorporates forward looking information: More than 30 More than 60 More than 90 Expiry profile Current days past due days past due days past due Total 2017 Expected loss rate nil nil 100% 100% Gross carrying amount 24.6 0.1 1.0 25.7 Loss allowance provision 0.1 1.0 1.1 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 139 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 21.
Cash and cash equivalents The Groups cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Sterling 44.5 27.8 Euros 24.5 24.2 US dollars 20.5 34.0 Swiss francs 14.2 6.5 Cash and cash equivalents 103.7 92.5 The Group invests its funds in short-term bank deposits.
The Group has access to these deposits at a maximum of 24 hours notice.
Inaddition to the cash and cash equivalents above, the Group has access to a 50m unsecured committed multi-currency revolving creditfacility RCF with Barclays Bank PLC and HSBC Bank plc.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Trade payables 23.7 22.4 Accruals 25.5 31.1 Other payables 3.1 4.4 Deferred income 4.0 1.7 Property mortgage 0.2 0.2 Trade and other current liabilities 56.5 59.8 Other payables 5.1 6.2 Deferred income 0.6 1.7 Property mortgage 3.9 4.3 Other non-current payables 9.6 12.2 Trade and other payables 66.1 72.0 Trade and other payables are unsecured unless otherwise indicated: due to the short-term nature of current payables, their carrying values approximates their fair value.
The Swiss property mortgage is secured on the building and has a fixed rate of interest of 2.6% per annum and an expiry date of 28 February 2019.
In addition to current trade and other payables of 56.5m 2016: 59.8m, corporation tax of 11.4m 2016: 8.6m is payable within twelvemonths.
Provisions Employee Property Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2017 2.3 1.9 1.2 5.4 Charged during the period 0.9 0.2 1.2 2.3 Utilised during the period 1.0 0.2 1.2 2.4 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2017 2.2 1.9 1.3 5.4 Current 0.8 0.2 1.2 2.2 Non-current 1.4 1.7 0.1 3.2 Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
Employee provisions include French statutory one-off lump sum payments due onthe retirement of employees at the Groups manufacturing facility in Lyon, France.
Property provisions have been established in respect of an onerous lease in Switzerland and the commitment to restore the Groups leased R&D facilities in Chippenham to their original 2012 condition in 2027.
Other provisions relate to the best estimate of certain contractual liabilities outstanding at the balance sheet date and in the comparative period related to exceptional redundancy costs which were fully utilised during the year.
The uncertain tax provision of 5.0m 2016: 0.9m is included in corporation tax payable and is therefore not reflected above.
140 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24.
Retirement benefit obligations Swiss defined benefit pension plan The amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the Swiss scheme are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Present value of funded obligations 17.7 21.3 Fair value of plan assets 14.1 15.4 Balance sheet liability 3.6 5.9 The Swiss sub-Group has affiliated itself with PKG Pensionskasse for the provision of its occupational pension for its employees and pension recipients.
The pension scheme provides benefits in the case of disability, death, old age and termination.
The risk benefits are defined in relation to the pensionable salary.
The retirement pension is calculated based on the projected savings capital with interest anda conversion rate.
The highest corporate body of the foundation is the Board of Trustees.
It handles the general management of the pension scheme, ensures compliance with the statutory requirements, defines the strategic objectives and policies of the pension scheme and identifies theresources for their implementation.
It determines the objectives and principles of the asset management and the implementation andmonitoring of the investment process.
The Board of Trustees of the PKG pension fund announced in December 2017 that: active policyholders retirement assets will earn 2.25% interest as of 31 December 2017: and further reduction in the relevant pension conversion into an annuity rates to 5.4% 2016: 6.0%.
Vectura, as an employer, matches employees contributions to the scheme on a monthly basis.
The amount of contributions to be paid by the employer and employee are determined by the Board of Trustees or the pension fund commission such that on retirement participants can chose to receive a cash lump sum or convert their savings capital into an annuity to be paid monthly over the course of their retirement.
The law Swiss Federal Law on Occupational Retirement, Survivors and Disability Pension Plans and its associated ordinances provides for minimum pension benefits and also a minimum amount for the savings contributions.
The amount of the contributions to be paid by the employer and the employee is determined by the highest corporate body and or the pension fund commission.
These can exceed the statutory minimum.
The employer contribution must be at least as high as the employee contributions.
The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Opening present value of the defined benefit obligation 21.3 Recognised upon Skyepharma merger on 10 June 2016 19.9 Current service cost 0.9 0.6 Gain on plan modification 1.0 Exceptional gain on curtailment note 10 0.2 1.1 Recognised in the income statement 0.3 1.1 Benefits paid and withdrawals 2.1 0.3 Employee contributions 0.5 0.3 Balance sheet cash movements 1.6 0.6 Foreign exchange translation 0.8 2.3 Actuarial gains 0.9 1.0 Recognised through OCI 1.7 1.3 Present value of the defined benefit obligation 17.7 21.3 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 141 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 24.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Swiss defined benefit pension plan continued The movement in the fair value of the plan assets since the merger is as follows: 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Fair value of the plan assets the beginning of the period 15.4 Recognised upon Skyepharma merger on 10 June 2016 12.8 Foreign exchange 0.6 1.3 Benefits paid and withdrawals 2.1 0.3 Actuarial gains recognised on plan assets through OCI 0.2 0.3 Employer contributions 0.7 0.4 Employee contributions 0.5 0.3 Fair value of the plan assets the end of the period 14.1 15.4 Plan assets comprise: 2017 2017 2016 2016 m % m % Equity 4.4 31.2 4.8 31.2 Bonds 0.6 4.3 6.9 44.8 Property 5.8 41.1 2.9 18.8 Cash 2.5 17.7 0.3 1.9 Other 0.8 5.7 0.5 3.3 Total plan assets 14.1 100.0 15.4 100.0 Other includes higher risk investments such as commodities or emerging market investments.
Despite the IFRS IAS 19 requirement to recognise these assets, they are not controlled by the Group but by the Swiss pension fund.
The pension fund manages these in accordance with Swiss pension regulations to generate a higher return on the fund but does not provide any further details as to the composition of the assets or, for example, the quoted prices of equity held in the fund as such Vectura is unable to disclose quoted equity prices as required by IAS 19.142.
The latest asset coverage ratio of 107.4% published by the fund, to which the assets prices relate, is not relevant to Vectura as the Groups share of assets in the fund is capped at the level of participant savings contribution.
Therefore, the Group will not share in any upside on the significantly larger quasi-governmental asset pool.
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the period ending 31December 2018 are 0.8m 2017: 0.6m.
The cumulative actuarial gain recognised in other comprehensive income since the merger is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Actuarial gain recognised in OCI 1.1 1.3 Cumulative actuarial gains recognised within retained losses 2.4 1.3 The principal actuarial assumptions made by the actuaries were: Salary growth 1.00% 1.00% Discount rate 0.65% 0.60% Male life expectancy from retirement age years 22.5 22.4 Female life expectancy from retirement age years 25.5 25.4 The average service period to retirement for scheme participants is approximately nine and a half years.
142 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Swiss defined benefit pension plan continued The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: Monetary Monetary effect of effect of increase in decrease in Change in assumption assumption assumption m m Discount rate - 1% 2.3 1.4 Salary growth - 2% 0.8 0.8 Life expectancy - 2 years 3.6 3.0 The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
The sole exception is the variation of the discount rate with simultaneous variation of the interest rate for projection of savings capital.
Defined contribution plans UK and Germany In addition the Group operates various defined contribution plans for its employees in the UK and Germany.
The Groups contributions tothese plans are charged to the Consolidated income statement in the year to which they relate, and the assets are held in separate trustee-administered funds.
The charge to the Consolidated income statement in relation to defined contribution plans is 2.0m as disclosed in note 6 Employees.
Deferred tax liabilities The principal deferred tax liabilities relate to differences between the tax and accounting base of intangible assets and buildings uplifted asa consequence of fair value accounting requirements.
Deferred tax liabilities are as follows: Foreign Intangible exchange assets gains Other Total m m m m At 1 April 2016 20.8 0.4 20.4 Recognised on acquisition of Skyepharma merger 55.1 3.9 59.0 Credited charged to income statement 13.3 2.3 11.0 Charged to OCI 0.7 0.7 Foreign exchange 7.2 0.5 7.7 At 31 December 2016 69.8 5.1 1.9 76.8 Credited to income statement 22.0 22.0 Charged to OCI 1.2 1.2 Foreign exchange 2.2 0.3 2.5 At 31 December 2017 45.6 6.0 1.9 53.5 Deferred tax liabilities associated with the Skyepharma merger and Activaero intangible assets unwind to offset the tax distortion that would otherwise occur as the assets are amortised.
Deferred tax liabilities on Swiss and US unrealised foreign exchange gains arise onpermanent funding loans because foreign exchange gains are deferred on the local balance sheet in accordance with Swiss and US laws.
A deferred tax asset on German tax losses of 5.3m 2016: 4.3m has been offset against the deferred tax liability on Activaero intangible assets.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets on tax losses amounting to 226.2m 2016: 187.9m.
The majority of the losses are unlikely to offset taxable profits as they mostly relate to non-trading losses in Investment holding companies.
There are no current plans to recover these losses in the foreseeable future.
Following the recently-enacted US tax changes and the lowering of the US corporate income tax rate to 21%, revaluation of Vecturas US deferred tax liabilities has occurred.
The impact in the current year is a one-off non-cash credit to the Consolidated income statement of 1.6m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 143 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 26.
Financial instruments In the current year, the Group has applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as revised in July 2014.
IFRS 9 introduces three new requirements for 1 the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, 2 the impairment of financial assets and 3 general hedge accounting.
Vectura is not a financial institution and does not have any complex financial instruments.
Vectura does not apply hedge accounting and the Groups customers are considered creditworthy and pay consistently within agreed payments terms.
As such, other than on disclosures, IFRS 9 is not assessed as having a significant impact on the Group.
Details of these new requirements as well as their impact are described as follows.
Area Impact of IFRS 9 adoption Classification and Reclassification of financial assets into the IFRS 9 categories has had no overall impact on their respective measurement measurement bases.
Impairment of New requirements to recognise expected credit losses on day one are not expected to materially impact the Group, financial assets whose customer base typically has favourable credit history and significant cash resources.
One bad debt was fully provided for as soon as loss was expected in the prior period and hence no restatement of the comparative is required.
In future, any impairment on debtors will need separate disclosure on an income statement line item, with debtors ageing analysis to be provided in the disclosure note.
Hedge accounting Vectura currently does not apply hedge accounting at present, and has not done so in previous periods.
On 1 January 2017, the Group has assessed which business models apply to the financial assets held by the Group on 1 April 2016, thedate of initial application of IFRS 9, and has classified its financial instruments into the appropriate IFRS 9 categories.
The initial application of IFRS 9 has not had any impact on the Groups financial assets as regards their classification and measurement: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents held at amortised cost 103.7 92.5 Trade receivables and accrued income held at amortised cost 24.6 41.1 Financial assets at amortised cost 6.0 0.2 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 53.3 58.0 81.0 75.8 The following items are not financial instruments as defined by IFRS 9 a prepayments made advances received right to receive future good or service, not cash or a financial asset b tax receivables and payables and similar items statutory rights or obligations, not contractual, or c deferred revenue and warranty obligations obligation to deliver goods or services, not cash or financial assets.
Impairment of financial assets In relation to the impairment of financial assets, IFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss model as opposed to an incurred credit loss model under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The expected credit loss model requires the Group to account for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit losses at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition of the financial assets.
In other words, it is no longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognised.
IFRS 9 allows a simplified approach for measuring the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses for trade receivables and contract assets.
The Group has three types of financial assets subject to the expected credit loss model: trade receivables for sales of inventory: trade receivables for R&D services: and accrued royalty and milestone income.
The Group was required to revise its impairment methodology under IFRS 9 for each of these classes of assets.
There was no impact of the change in impairment methodology on the carrying values disclosed.
Provisions against impaired assets are disclosed in note 20 Trade and other receivables.
144 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.
Financial instruments continued Impairment of financial assets continued a.
Credit risk The impairment provisions for financial assets disclosed in note 18 Other non-current assets are based on assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rates.
The Group uses judgement in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the Groups past history and existing market conditions, as well as forward-looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
Capital management The Group manages its capital to ensure that all entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists of equity as disclosed in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, retained earnings, cash and cash equivalents note 21 Cash and cash equivalents, an RCF note 21 Cash and cash equivalents and a Swiss property mortgage note 22 Trade and other payables.
The Group seeks to manage its capital through an appropriate mix ofthese items.
At 31 December 2017, and to the date that these financial statements were issued, no funds were drawn against the RCF.
c. Financial risk management The primary risks that the Group is exposed to through its use of financial instruments are liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
Board authorisation is required for all significant agreements that may affect the Group risk structure.
It is, and has been throughout the year, the Groups policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments is undertaken.
d. Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and by continually monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The Groups policy is to maintain continuity of funding through available cash and cash equivalents, an RCF and through the issue of shares where appropriate.
e. Currency risk management The Groups presentation currency is sterling.
The Group is subject to exposure on the translation of the assets of foreign subsidiaries whose functional currencies differ from that of the Group.
The Groups primary balance sheet translation exposures are to the Swiss franc, euro and US dollar.
The Group aims to minimise balance sheet translation exposures, where it is practical to do so, by funding subsidiaries with long-term loans, on which exchange differences are taken to reserves.
The Group faces currency exposures arising from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency.
These exposures are not hedged.
Exposures also arise from foreign currency-denominated trading transactions undertaken by subsidiaries.
The Groups policy is to offset such currency exposure by matching foreign currency revenues with expenditure in the same foreign currency.
Where there are no imminent foreign currency-denominated transactions, the surplus foreign currency cash balances are exchanged for the functional currency of the subsidiary.
Where it has not been possible to use natural hedges, currency options and forward currency contracts may be used.
No options or forward contracts have been entered into in the period 2016: none.
A 10% strengthening of the euro, sterling, the US dollar and Swiss franc functional currencies within the Group against non-functional currencies of its subsidiaries would result in the loss before taxation being 7.0m lower and items recognised directly in other comprehensive income being 14.6m higher.
A 10% weakening would have an equal but opposite effect on loss before taxation and other comprehensive income.
The Group considers a 10% strengthening or weakening of the functional currency against the non-functional currency of its subsidiaries as a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
Prior period business combination Skyepharma merger On 10 June 2016, an all-share merger the merger between Vectura and Skyepharma was completed by way of a scheme of arrangement of Skyepharma.
Immediately following the transaction, on a fully diluted basis, the previous shareholders of Vectura owned 61.3% of the enlarged Group, with the previous shareholders of Skyepharma owning 38.7%.
These percentages are broadly proportional to the revised Board structure.
Under the terms of the merger, Skyepharma shareholders received 2.7977 Vectura shares in exchange for each Skyepharma share held, with the option to take a partial cash alternative for a portion of their shareholding, which in aggregate was capped at 70.0m.
The final uptake of this partial cash alternative was 52.1m.
As Skyepharma had 27.1m of net cash on the acquisition date balance sheet, the net cash outflow before transaction costs was 25.0m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 145 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 27.
Prior period business combination Skyepharma merger continued The fair values of Skyepharma assets and liabilities acquired on 10 June 2016 were as follows: Fair value Fair value Book value adjustments acquired Note m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets A 6.5 373.0 379.5 Property, plant and equipment B 28.3 11.2 39.5 Deferred taxation C 2.0 0.7 2.7 Other financial assets 0.4 0.4 37.2 384.5 421.7 Current assets Inventories D 13.2 3.5 16.7 Trade and other receivables 22.3 22.3 Cash and cash equivalents 27.1 27.1 Other financial assets 0.1 0.1 62.7 3.4 66.1 Total assets acquired 99.9 387.9 487.8 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables E 25.5 3.8 29.3 Corporate taxation payables 5.9 5.9 Borrowings 0.2 0.2 Deferred income 0.2 0.2 Provisions 2.2 2.2 34.0 3.8 37.8 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 4.1 4.1 Retirement benefit obligations 8.3 8.3 Provisions and other payables E 1.1 2.8 3.9 Deferred taxation C 3.9 55.1 59.0 17.4 57.9 75.3 Total liabilities 51.4 61.7 113.1 Net assets acquired 48.5 326.2 374.7 A: Intangible assets: Skyepharma previously did not generally recognise internally generated intangible assets.
IFRS 3 requires purchased intangible assets to be recognised at fair value.
The intangible assets acquired by Vectura were valued by independent external experts on the basis of the net present value of income streams less costs associated with those streams.
B: Property, plant and equipment: fair value adjustments on land, buildings and equipment in Switzerland and France were recognised based upon property valuations obtained from independent external experts.
C: Deferred taxation: deferred tax liabilities were recognised in relation to the fair value uplift on net assets such that the notional tax consequence of amortisation can be matched to the period in which the amortisation occurs.
D: Inventories: inventories were uplifted to their fair value and have subsequently been sold through.
E: Trade and other payables and provisions: this relates to the recognition of contingent liabilities required by IFRS 3.
On acquisition, Skyepharma was committed to make certain payments to a development partner contingent upon future receipt of sales milestones and royalties received, with the payments deducted from these amounts receivable from the partner.
Accordingly, a liability of 6.6m was recognised and is expected to unwind by the end of 2020.
There was no difference between the fair value and the carrying value of trade and other receivables at the merger date.
146 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
Ordinary share capital Number Allotted, called up and fully paid m of shares Ordinary shares of 0.025p, each at 1 January 2017 0.2 677,969,321 Issued to satisfy Vectura employee share plans 1,961,880 Share buyback programme cancellations 1,422,503 Ordinary shares of 0.025p, each at 31 December 2017 0.2 678,508,698 During the period, the Group allotted 1,961,880 2016: 1,365,633 ordinary shares of 0.025p each related to employee share option awards.
Refer to note 29 Share-based payments.
On 14 November 2017, the Group announced that the Board has approved a share buyback to return up to 15m of capital to shareholders.
The Board believes that, in addition to the implementation of the current investment strategy, the buyback reflects strong financial management discipline and is an efficient allocation of capital.
At 31 December 2017, 1,422,503 shares had been repurchased at a weighted average price of 95p per share.
A total of 1.34m has been returned to shareholders to date.
Directly attributable costs of 11,240 has been expensed to equity.
On 28 February 2018 the programme was completed.
Refer to note 33 Post balance sheet events.
Share-based payments The Group operates various share-based compensation plans and further information is provided in the Remuneration report.
Share-based payments are solely made for the purposes of employee share compensation and as applicable are all settled for equity in Vectura Group plc.
9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Equity settled LTIP and RSA plans 2.1 1.8 Exceptional share-based payments 1.8 0.5 Total share-based payments 3.9 2.3 The employee share award plans are designed to support a strong culture of long-term shareholder value creation.
Details of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Groups main plan, are set out below.
The Group also operates a Share Incentive Plan SIP and a Save-As-You-Earn SAYE Plan, albeit the accounting charges are not considered material and hence the disclosures of these plans are made within the Remuneration report.
Equity-settled Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP including restricted stock awards RSA Under the approved Groups remuneration policy equity awards are a key component of the overall remuneration package for senior management and executives.
During the year, Vectura concluded a review of the LTIP arrangements and following approval at the 2017 AGM changes were introduced for Executive Directors and for all other employees as detailed below.
Transactions on the share plan for executives, senior management and key professionals during the year were as follows: Year ended 9 months ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Number of Number of awards awards Beginning of the period 9,175,233 9,717,832 Granted 3,770,532 1,842,847 Exercised 1,495,589 1,065,633 Forfeited 2,709,714 1,319,813 End of the period 8,740,462 9,175,233 In 2016 the main Board Directors received LTIP grants worth 250% of salary subject to performance over three and five-year periods.
Theperformance condition was subject to two relative TSR metrics, against the FTSE 250 excluding real estate and financial services companies and a bespoke sector peer group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 147 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 29.
Share-based payments continued Equity-settled Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP including restricted stock awards RSA continued In 2017, LTIPs granted to Executive Directors were reduced to 185% of salary 74% of 2016 levels, with the removal of the five-year performance element and changes to the vesting scale for TSR.
Half of this three-year performance continues to be measured subject to a relative TSR metric against the FTSE 250 excluding real estate and financial services.
The remaining half of the award will be subject to a three-year cumulative adjusted EBITDA target as set by the Remuneration Committee.
Employees at the Executive Leadership Team ELT level were granted LTIPs at 105% of salary.
35% of these awards were subject to thesame TSR and adjusted EBITDA metrics as the main Board participants, with the remaining 70% classified as restricted stock awards.
BelowELT, and where applicable, participants receive awards entirely of restricted stock options.
Restricted stock awards are subject to service conditions, i. e. the requirement for recipients of awards to remain in employment with Vectura over the three-year vesting period and subject to a personal performance underpin.
Any vested shares granted to the main Board member and Executive Leadership Team must be held for two years after vesting.
The treatment of vesting and non-vesting conditions attached to awards in the valuation process varies in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 2.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the calculation of the grant date fair value for the total shareholder return was as follows: Number of TSR awards granted 1,114,638 Service condition 3 years Holding condition 2 years Share price on grant date 117.6p Exercise nominal price 0.025p The TSR condition 50% of the 2017 award and all of the 2016 award is a market-based performance condition: this has been incorporated into the fair value calculation and no subsequent adjustments may be made.
For awards subject to a TSR condition, volatility is calculated over the period of time commensurate with the remainder of the performance period immediately prior to the date of grant being 28.12% 2016: 27.24%.
The risk-free interest rate obtainable from government securities i. e. gilts in the UK over a period commensurate with the expected term was 0.09% 2016: 0.13% and there was no dividend yield expected 2016: nil.
The adjusted EBITDA condition 50% of the 2017 awards for main Board and ELT is a non-market condition: the fair value calculation is adjusted at each period end for the likelihood of the number of shares that will ultimately vest.
All awards require recipients to remain in employment with the Company over the vesting period.
For the LTIP and RSA awards that will be subject to a holding period, the Chaffe model an at-market put option variant of the Black-Scholes model has been used to determine a discount for the lack of marketability.
For the below ELT RSA awards, the probability of the non-market-based underpin condition being achieved does not need to be incorporated into the fair value at date of grant, but is evaluated periodically to true up the estimate for the number of awards expected to vest.
Exceptional share-based awards Share-based payments within exceptional items were 1.8m 2016: 0.5m.
Upon completion of the merger 1,490,982 exceptional nil-cost awards were granted to key members of management, excluding Executive Directors, considered critical to the integration process.
These awards vest in full provided that an 18-month or 36-month service condition from their date of grant on 22 September 2016 and personal performance targets are met.
There are no performance conditions associated with these awards.
The grant date fair value was 1.41 per share and the total share-based payment charge, assuming no lapses occur, will be expensed evenly to 21 March 2018 or 21 September 2019, depending on the applicable service conditions.
The increase compared to the previous period is owing to a full years charge in 2017 compared to a quarter of a years charge in 2016.
0.2m of exceptional charges were credited back in the period for employees with retention awards that left employment of the Group and hence did not satisfy the service condition.
Share trusts The Group operates two share trusts.
The Groups own-share reserve represents the weighted average cost of shares in the Estera Employee Benefit Trust and the Vectura Employee Benefit Trust, which are held for the purposes of fulfilling obligations in respect of executive awards and employee share plans.
148 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30.
Cash flow information Restatement of comparative cash flow information The FRCs corporate reporting review of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts to 31 December 2016 highlighted that IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows paragraph 16A prevents items being classified as investing activities unless a corresponding asset is also capitalised.
As a result of this review the comparative Consolidated cash flow statement has been restated.
Cash outflows related to exceptional merger costs of 11.9m have now been presented within cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from financing activities, asopposed to cash flows from investing activities in the Consolidated cash flow statement.
Net cash inflow from operating activities in 2016 has decreased by 9.4m from 28.2m to 18.8m and net cash outflow from investing activities has decreased by 11.9m from a cash outflow of 38.1m to cash outflow of 26.2m.
Net cash outflow from financing activities has decreased by 2.5m from an outflow of0.1m to an outflow of 2.6m.
Previously reported Restatement Restated 9 months ended 31 December 2016 m m m Cash flow statement line item Decrease increase in trade and other payables 7.1 3.3 3.8 Non-recurring transaction costs paid 6.1 6.1 Exceptional merger costs 11.9 11.9 Merger transaction costs 2.5 2.5 The FRCs enquiries regarding this matter are now complete.
There are no further amendments to the financial statements other than enhancements to the presentation of Alternative Performance Measures.
It must be noted that the FRCs review is limited to the published 2016 Annual Report and Accounts: it does not benefit from a detailed understanding of underlying transactions and provides no assurance that the Annual Report and Accounts are correct in all material respects.
Further details are provided within the Audit Committee report.
Analysis of movement in financial liabilities 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m At the beginning of the period 4.5 Skyepharma merger 4.3 Repayments 0.3 0.3 Interest expense 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange movements 0.2 0.4 At the end of the period 4.1 4.5 Financial liabilities entirely relate to Swiss property mortgages secured on the Swiss R&D facility.
Repayments include 0.2m 2016: 0.2m of capital repayments.
Commitments and contingent liabilities Operating leases The Group is committed to making rental payments under non-cancellable UK property leases at Chippenham, Cambridge Science Park andGrosvenor Gardens, London, as follows: 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Within one year 1.1 1.1 Between two and five years 2.9 3.5 Over five years 2.6 2.9 Total operating lease commitments 6.6 7.5 Share buyback and cancellation programme On 14 November 2017 Vectura Group plc announced that the Board has approved a share buyback and cancellation programme to return up to 15.0m of capital to shareholders.
A purchase for cancellation programme of the Companys ordinary shares of 0.025p each commenced to a maximum consideration of 15.0m, expiring on 11 May 2018.
Numis Securities Limited was required to buy back shares independently of, and uninfluenced by, the Group.
At 31 December 2017 1.4m had been returned to shareholders and, accordingly, the Group had a commitment in relation to the remaining 13.6m of cash committed to the programme.
The programme completed in February 2018, refer to note 33 Post balance sheet events.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 149 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For the year ended 31 December 2017 31.
Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Contingent liabilities The Group has multiple collaborative development agreements with its Partners, across separate development and licensing agreements.
Within some agreements, the Group has committed to make payments to the development partner contingent upon future events, such assales milestones and royalties received, or has committed to fund or partially fund costs within the associated development programme.
Historically, a number of these payments have not been claimed by some partners.
As it is not possible to reliably estimate the potential outflow, and the potential for the outflow is considered remote, no liability is held on the balance sheet for such items.
The Group has an uncertain tax provision.
Should any challenge from the relevant tax authority arise, it is possible that penalties between 040% of underpaid taxation could be levied.
Based on external professional advice, penalties in excess of 20% are considered remote, and penalties towards the lower end of the range are considered more likely, but not probable.
As a result, the Group considers a contingent liability of up to 1.0m 2016: nil in respect of penalties to be appropriate, but as the amount remains uncertain and payment is not considered probable, no provision is held on the balance sheet.
Related-party transactions Associates In order to finalise the valuation process of the Groups Chinese associate, costs of 1.6m have been incurred comprising 0.6m for the cost of new equipment and a 1.0m waiver of a loan previously made to the associate.
These contributions are considered arms length related-party transactions, necessary to finalise the valuation process.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, was 2.6m and is set out below: 9 months Year ended ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Short-term employee benefits 1.0 0.9 Annual incentive plan 0.7 0.8 Non-Executive Directors fees 0.4 0.3 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 0.4 Other 0.3 0.9 Total remuneration of key management personnel 2.6 3.5 Please refer to the Remuneration report for the remuneration of each Director.
At 31 December 2017 P-O Andersson owed the Group 3,600 2016: nil this outstanding amount was fully recovered in January 2018, noother amounts were outstanding between the Group and the Directors 2016: nil.
Post balance sheet events Subsequent to the balance sheet date, a further 13.6m of shares have been repurchased as part of the 15.0m share buyback and cancellation programme completed by the end of February 2018.
The weighted average price of shares purchased was 93p per share.
150 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
