136 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING to be held at the offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS on 10 May 2018 at 11.00 am.
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from an independent stockbroker, solicitor, accountant, or other professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your ordinary shares in John Laing Group plc, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
A form of proxy for the annual general meeting AGM is enclosed and should be completed and returned as soon as possible in accordance with the instructions printed on the form of proxy.
To be valid, it must reach the Companys registrar, Equiniti, no later than 48 hours before the time of the AGM.
Alternatively, you may register your vote online by visiting the registrars website at www.
co. uk or, if you already have a portfolio registered with Equiniti, by logging onto www.
In order to register your vote online you will need to enter the Voting I. D. Task I. D. and Shareholder Reference Number which are on the enclosed form of proxy.
If you are a member of CREST, the electronic settlement system for UK securities, you may register the appointment of a proxy by using the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
Further details are contained in the notes to the notice of AGM see pages 143 and 144 of this document and in the form of proxy.
Electronic and CREST proxy voting instructions should also be submitted no later than 11.00am on 8 May 2018.
Completion of a form of proxy or the appointment of a proxy electronically will not stop you from attending the AGM and voting in person should you so wish.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 137 CHAIRMANS LETTER Dear Shareholder, I am writing to you with details of the annual general meeting AGM of John Laing Group plc John Laing or the Company which we are holding at the ofces of Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS on 10 May 2018 at 11.00am.
We very much hope that as many shareholders as possible will be able to attend.
Voting on all the proposed resolutions at the AGM will be conducted on a poll rather than on a show of hands.
Voting on a poll is more transparent and equitable because it includes a vote in respect of every share held by each shareholder present and voting in person or by proxy, rather than a single vote for each shareholder or proxy who attends the AGM.
NOTICE OF AGM The formal notice of the AGM is set out on page 141 of this document.
Shareholders of the Company will be asked to consider and, if thought t, approve resolutions in respect of the following matters: ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS Consideration of the Companys accounts and the reports of the Directors of the Company the Directors and the auditor of the Company the external auditor : Approval of the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017: Re-election and election of Directors: Approval of the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2017: Reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor for the ensuing year: Authority to determine the remuneration of the auditor: Authority to allot shares: and Authority to make political donations.
SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS Waiver of pre-emption rights in certain circumstances: Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares: and Approval to reduce the notice period for a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting.
A brief description of these matters is set out below.
Report and accounts and final dividend resolutions 1 and 2 The first resolution at the AGM relates to the receipt and consideration of the Companys accounts and the reports of the Directors and the external auditor for the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
Separately, shareholders will be asked to approve the payment of a final dividend of 7.17 pence per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017, as recommended by the Directors.
If the recommended final dividend is approved, it is proposed that it will be paid on 18 May 2018 to shareholders on the Companys register of members at the close of business on 20 April 2018 the record date.
Re-election and election of Directors resolutions 3 to 9 Resolutions 3 to 9 propose the re-election of six out of the seven current Directors of the Company in accordance with the articles of association of the Company and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The re-election of these Directors will take effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
Having announced my retirement on 7 December 2017, I will not stand for re-election as a Director of the Company.
Accordingly, I will retire as Chairman of the Company from the Board with effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
Shareholders' approval is sought for the election of Will Samuel as a Director of the Company.
He was first appointed by the Board as a Director on 7 December 2017 and now stands for election by shareholders in accordance with the Code.
If so elected, he will succeed me as Chairman with effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 138 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CHAIRMANS LETTER CONTINUED Biographical details for each of the Directors offering themselves for re-election or election are set out on pages 46 to 47 of the Annual Report.
The Board believes this information is sufficient to enable shareholders to make an informed decision on the proposed re-election or election of these Directors.
Following the annual evaluation exercise conducted in 2017, the Board considers that the contribution, commitment and performance of each of the Directors proposed for re-election and election continues to be valuable and effective and that it is appropriate for them to continue to serve as Directors of the Company.
In accordance with the Code, the Board has reviewed the independence of its non-executive Directors and has determined that they remain fully independent of management and that there are no relationships or circumstances likely to affect their character or judgement.
Directors remuneration report resolution 10 The Company believes that the Directors remuneration report, which may be found on pages 58 to 73 of the Annual Report, demonstrates the link between our remuneration policy and practice, and the Companys strategy and performance.
The Directors remuneration policy, a summary of which may be found on pages 67 to 73 of the Annual Report, sets out the Companys forward-looking policy on directors remuneration and describes the components of the Executive and non-executive Directors remuneration.
The Board considers that appropriate executive remuneration plays a vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall objectives and, accordingly, and in compliance with the relevant legislation, shareholders will be invited to approve the Directors remuneration report.
The Directors remuneration report is included in the Annual Report and provides details of the remuneration paid to the Directors during the year ended 31 December 2017, including share awards.
Shareholders are invited to approve the Directors remuneration report under resolution 10.
This vote is advisory in nature in that payments made or promised to Directors will not have to be repaid, reduced or withheld in the event that the resolution is not passed.
This vote will be in respect of the content of the Directors remuneration report and not specic to any Directors level or terms of remuneration.
The Company is required to seek shareholder approval of the Directors remuneration policy every three years, except in the event that a change to the policy is proposed or the advisory vote on the Directors remuneration report is not passed at the preceding AGM.
The Directors remuneration policy was approved at the 2016 AGM and there have been no changes since it was approved.
It is expected that a resolution approving the Directors remuneration policy will next be put to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
External Auditor resolutions 11 and 12 Resolutions will be proposed to reappoint Deloitte LLP as external auditor until the conclusion of the AGM in 2019 and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Directors authority to allot shares resolution 13 Further to the provisions of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, shareholders will be asked to grant the Board the authority to allot shares, grant rights to subscribe for shares, or convert any security into shares in the Company the new authority.
The new authority would be valid until the close of the AGM in 2019 or, if earlier, the close of business on 10 August 2019.
If passed, the new authority would be limited to an aggregate nominal value of 16,309,339.20, or 163,093,392 ordinary shares, representing approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 27 March 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice save that, if the new authority were used in connection with a rights issue, it would be limited to an aggregate nominal value of 32,618,678.50 ordinary shares, or 326,186,785 ordinary shares, representing approximately two thirds of the Companys issued share capital as at 27 March 2018.
In each case the number of shares to which the new authority applies is in addition to those committed to employee share plans.
At the date this document was despatched to shareholders, the Directors had no intention to exercise this new authority, although they considered its grant to be appropriate in order to preserve maximum exibility for the future.
The Directors intend to seek the approval of shareholders to renew this authority annually.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 139 Political donations resolution 14 The Act restricts companies from making donations to political parties, other political organisations or independent election candidates and from incurring political expenditure, in each case without shareholders consent.
It is not proposed or intended to alter the Companys policy of not making such donations or incurring such expenditure.
However, the Act contains some potentially broad denitions and it may be that some of the activities of the Company and its subsidiaries fall within these denitions and, without the necessary authorisation, this could inhibit the Companys ability to communicate its views effectively to political audiences and to relevant interest groups.
Accordingly, the Company believes that the authority contained in this resolution is necessary to allow it and its subsidiaries to fund activities which it is in the interests of shareholders that the John Laing group of companies should support.
Such authority will enable the Company and its subsidiaries to be sure that they do not unintentionally commit a technical breach of the Act.
Any expenditure which may be incurred under authority of this resolution will be disclosed in next years Annual Report.
It is the Companys intention to seek renewal of this resolution on an annual basis.
Waiver of pre-emption rights resolutions 15 and 16 Under section 561 1 of the Act, if the Directors wish to allot ordinary shares, or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert securities into, ordinary shares, or sell treasury shares for cash other than pursuant to an employee share scheme they must in the first instance offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
There may be occasions, however, when the Directors need the exibility to finance business opportunities by the allotment of shares without a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders.
This cannot be done under the Act unless the shareholders have first waived their pre-emption rights, so two resolutions will be proposed to waive these statutory pre-emption provisions for a period ending at the close of the AGM in 2019 or, if earlier, at the close of business on 10 August 2019.
In line with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, the first resolution will empower the Board to allot equity securities for cash consideration either on a non-pre-emptive basis: i by way of a rights or other pre-emptive issue in order to allow the Directors to make appropriate exclusions and other arrangements to resolve legal or practical problems which might, for example, arise in relation to overseas shareholders: or ii by way of a non-pre-emptive issue, in the latter case limited to an aggregate nominal value of 2,446,400.80, or a total of 24,464,008 ordinary shares, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital as at 27 March 2018.
The second resolution will empower the Board to allot equity securities representing a further 24,464,008 ordinary shares or 5% of the Companys issued share capital to be used only for the purposes of nancing or renancing, if the power is to be used within six months after the original transaction a transaction which the Directors determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights in March 2015.
Both of these resolutions are conditional on resolution 13 being passed.
At the date this document was approved by the Board, the Directors had no intention to exercise these authorities, although they considered their grants to be appropriate in order to preserve maximum exibility for the future.
The Directors intend to seek the approval of shareholders to renew these authorities annually.
Authority to purchase own shares resolution 17 Shareholders will be asked to authorise the market purchase by John Laing of a proportion of its issued ordinary share capital, subject to the limits referred to below.
The Directors consider it prudent to be able to act at short notice if circumstances warrant.
In considering the purchase of ordinary shares, the Directors will follow the procedures laid down in the Act and will take into account cash resources, capital requirements and the effect of any purchase on gearing levels and on NAV and earnings per share.
They will only consider exercising the authority when satisfied that it would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole to do so, having first considered any other investment opportunities open to the Company.
Any purchase by the Company of its own shares pursuant to this authority will be paid for out of distributable profits.
Any shares which are repurchased will be dealt with in accordance with section 724 of the Act.
The Company is entitled to hold the shares as treasury shares, sell them for cash, cancel them or transfer them pursuant to an employee share plan.
The authority, which will expire at the close of the AGM in 2019 or, if earlier, at the close of business on 10 November 2019, will be limited to the purchase of 48,928,017 ordinary shares, representing approximately 10% of John Laings issued ordinary share capital as at 27 March 2018.
The maximum price excluding expenses to be paid per ordinary share on any occasion will be restricted to the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of an ordinary share of the Company derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased and ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System.
The minimum price will be 10p per ordinary share, which is the nominal value of the shares.
Shareholders should understand that the maximum number of shares and the price range are stated merely for the purposes of compliance with statutory requirements in seeking this authority and should not be taken as any indication of the terms upon which the Company intends to make such purchases.
At the date this document was approved by the Board, the Directors had no intention to exercise this authority.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 140 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CHAIRMANS LETTER CONTINUED Any purchases of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
Any shares purchased under this authority may either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Treasury shares may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy options issued to employees pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes.
The Companys issued share capital as at 27 March 2018 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document was 489,280,178 ordinary shares of 10p each.
The total number of awards over ordinary shares which were outstanding as at 27 March 2018 was approximately 5,031,360 before any adjustment for the recent rights issue which represents approximately 1.03% of the issued share capital of the Company at that date.
If the maximum number of 48,928,017 shares were to be purchased by the Company under resolution 17, the adjusted issued share capital would be 440,352,161 and the awards outstanding would represent approximately 1.14% of the adjusted issued share capital.
Notice of general meetings resolution 18 The Act sets the notice period required for general meetings of the Company at 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
This resolution seeks such approval.
It is intended that the shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings but only where the exibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Company undertakes to meet the requirements for electronic voting in the Act before calling a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a renewal of the approval will be proposed.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The resolutions referred to in this letter are included in the notice of AGM set out on page 141 of this document.
The AGM is to be held at the ofces of Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS at 11.00am on 10 May 2018.
If you are unable to attend the AGM, please complete and return the enclosed form of proxy in the prepaid envelope provided so as to reach the Companys registrar, Equiniti, not less than 48 hours before the time of the AGM.
If you are a member of CREST, you may register the appointment of a proxy by using the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
Further details are contained in the notes to the notice of AGM and in the form of proxy.
Completion of a form of proxy, or the appointment of a proxy electronically, will not stop you from attending the AGM and voting in person should you so wish.
If you are unable to attend the AGM but would like to ask a question, please e-mail carolyn.
RECOMMENDATION The Directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and are most likely to promote the success of the Company.
Your Board will be voting in favour of all the proposed resolutions and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
Yours sincerely, Phil Nolan CHAIRMAN Registered Ofce: 1 Kingsway London WC2B 6AN United Kingdom John Laing Group plc Registered in England and Wales No.
05975300 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 141 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting will be held at the ofces of Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS on 10 May 2018 at 11.00am.
You will be asked to consider and vote on the resolutions below.
Resolutions 15 to 18 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions and will be passed if at least three-quarters of the votes cast in person or by proxy are in favour.
All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and will be passed if a majority of the votes cast in person or by proxy are in favour.
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions 1.
To receive and consider the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the report of the Directors and external auditor thereon.
To declare a final dividend of 7.17 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2017 recommended by the Directors.
To re elect Olivier Brousse as Director of the Company with effect from the end of the AGM.
To re elect Patrick ODonnell Bourke as Director of the Company with effect from the end of the AGM.
To re elect David Rough as Director of the Company with effect from the end of the AGM.
To re elect Jeremy Beeton as Director of the Company with effect from the end of the AGM.
To re elect Toby Hiscock as Director of the Company with effect from the end of the AGM.
To re elect Anne Wade as Director of the Company with effect from the end of the AGM.
To elect Will Samuel as Director of the Company with effect from the end of the AGM.
To receive and approve the Directors Remuneration Report contained within the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017, in accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
To authorise the Directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
THAT, pursuant to section 551 of the Act, the Board be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company: i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 16,309,339.20: and ii comprising equity securities, as dened in section 560 of the Act, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 32,618,678.50 including within such limit any shares or rights issued or granted under i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: A to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and B to people who are holders of other equity securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the Board considers it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities: and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authorities to expire unless previously reviewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting at the close of the AGM in 2019 or, if earlier, at the close of business on 10 August 2019 provided that, in each case, the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would or might require shares in the Company to be allotted, or rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares to be granted, after the authority expires and the Board may allot shares in the Company and grant rights under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
THAT the Company, and any company which is or becomes a subsidiary of the Company, at any time up to the end of the AGM in 2019, be generally authorised, in aggregate, to: i make political donations to political parties and or independent election candidates not exceeding 50,000 in total: ii make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 100,000 in total: and iii incur political expenditure not exceeding 50,000 in total.
For the purposes of this authority the terms political donation, political parties, independent election candidates, political organisation and political expenditure have the meanings given by sections 363 to 365 of the Act.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 142 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as special resolutions: 15.
THAT, subject to resolution 13 being passed, the Board be generally empowered, pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the Act, to allot equity securities as defined in the Act for cash under the authority given by resolution 13 and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such power to be limited: i to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under resolution 13 ii, by way of a rights issue only : A to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and B to people who are holders of other equity securities, if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the Board considers it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities: and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and ii to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares otherwise than under paragraph i above up to a nominal amount of 2,446,400.80, being approximately 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2018, such power to expire at the end of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, at the close of business on 10 August 2019 but, in each case, prior to its expiry the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power expires and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
THAT, subject to resolution 13 being passed, the Board be generally empowered, pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the Act, and in addition to any authority granted under resolution 15, to allot equity securities as defined in the Act for cash under the authority given by resolution 13 and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, such power to be: i limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 2,446,400.80, being approximately 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2018: and ii used only for the purposes of nancing or renancing, if the power is to be used within six months after the original transaction a transaction which the Board of the Company determines to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this notice, such power to expire at the end of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, at the close of business on 10 August 2019 but, in each case, prior to its expiry the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power expires and the Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
THAT the Company is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 48,928,017: ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is 10p per share: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is, in respect of an ordinary share contracted to be purchased on any day, the higher of a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of an ordinary share of the Company derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the close of the AGM in 2019 or, if earlier, at the close of business on 10 November 2019 : and v during the relevant period the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract as if the authority had not expired.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 143 18.
THAT a general meeting of the Company, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Carolyn Cattermole COMPANY SECRETARY 27 March 2018 Registered Ofce: 1 Kingsway London WC2B 6AN United Kingdom John Laing Group plc Registered in England and Wales No.
The right to attend and vote at the AGM is determined by reference to the Companys register of members.
Only a member entered in the register of members at 6.00 p. m. on 8 May 2018 or, if this AGM is adjourned, in the register of members at 6.00p.
m. two business days before the time of any adjourned meeting is entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and a member may vote in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in the members name at that time.
Changes to the entries in the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the AGM.
Any shareholder or nominee shareholder may appoint one or more persons whether shareholders of the Company or not to act as his her proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him her provided that each such proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
The form of proxy for use at the AGM must be deposited, together with any power of attorney or authority under which it is signed, at Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the AGM or any adjournment thereof.
An appropriate form of proxy is enclosed.
Alternatively, you may register your vote online by visiting www.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies, or amend an instruction to a previously appointed proxy, through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM to be held at 11.00am on 10 May 2018 and any adjournment s thereof, by using the procedures described in the CREST manual available via www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an instruction to a previously appointed proxy, must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID: RA19 by no later than 11.00am on 8 May 2018.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 144 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 4.
Shareholders may change proxy instructions by submitting a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above.
Note that the cut-off time for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions: any amended proxy appointment received after the relevant cut-off time will be disregarded.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Shareholders may revoke a proxy instruction delivered pursuant to note 2, but to do so must inform the Company in writing by sending a signed hard copy notice clearly stating their intention to revoke the proxy appointment to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
In the case of a shareholder which is a company, the revocation notice must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the company or an attorney for the company.
Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the revocation notice is signed or a duly certified copy of such power or authority must be included with the revocation notice.
The revocation notice must be received by the Company no later than the cut-off time 48 hours before the time appointed for the AGM set out above.
If a shareholder attempts to revoke his or her proxy appointment but the revocation is received after the time specified, such shareholders original proxy appointment will remain valid unless the shareholder attends the AGM and votes in person.
The 2018 AGM will be held at the offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS on 10 May 2018 at 11.00am.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders completes a proxy appointment, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
For this purpose seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Companys register of members the first-named being the most senior.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise, on its behalf, all of its powers as a shareholder, provided that no more than one corporate representative exercises powers over the same share.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that paragraph can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
As at 27 March 2018 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 489,280,178 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 27 March 2018 are 489,280,178 votes.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish a statement on a website setting out any matter relating to: the audit of the Companys accounts including the external auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys external auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Any shareholder, proxy or corporate representative attending the AGM has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no such answer need be given if: to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the AGM or involve the disclosure of confidential information: the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the AGM that the question be answered.
The following documents will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any business day at the Companys registered office and will also be available during the AGM and for 15 minutes beforehand: copies of the Directors service contracts with, or letters of appointment by, the Company: and the articles of association of the Company.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
The results of the voting at the AGM will be announced through a Regulatory Information Service and will appear on the Companys website www.
html as soon as possible following the AGM.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL DIARY REGISTRARS 8 March 2018 Full year results presentation Equiniti 19 April 2018 Ex-dividend date for final dividend Aspect House 20 April 2018 Record date for final dividend Spencer Road 10 May 2018 Annual General Meeting Lancing 18 May 2018 Payment of final dividend West Sussex BN99 6DA August 2018 Announcement of half year results Please contact the Registrars at the address above to advise October 2018 Interim dividend expected to be paid of a change of address or for any enquiries relating to dividend payments, lost share certicates or other share registration REGISTERED OFFICE AND ADVISERS matters.
The Registrars provide on-line facilities at Secretary and Registered Ofce www.
Once you have registered you will be C Cattermole able to access information on your John Laing Group plc 1 Kingsway shareholding, update your personal details and amend your London WC2B 6AN dividend payment instructions on-line without having to call Registered No: 05975300 or write to the Registrars.
AUDITOR REGISTRARS QUERIES Deloitte LLP Information on how to manage your shareholdings can be 2 New Street Square found at https: help.
The pages at this web London EC4A 3BZ address provide answers to commonly asked questions regarding shareholder registration, links to downloadable SOLICITORS forms and guidance notes.
Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP 65 Fleet Street If your question is not answered by the information provided, London EC4Y 1HS you can send your enquiry via secure email from the pages at https: help.
You will be asked to complete PRINCIPAL GROUP BANKS a structured form and to provide your Shareholder Reference, Barclays Bank PLC name and address.
You will also need to provide your email 1 Churchill Place address if this is how you would like to receive your response.
London E14 5HP Alternatively you can telephone: 0371 384 2030.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time Monday to Friday, excluding HSBC Bank plc public holidays in England and Wales.
71 Queen Victoria Street London EC4V 4AY Calls from overseas: 44 121 415 7047.
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited 40 Bank Street COMPANY WEBSITE London E14 5EJ The Companys website at www.
com contains the latest information for shareholders, including press releases and an The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Limited updated financial diary.
Email alerts of the latest news, press Ropemaker Place releases and financial reports about John Laing Group plc 25 Ropemaker Street may be obtained by registering for the email news alert London EC2Y 9AN service on the website.
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation SHARE PRICE INFORMATION 99 Queen Victoria Street The latest price of the Companys ordinary shares London EC4V 4EH is available on www.
Alternatively click on Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank www.
John Laing's ticker symbol Broadwalk House is JLG.
John Laing is classied in the Speciality Finance Sector 5 Appold Street of Financial Services on The London Stock Exchange.
It is London EC2A 2DA recommended that you consult your financial adviser and verify information obtained from these services before making ABN AMRO Bank NV any investment decision.
Gustav Mahlerlaan 10 1082 PP Amsterdam DIVIDENDS The Netherlands Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly into a bank or building society account should contact the Registrars.
JOINT STOCKBROKERS Barclays Bank PLC SHARE DEALING SERVICES 5 The North Colonnade The Registrars offer a real-time telephone and internet London E14 4BB dealing service for the UK.
Further details including terms HSBC Bank plc and rates can be obtained by logging on to the website 8 Canada Square at www.
London E14 5HQ Lines are open from 8:00am to 4:30pm UK time for dealing, and until 6:00pm UK time for enquiries Monday Friday, INDEPENDENT VALUERS excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
KPMG LLP 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5GL Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk Printed by Pureprint Group Limited, a CarbonNeutral Printing Company.
Pureprint Group Limited is FSC certified and ISO 14001 certified.
JOHN LAING GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Further copies of this Annual Report & Accounts John Laing Group plc are available by visiting the Companys Registered Office: website or at the address below 1 Kingsway London WC2B 6AN www.
com United Kingdom Registered No.
