Alternative performance measure definitions Performance measure Definition Purpose Conversion of EBITDA to cash EBITDA divided by Operating cash flows before Intends to show the Groups efficiency exceptional and other items and taxation.
at converting EBITDA into cash.
EBITDA Operating profit excluding depreciation, EBITDA shows the Groups earning power amortisation, exceptional and other items, independent of capital structure and tax situation and profit or loss on disposal of assets.
with the purpose of simplifying comparisons with other companies in the same industry as it excludes non-cash accounting entries, such as depreciation.
EBITDA margin EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
Provides a comparable performance metric, expressed as a percentage of revenues.
Net debt Interest-bearing liabilities, excluding borrowing Measurement of net Group indebtedness.
costs, less cash and cash equivalents.
Net debt EBITDA Net debt at the end of the period divided by EBITDA.
Indicates the Groups ability to service its debt from cash earnings.
Clinical staff costs as Clinical staff costs and medical fees as a percentage Provides a comparable measure of cost a percentage of revenue of revenue.
performance over time in relation to revenue activity.
Other direct costs as Other direct costs include, direct costs and Provides a comparable measure of cost a percentage of revenue medical fees as a percentage of revenue.
Self-pay revenue growth Self-pay revenue segment as shown in note 6 Key pillar of Groups strategy.
on the Consolidated financial statements.
Underlying Adjustments have been made to exclude the trading results of any new and redeveloped hospitals, closure or disposal in current or prior periods.
Underlying revenue Revenue adjusted for the trading results of Spire Provides a comparable measure of adjusted Manchester, Nottingham, St Anthonys hospitals revenue performance over time.
Underlying operating profit Operating profit adjusted for the trading results Provides a comparable measure of adjusted of Spire Manchester, Nottingham, St Anthonys profit performance over time.
Underlying EBITDA EBITDA as defined above, adjusted for the Provides a comparable measure of underlying trading results of Spire Manchester, Nottingham, EBITDA performance over time.
St Anthonys hospitals and Lifescan.
Underlying EBITDA margin Underlying EBITDA as a percentage of Provides a comparable performance metric, underlying revenue.
expressed as a percentage of revenue.
Underlying clinical staff Clinical staff costs and medical fees adjusted Provides a comparable performance metric, costs as a percentage for the trading results of Spire Manchester, expressed as a percentage of revenue.
of underlying revenue Nottingham, St Anthonys hospitals and Lifescan, as a percentage of underlying revenue.
Underlying other direct Other direct costs including direct costs and Provides a comparable performance metric, costs as a percentage medical fees adjusted for the trading results expressed as a percentage of revenue.
of underlying revenue of Spire Manchester, Nottingham, St Anthonys hospitals and Lifescan, as a percentage of underlying revenue.
152 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
