142 143 Statement of Independent Directors responsibilities Auditors report The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Report on the audit of the financial statements Our audit approach the report of the Remuneration Committee and the financial of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Opinion Overview statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial In our opinion, Derwent London plcs Group financial statements Materiality statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and Company financial statements the financial statements : Overall Group materiality: Materiality Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 50.1 million 2016: 50.5 million, statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the based on 1% of total assets.
have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups Specific Group materiality: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the 4.0 million 2016: 4.0 million Audit scope as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the Directors must not the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
year then ended: applied to property and other approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs income, administrative expenses, Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the provisions and working page 90, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance capital balances.
Key audit preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Overall Company materiality: matters The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 34.2 million 2016: 40.4 million accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial based on 2% of total assets.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit consistently: statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and loss of the Group: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are Audit scope The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development reasonable and prudent: We have audited the financial statements, included within the We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed and performance of the business and the position of the Group, state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial together with a description of the principal risks and Union have been followed, subject to any material departures the balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: the Group income statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic uncertainties that it faces.
disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis the year ended 31 December 2017: the cash flow statements and the industry in which the Group operates.
The financial statements on pages 149 to 201 were approved by unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will for the year ended 31 December 2017: the statements of changes The Groups properties are spread across 27 statutory entities the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: continue in business.
in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017: and the notes with the Group financial statements being a consolidation of to the financial statements, which include a description of the these entities, the Company and the Groups joint ventures.
John Burns The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting significant accounting policies.
All parts of the Group, including the joint ventures, were Chief Executive records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys identified as requiring an audit of their complete financial transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics Damian Wisniewski time the financial position of the Company and the Group and or statutory requirement.
This work, all of which was carried Finance Director Basis for opinion enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the out by the Group audit team, together with additional 27 February 2018 We conducted our audit in accordance with International report of the Remuneration Committee comply with the procedures performed on the consolidation, gave us sufficient Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also financial statements as a whole.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Key audit matters have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Valuation of investment properties Group.
Compliance with REIT guidelines Group.
Accounting for borrowings and derivatives Group and parent.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the The scope of our audit ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant these requirements.
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonaudit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
