196 197 Notes to the financial statements Continued 40 Gearing and interest cover 41 Significant accounting policies NAV gearing Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Derwent London plc and all of its subsidiaries, together with 2017 2016 the Groups share of the results of its joint ventures.
m m Net debt 657.9 904.8 Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns Net assets 4,193.2 3,999.4 through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
NAV gearing 15.7% 22.6% Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting as permitted by IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, and following Loan-to-value ratio the procedures for this method set out in IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
The equity method requires the 2017 2016 Groups share of the joint ventures post-tax profit or loss for the year to be presented separately in the income statement and the m m Groups share of the joint ventures net assets to be presented separately in the balance sheet.
Net debt 657.9 904.8 Fair value adjustment of secured bonds 12.9 14.0 Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Unamortised issue and arrangement costs 8.6 10.3 consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Leasehold liabilities 14.1 23.9 Groups interest in the joint venture concerned.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way, but only to the extent that there Drawn debt 639.5 877.2 is no evidence of impairment.
Fair value of property portfolio 4,850.3 4,942.7 Gross property income Gross property income arises from two main sources: Loan-to-value ratio 13.2% 17.7% i Rental income This arises from operating leases granted to tenants.
An operating lease is a lease other than a finance lease.
A finance lease is one whereby substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are passed to the lessee.
Net interest cover ratio Rental income is recognised in the Group income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease in accordance with 2017 2016 m m SIC 15 Operating Leases Incentives and IAS 17 Leases.
This includes the effect of lease incentives given to tenants, which are Net property and other income 164.8 149.2 normally in the form of rent free or half rent periods or capital contributions in lieu of rent free periods, and the effect of contracted Adjustments for: rent uplifts and payments received from tenants on the grant of leases.
Other income 2.7 2.4 For income from property leased out under a finance lease, a lease receivable asset is recognised in the balance sheet at an Other property income 0.5 amount equal to the net investment in the lease, as defined in IAS 17 Leases.
Minimum lease payments receivable, again defined Net surrender premiums received 0.1 0.1 in IAS 17, are apportioned between finance income and the reduction of the outstanding lease receivable so as to produce a Reversal of write-down write-down of trading property 1.0 1.6 constant periodic rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Contingent rents, being the difference between Profit on disposal of trading properties 1.9 the rent currently receivable and the minimum lease payments when the net investment in the lease was originally calculated, Reverse surrender premiums 0.2 0.1 are recognised in property income in the years in which they are receivable.
Adjusted net property income 161.2 146.0 ii Surrender premiums Payments received from tenants to surrender their lease obligations are recognised immediately in the Finance costs 27.1 27.8 Group income statement.
27.1 27.8 Adjustments for: Other income Other finance costs 0.1 0.1 Other income consists of commissions and fees arising from the management of the Groups properties and is recognised in the Amortisation of fair value adjustment to secured bonds 1.1 1.0 Group income statement in accordance with the delivery of service.
Amortisation of issue and arrangement costs 2.0 2.2 Finance costs capitalised 9.4 13.0 Net interest payable 35.5 39.5 Net interest cover ratio 454% 370% Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 198 199 Notes to the financial statements Continued 41 Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations Expenses Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition method.
Any excess of the purchase price of business combinations i Lease payments Where investment properties are held under operating leases, the leasehold interest is classified as if it were over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and resulting deferred tax thereon is recognised as held under a finance lease, which is recognised at its fair value on the balance sheet, within the investment property carrying goodwill.
Any discount is credited to the Group income statement in the period of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and value.
Upon initial recognition, a corresponding liability is included as a finance lease liability.
Minimum lease payments are reviewed for impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Group income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability so as to produce a constant periodic rate Any residual goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment.
of interest on the remaining finance lease liability.
Contingent rents payable, being the difference between the rent currently payable and the minimum lease payments when the lease liability was originally calculated, are charged as expenses within Investment property property expenditure in the years in which they are payable.
i Valuation Investment properties are those that are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both, including those that are undergoing redevelopment.
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including related transaction costs.
ii Dilapidations Dilapidations monies received from tenants in respect of their lease obligations are recognised immediately in the After initial recognition, they are carried in the Group balance sheet at fair value adjusted for the carrying value of leasehold Group income statement, unless they relate to future capital expenditure.
In the latter case, where the costs are considered to be interests and lease incentive and letting cost receivables.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an investment recoverable they are capitalised as part of the carrying value of the property.
property in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The valuation is undertaken by independent valuers who hold recognised and relevant professional qualifications and have recent experience in the locations iii Reverse surrender premiums Payments made to tenants to surrender their lease obligations are charged directly to the Group and categories of properties being valued.
income statement unless the payment is to enable the probable redevelopment of a property.
In the latter case, where the costs are considered to be recoverable, they are capitalised as part of the carrying value of the property.
Surpluses or deficits resulting from changes in the fair value of investment property are reported in the Group income statement in the year in which they arise.
iv Other property expenditure Vacant property costs and other property costs are expensed in the year to which they relate, with the exception of the initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging leases which are, in accordance with IAS 17 Leases, ii Capital expenditure Capital expenditure, being costs directly attributable to the redevelopment or refurbishment of an added to the carrying value of the relevant property and recognised as an expense over the lease term on the same basis as the investment property, up to the point of it being completed for its intended use, are capitalised in the carrying value of that lease income.
In addition, in accordance with IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, finance costs that are directly attributable to such expenditure are capitalised using the Groups average cost of borrowings during each quarter.
Employee benefits i Share-based remuneration iii Disposal Properties are treated as disposed when the Group transfers the significant risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer.
Generally this would occur on completion of contract.
On disposal, any gain or loss is calculated as the difference between the net Equity settled The Company operates a long-term incentive plan and share option scheme.
The fair value of the conditional disposal proceeds and the carrying value at the last year end plus subsequent capitalised expenditure during the year.
Where the awards of shares granted under the long-term incentive plan and the options granted under the share option scheme are net disposal proceeds have yet to be finalised at the balance sheet date, the proceeds recognised reflect the Directors best determined at the date of grant.
This fair value is then expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the amounts expected to be received.
Any contingent consideration is recognised at fair value at the balance sheet estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
At each reporting date, the non-market based performance criteria date.
The fair value is calculated using future discounted cash flows based on expected outcomes with estimated probabilities of the long-term incentive plan are reconsidered and the expense is revised as necessary.
In respect of the share option taking account of the risk and uncertainty of each input.
scheme, the fair value of the options granted is calculated using a binomial lattice pricing model.
iv Development When the Group begins to redevelop an existing investment property for continued use as an investment property Under the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, no expense is recognised for options or conditional shares granted on or before or acquires a property with the subsequent intention of developing as an investment property, the property is classified as an 7 November 2002. investment property and is accounted for as such.
When the Group begins to redevelop an existing investment property with a view to sale, the property is transferred to trading properties and held as a current asset.
The property is remeasured to fair value ii Pensions as at the date of transfer with any gain or loss being taken to the income statement.
The remeasured amount becomes the deemed cost at which the property is then carried in trading properties.
a Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the Group income statement in the period to which they relate.
Trading property Trading property relate to property being developed for sale.
In accordance with IAS 2 Inventories, they are held at the lower of cost b Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension and net realisable value.
plans, is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Any actuarial gain or loss in the period is recognised in full in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 200 201 Notes to the financial statements Continued 41 Significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities Property, plant and equipment i Bank loans and fixed rate loans Bank loans and fixed rate loans are included as financial liabilities on the balance sheets at the i Owner-occupied property Owner-occupied property is stated at its revalued amount, which is determined in the same manner amounts drawn on the particular facilities.
Interest payable is expensed as a finance cost in the year to which it relates.
It is depreciated over its remaining useful life 40 years with the depreciation included in administrative expenses.
On revaluation, any accumulated depreciation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the property ii Non-convertible bonds These are included as a financial liability on the balance sheet net of the unamortised discount and costs concerned, and the net amount restated to the revalued amount.
Subsequent depreciation charges are adjusted based on the on issue.
The difference between this carrying value and the redemption value is recognised in the Group income statement over revalued amount for each property.
Any difference between the depreciation charge on the revalued amount and that which the life of the bond on an effective interest basis.
Interest payable to bond holders is expensed in the year to which it relates.
would have been charged under historic cost is transferred, net of any related deferred tax, between the revaluation reserve and retained earnings as the property is utilised.
Surpluses or deficits resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in iii Convertible bonds The fair value of the liability component of a convertible bond is determined using the market interest rate the Group statement of comprehensive income.
The land element of the property is not depreciated.
for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option.
This is recognised ii Artwork Artwork is stated at revalued amounts on the basis of open market value.
and included in shareholders equity, net of income tax effects and is not subsequently remeasured.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and the equity components of the convertible bonds based on their carrying amounts at the date of issue.
iii Other Plant and equipment is depreciated at a rate of between 10% and 25% per annum which is calculated to write off the The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The issue costs apportioned to the liability are cost, less estimated residual value of the individual assets, over their expected useful lives.
amortised over the life of the bond.
The issue costs apportioned to equity are not amortised.
Investments iv Finance lease liabilities Finance lease liabilities arise for those investment properties held under a leasehold interest and Investments in joint ventures, being those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, as established by contractual accounted for as investment property.
The liability is initially calculated as the present value of the minimum lease payments, agreement, are included in the Groups balance sheet at cost together with the Groups share of post-acquisition reserves, on a net reducing in subsequent years by the apportionment of payments to the lessor, as described above under the heading for equity basis.
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures are included in the Companys balance sheet at the lower of cost and lease payments.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
v Interest rate derivatives The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage the interest rate risk associated with the Non-current assets held for sale financing of the Groups business.
No trading in financial instruments is undertaken.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying value will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met if the sale is highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present At each reporting date, these interest rate derivatives are measured at fair value, being the estimated amount that the Group condition, being actively marketed and management is committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as would receive or pay to terminate the agreement at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
current credit rating of the counterparties.
The gain or loss at each fair value remeasurement is recognised in the Group income statement because the Group does not apply hedge accounting.
Non-current assets, including related liabilities, classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs of disposal.
vi Trade payables Trade payables are recognised and carried at the original transaction value.
Financial assets Deferred tax i Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and on-demand deposits less overdrafts.
Cash equivalents comprise Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the tax computations, and is accounted for using the balance insignificant risk of changes in value.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences ii Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the original transaction value.
A provision for impairment is can be utilised.
In respect of the deferred tax on the revaluation surplus, this is calculated on the basis of the chargeable gains that established where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original would crystallise on the sale of the investment portfolio as at the reporting date.
The calculation takes account of available terms of the receivables concerned.
indexation on the historic cost of the properties.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period, based on Acts substantially enacted at the year end, when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is included in profit or loss for the period, except when it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Cash flow Transactions in the cash flow statement under operating, investing and financing activities have been prepared net of value added tax in order to reflect the true cash inflows and outflows of the Group.
Dividends Dividends payable on the ordinary share capital are recognised in the year in which they are declared.
Foreign currency translation Transactions entered into by Group entities in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing at the transaction dates.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from settlement of these transactions and from retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Group income statement.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
