154 155 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 1 Basis of preparation IFRS 2 amended Share Based Payments: 3 Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates 4 Segmental information The financial statements have been prepared in accordance IFRS 4 amended Insurance Contracts: The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted IAS 40 amended Investment Property: IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and be identified on the basis of internal financial reports about by the European Union IFRS, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts: judgements.
It also requires management to exercise judgement components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
chief operating decision maker which in the Groups case is 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Consideration: The Groups significant accounting policies are stated in note the Executive Committee comprising the six executive Directors financial statements have been prepared under the historical IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments: and 41.
Not all of these accounting policies require management to and five senior managers in order to allocate resources to the cost convention as modified by the revaluation of investment Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 2016 cycle.
make difficult, subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
segments and to assess their performance.
properties, property, plant and equipment and financial Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are In addition to the above, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 The internal financial reports received by the Groups Executive assets and liabilities held for trading.
based on historical experience and other factors, including Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases were Committee contain financial information at a Group level as a expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable Going concern in issue at the date of approval of these financial statements but whole and there are no reconciling items between the results under the circumstances.
Although these estimates are based The Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing were not yet effective for the current accounting period and have contained in these reports and the amounts reported in the on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or these consolidated financial statements.
In considering this not been adopted early.
These internal financial reports include the actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
The requirement, the Directors have taken into account the following: IFRS figures but also report the non-IFRS figures for the EPRA following is intended to provide an understanding of the policies IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective from 1 January 2018 earnings and net asset value.
Reconciliations of each of these that management consider critical because of the level of The Groups latest rolling forecast for the next two years, in This standard applies to classification and measurement of figures to their statutory equivalents are detailed in note 38. complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application particular the cash flows, borrowings and undrawn facilities.
financial assets and financial liabilities, impairment provisioning Additionally, information is provided to the Executive Committee and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Sensitivity analysis is included within these forecasts.
Managements assessment of IFRS 9 showing gross property income and property valuation by The headroom under the Groups financial covenants.
determined that the main area of potential impact was impairment Key sources of estimation uncertainty individual property.
Therefore, for the purposes of IFRS 8, each The current and forecast risks included on the Groups provisioning on trade receivables for the Group and balances due Property portfolio valuation individual property is considered to be a separate operating Risk Register that could impact on the Groups liquidity from subsidiaries for the Company.
In both cases, this was due The Group uses the valuation carried out by its independent segment in that its performance is monitored individually.
and solvency over the next 12 months from the date of to the requirement to use a forward-looking expected credit loss valuers as the fair value of its property portfolio.
The valuation approval of the financial statements.
Having carried out an assessment, it is considered that The Groups property portfolio includes investment property, is based upon assumptions including future rental income, the introduction of IFRS 9 will not have a material impact on the owner-occupied property and trading property and comprised anticipated maintenance costs, future development costs and 1 2 Changes in accounting policies financial statements of either the Group or the Company.
97% office buildings by value at 31 December 2017 2016: 95%.
The valuers also make reference The principal accounting policies are described in note 41 and are The Directors consider that these individual properties have similar to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
consistent with those applied in the Groups financial statements IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers economic characteristics and therefore have been aggregated More information is provided in note 16. for the year to 31 December 2016, as amended to reflect the effective from 1 January 2018 into a single operating segment.
The remaining 3% 2016: 5% adoption of new standards, amendments and interpretations IFRS 15 combines a number of previous standards, setting out Borrowings and derivatives represented a mixture of retail, hotel, residential and light industrial which became effective in the year as shown below.
a five-step model for the recognition of revenue and establishing The fair values of the Groups borrowings and interest rate swaps properties, as well as land, each of which is fide minimis in its own principles for reporting useful information to users of financial are based on estimates provided by independent third parties.
right and below the quantitative threshold in aggregate.
Therefore, New standards adopted during the year statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty The estimates are based on the terms of each of the financial in the view of the Directors, there is one reportable segment under The following standards, amendments and interpretations of revenue.
The standard is applicable to service charge income, instruments using data available in the financial markets.
More the provisions of IFRS 8. endorsed by the EU were effective for the first time for the facilities management income, investment property disposals information is provided in note 23.
Groups 31 December 2017 year end and had no material and trading property disposals, but excludes rent receivable, All of the Groups properties are based in the UK.
No geographical impact on the financial statements.
which is within the scope of IFRS 16.
The Group has completed Significant judgements grouping is contained in any of the internal financial reports its assessment of IFRS 15 and considers that its adoption will Compliance with the real estate investment trust REIT provided to the Groups Executive Committee and, therefore, no IAS 7 amended Statement of Cash Flows: not have a material impact on the financial statements.
taxation regime geographical segmental analysis is required by IFRS 8.
However, IAS 12 amended Income Taxes: and As a consequence of the Groups REIT status, income and geographical analysis is included in the tables below to provide IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 chargeable gains on the qualifying property rental business users with additional information regarding the areas contained This standard does not substantially affect the accounting for are exempt from corporation tax.
The majority of the Groups properties Standards in issue but not yet effective rental income earned by the Group as lessor.
The main impact are located in London West End central, West End borders and The following standards, amendments and interpretations were of the standard is the removal of the distinction between In order for the Group to remain in the REIT regime, it is subject City borders, with the remainder in Scotland Provincial.
in issue at the date of approval of these financial statements operating and finance leases for lessees, which will result to a number of criteria that it must meet in each accounting 1 but were not yet effective for the current accounting year and Some office buildings have an ancillary element such as retail or residential.
in almost all leases being recognised on the balance sheet.
The Group comfortably met all the criteria in 2017 have not been adopted early.
Based on the Groups current As the Group does not hold any material operating leases ensuring our REIT status is maintained.
The Directors intend that circumstances the Directors do not anticipate that their adoption as lessee, the impact of the standard is not expected to be the Group should continue as a REIT for the foreseeable future.
in future periods will have a material impact on the financial material to the financial statements.
Income that does not qualify as property income within the REIT rules is subject to corporation tax in the normal way.
Such income includes development fees, interest income, sale of trading properties and our interest in unelected joint ventures.
The Group has maintained its low risk rating with HMRC due to the continued regular dialogue we maintain with them and our transparent approach.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
