Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 1.
General information Spire Healthcare Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively, the Group owns and operates private hospitals and clinics in the UK and provides a range of private healthcare services.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 1 March 2018.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange, incorporated, registered and domiciled in England and Wales registered number: 9084066.
The address of its registered office is 3 Dorset Rise, London EC4Y 8EN.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and on an historical cost basis.
The Group financial statements are presented in UK sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest million pounds million, except when otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
Further details on the Groups critical judgements and estimates are included in note 3.
Going concern The Group is financed by a bank loan facility that matures in July 2019.
The Directors have considered the Groups forecasts, projections, ability to refinance, and the risks associated with their delivery, and are satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within the covenants imposed by the bank loan facility for at least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements.
In relation to available cash resources, the Directors have had regard to both cash at bank and a 100.0 million committed undrawn revolving credit facility.
Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Revenue recognition The Group derives its revenue primarily from providing private healthcare services to both the public sector and private patients in the UK.
Revenue from charges to patients is recognised when the treatment is provided.
Interest income Interest is recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
Cost of sales Cost of sales principally comprises salaries of clinical staff, consultant and clinical fees, medical services and inventories, including drugs, consumables and prostheses.
Other operating costs Other operating costs mainly comprise non-clinical staff costs, rent associated with properties leased under operating leases, depreciation, maintenance and running costs of properties and equipment.
It also includes administrative expenses, including the provision of central support services, IT and other administrative costs.
Operating profit Operating profit is the profit arising from the normal, recurring operations of the business and after charging exceptional and other items, as defined below.
Operating profit is adjusted to exclude exceptional and other items to calculate the Key Performance Indicator Operating profit before exceptional and other items.
Exceptional and other items Exceptional items are those items which, by virtue of their nature, size or incidence, either individually or in aggregate, need to be disclosed separately to allow a full understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Items which may be considered exceptional in nature include significant write-downs of goodwill and other assets, restructuring costs, impairments, hospital closures and set-up costs, business acquisition costs, medical malpractice provision, aborted project costs and executive medical leave and death in service.
Other items are those items which the Directors believe are relevant to the understanding of the results for the year and which are excluded from the adjusted measures, where the Directors considered necessary to do so due to their nature or amount, to provide further understanding of the Groups financial performance and comparability between reporting periods.
Other items include compliance set-up costs and deferred tax adjustments in relation to revised property carrying values.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the statement of cash flows.
There are no bank overdrafts in either year presented.
115 115 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Taxation including deferred taxation Total income tax on the result for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity and other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised directly in equity and other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable result for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted, at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, except for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and which, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss: and investments in subsidiary companies where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted, at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be used.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Major projects are treated as assets in the course of construction until completed when they are transferred to the appropriate asset class.
No depreciation is charged on freehold land or assets in the course of construction.
Other assets are depreciated so as to write-off the carrying amounts of the assets, less their estimated residual values, over their expected useful lives, as follows: Freehold buildings and improvements 5 to 50 years Leasehold buildings and improvements lower of unexpired lease term or expected life, with a maximum of 35 years Plant and machinery 5 to 10 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 to 10 years The expected useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed annually and revised as appropriate.
The review of the asset lives and residual values of properties takes into consideration the plans of the business and levels of expenditure incurred on an ongoing basis to maintain the properties in a fit and proper state for their ongoing use as hospitals.
Consolidation The results of all subsidiary undertakings are included in the Consolidated financial statements.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
The Employee Benefit Trust EBT is treated as an extension of the Group and the Company.
116 116 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 2.
Accounting policies continued Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in other operating costs.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of acquired businesses at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to one cash-generating unit and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there is an indication that the value of the goodwill may be impaired.
Financial Instruments i Financial assets other than derivatives Initial recognition and measurement All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The Companys financial assets include cash and short-term deposits and trade and other receivables.
Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale financial assets, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Company determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Subsequent measurement Trade receivables are generally accounted for at amortised cost.
The Company reviews indicators of impairment on an ongoing basis and where such indicators exist, the Company makes an estimate of the asset's recoverable amount.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
On initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, such assets are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate EIR method, less any allowance for impairment.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included in interest receivable in the Consolidated income statement.
Losses arising from impairment are recognised in the Consolidated income statement in Other operating costs.
ii Financial liabilities other than derivatives Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge as appropriate.
The Company determines the classification of financial liabilities at initial recognition.
Initial recognition and measurement All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and in the case of loans and borrowings, plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in interest receivable and interest payable.
iii Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost means purchase price, less trade discounts, calculated on an average basis.
Net realisable value means estimated selling price, less trade discounts, and less all costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The Group holds consignment stock on sale or return.
The Group is only required to pay for the equipment it chooses to use and therefore this stock is not recognised as an asset.
1 117 17 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc Annu c Annua al Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost on an effective interest basis.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition and construction of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected, risk-adjusted, future cash flows at a pre-tax risk-free rate.
Provisions are measured gross of any expected insurance recovery.
Any such insurance recoveries are recognised in other receivables when the receipt of them is judged sufficiently probable.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangements at the inception date: whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Leasing arrangements which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are treated as if the asset had been purchased outright.
The assets are included in tangible assets and depreciated over their estimated economic lives or over the term of the lease, whichever is the shorter.
The capital element of the leasing commitments is included in liabilities as obligations under finance leases.
The lease rentals are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements.
The capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding obligation and the interest element is charged to the income statement in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Sale and leaseback of properties In circumstances where the Group sells a property to a third party and then enters into an agreement with the buyer to lease the asset back under an operating lease a sale and leaseback transaction, the asset is shown as disposed from property, plant and equipment.
If the sale is at fair value, the profit or loss on disposal is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the sale price is below fair value, the profit or loss on disposal is also recognised immediately, except if a loss is compensated for by future rentals being below a market price, in which case the loss is amortised over the life of the lease.
If the sale price is above fair value, the excess over fair value is deferred and amortised over the period of the lease.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are deducted from share premium.
Where the employee benefit trust purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders in both the Company and the Consolidated balance sheet until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Pensions The Group operates the Spire Healthcare Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Other employee benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A provision is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonuses if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
11 118 8 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 2.
Accounting policies continued Share based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based payment schemes under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
Where the share awards have non-market related performance criteria, the Group has used the Black Scholes valuation model to establish the relevant fair values.
Where the share awards have total shareholder return TSR marketrelated performance criteria, the Group has used the Monte Carlo simulation valuation model to establish the relevant fair values see note 21.
The resulting fair values are recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the options.
At the end of each year, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market conditions and recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered to be an integral part of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Changes in accounting policy New standards, interpretations and amendments applied The following amendments to existing standards were effective for the Group from 1 January 2017, but either they were not applicable to or did not have a material impact on the Group: Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiatives Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20142016 Cycle: Clarification of the scope of the disclosure requirements in IFRS 12 IAS 12 Income taxes Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised losses New standards, interpretations and amendments not applied As at date of approval of the Group financial statements, the following new and amended standards, interpretations and amendments in issue are applicable to the Group but not yet effective and thus, have not been applied by the Group: Effective date IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 Clarification to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share based Payment Transactions 1 January 2018 Annual Improvements 20142016 Cycle 1 January 2018 IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 1 January 2018 Annual Improvements 20152017 Cycle 1 January 2019 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IASB IFRIC standards and interpretations.
As the Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, the application of new standards and interpretations will be subject to their having been endorsed for use in the EU via the EU Endorsement mechanism.
In the majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with that given in the original standard or interpretation but the need for endorsement restricts the Groups discretion to early adopt standards.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, these standards and interpretation have not yet been endorsed or adopted by the EU.
The Directors do not expect the adoption of these standards, interpretations and amendments to have a material impact on the Consolidated or Parent Company financial statements in the period of initial application, except for IFRS 16 Leases.
The Groups assessment of the impact of applying IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 are discussed on page 120.
1 119 19 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro oup p up pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 2.
Accounting policies continued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted.
The standard endorsed on 22 September 2016 establishes a five-step principle-based approach for revenue recognition and is based on the concept of recognising an amount that reflects the consideration for performance obligations only when they are satisfied and the control of goods or services is transferred.
It applies to all contracts with customers, except those in the scope of other standards.
It replaces the separate models for goods, services and construction contracts under the current accounting standards.
Impact of adoption The Group is in the business of providing healthcare services.
During 2017, the Group completed an impact assessment of IFRS 15 and concluded that the adoption of IFRS 15 will have an insignificant impact on its consolidated results.
As such, the Group will adopt IFRS 15 with effect from 1 January 2018 using the Modified Retrospective approach.
Analysis Approximately 70% of the Groups revenue is derived from in-patient and daycase admissions.
Revenue is recognised day by day, as services are provided to patients.
These services are typically provided over a short time frame, that is, one to three days.
Out-patient cases and other revenue represent approximately 30% of the Groups revenue.
Out-patient cases generally do not involve surgical procedures and revenue is recognised on an individual component basis when performance obligations are satisfied.
Similarly, other revenue, which includes consultant revenue and other third-party revenue streams, is recognised when performance obligations are satisfied and the control of goods or services is transferred.
The current revenue recognition policy is in line with the requirements of IFRS 15 five-step model.
Disaggregated revenue disclosure Spire Healthcare reports disaggregated revenue by material revenue stream i. e. type of payor: PMI, NHS and Self-pay and other revenue which includes consultant revenue, third-party revenue streams e. g. pathology services and of commissioning for quality and innovation payments CQUIN.
Material revenue streams are consistent in nature, being the consideration received in return for the provision of healthcare services to patients.
The timing and uncertainty of cash flows is similar for PMI and NHS business while Self-pay revenue is received in advance or collected by credit card shortly after treatment.
In addition, Spire Healthcare reports revenue split between in-patient daycase, out-patient and other.
As noted above, in all cases, revenue is recognised as performance obligations are completed in the form of services being provided to patients.
Uninvoiced revenue is accrued at period ends.
Invoices for the combination of services provided to patients are generally produced within three days of discharge.
Spire Healthcare believes that these disclosures satisfy the requirements of IFRS 15 to enable the reader to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 with early adoption permitted for entities that apply IFRS 15 at or before the date of initial application of IFRS 16.
IFRS 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting model for lessees.
A lessee recognises a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
There are recognition exemptions for short-term leases and leases of low-value items.
The Group has completed an initial assessment of the potential significant impact on its Consolidated financial statements but has not yet completed a detailed assessment of all leases.
At 31 December 2017, the Groups future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases amounted to 1,587.6 million, on an undiscounted basis.
In addition, the nature of expenses related to those leases will now change as IFRS 16 replaces the straight-line operating expense with a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and interest expense on lease liabilities.
No significant impact is expected for the contracts currently accounted for as finance leases.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 sets out requirements for recognising and measuring financial assets, liabilities and some contract to buy or sell non-financial items.
The standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 new impairment models requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on the expected credit loss ECL model which replaces the incurred loss model in IAS 39.
Under the new loss allowance method, it can be measured on either of the following bases: 12 month ECLs: these are ECLs that result from possible default events within the 12 months after the reporting date: and Lifetime ECLs: these ECLs that result from all possible default events over the expected life of the financial instrument.
Concerning impairment, the Directors expect to apply the simplified approach to recognise lifetime ECLs for the Groups trade receivables.
This will result in an insignificant increase to the impairment provision on adoption of IFRS9 and going forwards greater judgement due to the need to factor in forward looking information when estimating the appropriate amount of provision.
In applying IFRS 9 the Group must consider the probability of default occurring over the contractual life of its trade receivables.
1 120 20 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 3.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates In the application of the Groups accounting policies, the Directors are required to make judgements and estimates about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The following accounting policies have been identified as involving particularly complex judgements or subjective estimates: Judgements Exceptional and other items Judgements are required as to whether items that are material in size, unusual or infrequent in nature should be disclosed as exceptional and other items.
Deciding which items meet the respective definitions requires the Group to exercise its judgement.
Details of these items categorised as exceptional and other items are outlined in note 9.
Estimates Deferred tax liabilities and assets The Group owns a portfolio of freehold and leasehold property interests.
In previous years, the Group had recognised a deferred tax liability in its financial statements in respect of capital gains tax and other taxes based on the assumption that a proportion of the freehold properties would have been disposed of in future years, whilst the remaining properties were realised through use.
This calculation previously required judgement about the timing and number of the related property disposals, which was potentially impacted by changes to plans made by the business over time and, in particular, changes in business plans in respect of the holding or disposing of properties.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unutilised trading losses and capital losses.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable income will be available in future against which they can be utilised.
Future taxable profits are estimated based on business plans which include estimates and assumptions regarding economic growth, interest, inflation rates and taxation rates.
During 2016, the Group considered it to be appropriate to reassess the basis for calculating deferred tax on the property portfolio and has since based the assessment on solely held-in-use basis.
In 2016 this gave rise to a material tax charge of 8.4 million refer to note 11.
Goodwill Goodwill is considered for impairment at least annually or more frequently if there is an indication that goodwill may be impaired.
This is achieved by comparing the value-in-use of the goodwill with its carrying value in the accounts.
The value-in-use calculations require the Group to estimate future cash flows expected to arise in the future, taking into account market conditions.
The present value of these cash flows is determined using an appropriate discount rate.
The assumptions considered to be most critical in reviewing goodwill for impairment are contained in note 14.
Leases In the determination of the classification of a number of leases over hospital properties as operating leases, assumptions have been made about the discount rate applied to the annual rent payable over the remainder of the lease term compared against their respective fair values and of the useful economic life of the hospitals.
Further information about commitments under these leases is given in note 25.
Share based payments At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The assumptions considered to be most critical in estimating share based payments are contained in note 21.
Provision for medical malpractice claims In the measurement of such provisions where the recognition criteria are met, the typical complexity of claims for example, in respect of their outcome and the extent of damages if any assessed on the Group requires management to use estimation.
Such estimates are typically based on professional advice on expected outcomes and historical information on similar claims.
In some cases, judgement is also required, for example, as to whether the criteria for recognising provisions are met and whether a reliable estimate of the outcomes can be made.
Further details of claims and the amounts provided are given in note 22.
Property impairment Property is considered for impairment at least annually or more frequently if there is an indication that carrying amount may be impaired.
This is achieved by comparing the value-in-use of the property with its carrying value in the accounts.
The value-in-use calculations require the Group to estimate cash flows expected to arise in the future, taking into account market conditions.
1 121 21 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 4.
Non-current assets held for sale As at December 2017, the Groups management have committed to sell two properties which previously formed part of the Group operations, Spire St Saviours Hospital which closed in 2015 and Whalley Range, Manchester which is due to close in April 2018.
The properties are expected to be sold within twelve months, have been classified as held for sale and are presented separately in the Consolidated balance sheet.
The proceeds of disposal are expected to exceed the net carrying amount of the relevant assets and accordingly, no impairment loss has been recognised on the classification of these operations as held for sale.
million 2017 Spire St Saviours Hospital note 13 2.0 Whalley Range property note 13 3.6 5.6 5.
Operating profit Arrived at after charging crediting : million 2017 2016 Rent of land and buildings under operating leases 63.9 62.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 57.4 51.9 Ian Paterson claims and related costs see note 9 28.7 Reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment see note 13 1.9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment see note 13 10.3 0.5 Write-off intangible assets 1.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 10.8 Staff costs see note 8 282.1 268.0 Impairment losses and reversals of impairment are included in other operating costs.
1 122 22 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 6.
Segmental reporting In determining the Groups operating segment, management has primarily considered the financial information in internal reports that are reviewed and used by the executive management team and Board of Directors in aggregate the chief operating decision maker in assessing performance and in determining the allocation of resources.
The financial information in those internal reports in respect of revenue and expenses has led management to conclude that the Group has a single operating segment, being the provision of healthcare services.
All revenue is attributable to and all non-current assets are located in the United Kingdom.
Finance income and costs million 2017 2016 Finance income Interest income on bank deposits 0.1 0.2 Finance costs Interest on bank facilities 11.8 12.7 Interest on obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 9.2 9.1 Financed costs capitalised in the year 0.7 1.8 Total finance costs 20.3 20.0 Finance costs capitalised during the year were calculated based on a weighted cost of borrowing of 3.4% 2016: 3.5%.
Staff costs The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category was as follows: No.
2017 2016 Clinical 6,301 6,128 Non-clinical 5,043 4,848 11,344 10,976 The average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: No.
2017 2016 Clinical 4,391 4,245 Non-clinical 3,990 3,810 8,381 8,055 The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: million 2017 2016 Wages and salaries 242.1 230.4 Social security costs 21.6 20.4 Pension costs, defined contribution scheme 18.4 17.2 282.1 268.0 Included in wages and salaries and social security costs for year ended 31 December 2017 are exceptional items of 3.7 million 2016: 3.4 million and 0.3 million 2016: 0.3 million, respectively.
Refer to note 9 for further details.
Pension costs are in respect of the defined contribution scheme: unpaid contributions at 31 December 2017 were 1.8 million 2016: 1.6 million.
1 123 23 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 9.
Exceptional and other items million 2017 2016 Ian Paterson claims and related costs 28.7 Write-off and aborted project costs 14.4 Hospital set-up and closure costs 3.4 1.1 Executive medical leave and death in service 0.9 Business reorganisation and corporate restructuring 0.6 5.3 Write-off intangible assets 1.3 Hospital reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment 1.9 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment also referred to as the Asset Swap Transaction 8.9 1 Other 0.7 0.5 Total exceptional costs see also other items 48.7 15.2 Income tax credit on exceptional items 8.0 0.6 Total post-tax exceptional items 40.7 14.6 1 Other exceptional items in 2017 predominantly relate to the Mediclinic takeover bid, relocation of HR and payroll functions and the release of an onerous lease provision.
In 2016 the costs primarily relate to National Insurance on Directors Share Bonus Award granted at the time of the IPO.
Following the completion of the criminal proceedings against Ian Paterson a consultant who previously had practicing privileges at Spire Healthcare earlier in 2017, Spire Healthcare settled all current and known claims against Spire relating to his practice at Spire Healthcare.
Accordingly, Spire Healthcare has provided 28.7 million in relation to this settlement, plus related costs, of which 26.1 million has been paid.
Spire is currently pursuing legal action against its insurers to seek recoveries against this settlement and related costs, which may give rise to future exceptional income being recognised in the income statement.
No account has been taken of these further recoveries in the results for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In the final quarter of 2017, management undertook a strategic review of its current portfolio of sites and the future development options for the Group.
As part of the process, the decision was taken to cease the provision of radiotherapy services at the Spire Specialist Cancer Care Centre in Baddow Essex as a consequence of poor commercial performance.
The charge for the year includes 10.3 million for the write-off of fixed assets, net of recoverable value, and a provision for site closure costs.
Additionally, certain well progressed capital projects, notably the development of a hospital in Central London, have been aborted and the costs associated with these projects have been charged as exceptional items in the year due to the fundamental change in development strategy.
Hospital set-up and closure costs include the pre-opening expenses for the two new hospitals opened during 2017 Spire Manchester and Spire Nottingham hospitals, plus the decommissioning costs of the former Manchester hospital site.
An Executive Director had a period of illness during 2017.
Costs associated with his remuneration during his medical leave were duplicative to the business.
After sadly passing away in July 2017, Spire Healthcare made a death in service payment which has also been included in exceptional items.
In the year ended 31 December 2016, business reorganisation mainly comprised staff restructuring costs and the closure costs relating to an onerous contract.
In the year, the Groups goodwill in relation to the Lifescan business was written-off following a strategic review and the closure of this operation.
Hospital set-up costs refer to pre-opening costs for the new Spire Manchester and Spire Nottingham hospitals.
The reversal of the impairment is the result of the reassessment of the lives of medical and other equipment following the relocation of the assets from the previous Spire Manchester Hospital to the new hospital facility and other Group hospitals following its closure.
Hospital closure costs relate to the decommissioning of the assets related to the previous Spire Manchester Hospital.
Corporate restructuring related to an internal Group reorganisation and transaction costs relating to the Asset Swap Transaction as described below.
Except for the corporate restructuring costs, which were capital in nature, and write-off of intangible assets, all other exceptional costs are expected to be tax deductible.
On 31 August 2016, as a result of the development of a new hospital facility in Manchester and the closure of the previous Spire Manchester Hospital previously held under an operating lease, the freehold interest in Spire Wirral Hospital with a net book value of 11.7 million was disposed of, and leased back in a sale and leaseback transaction.
The consideration for the sale was realised in the form of a non-cash asset, being the freehold of the previous Spire Manchester Hospital, which was simultaneously acquired by the Group the Asset Swap Transaction.
The overall loss on these transactions was 7.7 million before sale costs of 1.2 million.
For 2017, 4.0 million 2016: 3.7 million in respect of wages, salaries and social security costs see note 8 is included in write-off and aborted project costs, executive medical leave and death in service, business reorganisations, hospital set-up costs, hospital closure, other and corporate restructuring costs.
1 124 24 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 9.
Exceptional and other items continued million 2017 2016 Other items Compliance set-up costs 0.5 Total other items 0.5 Income tax credit on other items 0.1 Deferred tax reassessment of temporary difference on property 8.4 Total post-tax other items 0.4 8.4 Compliance set-up costs include amounts incurred in 2017 to meet the requirements of General Data Protection Regulations GDPR effective May 2018.
Management expect further material costs to arise in 2018 in advance of the effective date to meet these new regulations and for Spire Healthcare to fulfil its extended obligations under these new regulations.
Auditors remuneration During the year, the Group including its subsidiary undertakings obtained the following services from the Groups external auditor as detailed below: million 2017 2016 Audit of these financial statements 0.4 0.4 Audit of the financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.5 11.
Taxation million 2017 2016 Current tax UK corporation tax expense 4.5 2.1 UK corporation tax adjustment to prior years 0.4 Total current tax 4.5 2.5 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.7 16.3 Effect of change in tax rate 0.5 5.2 Reassessment property temporary differences notes 3 and 9 8.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 2.4 Total deferred tax 1.4 17.1 Total tax expense 5.9 19.6 Corporation tax is calculated at 19.25% 2016: 20.0% of the estimated taxable profit or loss for the year.
The effective tax rate on profit before taxation for the year was 26.0% 2016: 26.8%.
1 125 25 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 11.
Taxation continued The effective tax assessed for the year, all of which arises in the UK, differs from the standard weighted rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The reconciliation of the actual tax charge to that at the domestic corporation tax rate is as follows: million 2017 2016 Profit before taxation 22.7 73.2 Tax at the standard rate 4.4 14.6 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.5 2.7 Adjustments to prior year 0.2 2.0 Reassessment of property temporary differences notes 3 and 9 8.4 Difference in tax rates 0.5 5.2 Increase from impairment of fixed assets 1.3 Disposal of subsidiary company 0.8 Write-off of intangible assets 0.3 Total tax expense 5.9 19.6 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes relate mostly to depreciation on non-qualifying fixed assets, disallowable entertaining and professional fees.
The UK Government has announced a further decrease in the future UK corporation tax rate from 18% to 17% from April 2020.
This change has resulted in a deferred tax credit arising from the reduction in the balance sheet carrying value of deferred tax liabilities to reflect the anticipated rate of tax at which those liabilities are expected to reverse.
During 2016, the Group considered it to be appropriate to reassess the basis for calculating deferred tax on the property portfolio and has now based the assessment on solely held-in-use basis see note 3.
This gave rise to a material tax charge in 2016 which is excluded from tax on underlying profit.
Deferred tax Provisions and other Property, plant Share based temporary and equipment payments Losses differences Total At 1 January 2016 77.8 0.9 23.0 0.3 53.6 Recognised in profit or loss 0.3 0.3 14.3 1.0 13.9 Change in tax rates 5.1 0.1 5.2 Reassessment of property temporary differences note 3 8.4 8.4 Recognised in equity 0.3 0.3 Disposal of subsidiary company 0.2 0.2 At 1 January 2017 81.4 0.3 8.5 1.4 71.2 Recognised in profit or loss 5.5 0.1 7.1 0.2 1.9 Change in tax rates 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2017 75.4 0.2 1.4 1.2 72.6 Disclosed within liabilities 75.4 0.2 1.4 1.2 72.6 Deferred tax on property, plant and equipment has arisen on differences between the carrying value of the relevant assets and the tax base.
The losses relate entirely to non-trade losses.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realised or the liability settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, at the balance sheet date.
The Finance Act 2016, which included a further reduction in the UK corporate tax rate from 18.0% to 17.0% on 1 April 2020, has been enacted and so deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated at this rate unless the temporary difference is expected to reverse sooner than 1 April 2020 in which case the applicable rate of 18.00% to 19.25% has been used.
1 126 26 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 11.
Taxation continued The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets as at 31 December 2017 as follows: million 2017 2016 Trading losses 0.9 0.9 Capital losses 0.1 0.1 Tax basis for future capital disposals 17.9 17.9 18.9 18.9 These amounts are the expected tax value of the gross temporary difference at the enacted long-term tax rate of 17% 2016: 17%.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these amounts due to uncertainties as to the timing of future profits that the trading losses could be offset against and whether capital gains will arise against which the capital losses and tax basis for capital disposals could be utilised.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
2017 2016 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Parent million 16.8 53.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 401,081,391 401,081,391 Adjustment for weighted average number of shares held in EBT 467,034 1,085,956 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue No.
400,614,357 399,995,435 Basic earnings per share in pence per share 4.2 13.4 For dilutive earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to include all dilutive potential ordinary shares arising from share options.
Refer to the Remuneration Committee Report for the terms and conditions of instruments generating potential ordinary shares that affect the measurement of diluted EPS.
There are no instruments that are antidilutive for the periods presented which have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS.
2017 2016 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Parent million 16.8 53.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 400,614,357 399,995,435 Adjustment for weighted average number of contingently issuable shares 861,612 1,576,430 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue No.
401,475,969 401,571,865 Diluted earnings per share in pence per share 4.2 13.3 1 127 27 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 13.
Further details are shown in note 4.
The impairment in 2017 is the result of the closure of the Spire Specialist Cancer Care Centre in Baddow Essex further details as shown in note 9.
As at 31 December 2017, included in the net book value of property, plant and equipment above is 20.3 million 2016: 21.7 million relating to assets held under finance leases on which there was a depreciation charge of 1.2 million in the year 2016: 1.2 million.
The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended 31 December 2017 was 0.7 million 2016: 1.8 million.
The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 3.4% 2016: 3.5% which is calculated on a weighted cost of borrowing.
1 128 28 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 14.
Intangible assets million Goodwill Cost or valuation: At 1 January 2016 520.1 Written-off 1.3 At 31 December 2016 518.8 At 31 December 2017 518.8 Impairment: At 1 January 2016, 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017 1.0 Carrying amount: At 31 December 2017 517.8 At 31 December 2016 517.8 The goodwill arising on acquisitions is reviewed annually for impairment on 31 December or when there is an event that may indicate impairment.
The recoverable amount of the Groups cash-generating unit exceeds its carrying value and no impairment charge has been recognised 2016: nil and no event has given rise to amounts written-off 2016: 1.3m.
The Directors do not believe that any impairment is required in the current financial year.
Impairment testing The Directors treat the business as a single cash-generating unit for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment.
The recoverable amount of goodwill is calculated by reference to its estimated value-in-use.
In order to estimate the value-in-use, management has used trading projections covering the five-year period to December 2022.
Management identified a number of key assumptions relevant to the value-in-use calculations, being revenue growth, which is impacted by an interaction of a number of elements of the operating model, including pricing trends, volume growth and the mix and complexity of discharges, assumptions regarding cost inflation and discount rates.
These variables are interdependent and the forecast cash flows reflect managements expectations based on current market trends.
Revenue growth is projected to be in line with past experience averaging 4.3% for the five-year period 2016: 4.1%.
Cost assumptions are consistent with the Groups historical track record, after taking account of headline inflation at 3.0% 2016: 1.0%.
A long-term growth rate of 2.25% 2016: 2.25% has been applied to cash flows beyond 2022, which is based on historic growth rates achieved by the sector, which have typically exceeded the retail price index RPI.
Pre-tax discount rates were based on the capital asset pricing model, utilising a sector-specific Beta in arriving at the equity premium and cost of debt based on current bank lending rates.
A specific pre-tax discount rate was calculated to reflect the profile of cash flows inherent to the cash-generating unit and this was 9.0% 2016: 9.0%.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed in order to review the impact of changes in key assumptions.
For example, an increase of 3.0% in the pre-tax discount rate to 12.0%, with all other assumptions held constant, did not identify any impairments.
Similarly, zero growth in the period beyond 2022, with all other assumptions held constant or combined with a 1.0% increase in the pre-tax discount rate, did not identify any impairment.
The pre-tax discount rate would need to increase to 12.4%, with all other assumptions held constant, in order to reduce recoverable value equal to the carrying amount.
1 12 29 9 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 15.
Subsidiary undertakings As at 31 December 2017, these Consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the Company and the following companies, most of which are incorporated in, and whose operations are conducted in, the United Kingdom.
All subsidiaries are 100% owned unless otherwise indicated.
Incorporated in England and Wales and registered at 3 Dorset Rise, London EC4Y 8EN, unless otherwise stated Principal activity Class of share Classic Hospitals Group Limited Holding company Ordinary Classic Hospitals Limited Non-trading company Ordinary Classic Hospitals Property Limited Property company Ordinary Didsbury MSK Limited Dormant company Ordinary Fox Healthcare Acquisitions Limited Leasing company Ordinary Fox Healthcare Holdco 2 Limited Holding company Ordinary Lifescan Limited Non-trading company Ordinary # Links Bidco S. r. l. Propco 8 Property company Ordinary Montefiore House Limited Health provision Ordinary SHC Holdings Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Cambridge Disposal Limited Non-trading company Ordinary Spire Fertility Disposal Limited Non-trading company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Holdings Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Finance Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Group UK Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Holdings 1 Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Holdings 2 Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Holdings 3 Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Healthcare Limited Health provision Ordinary Spire Healthcare Properties Limited Hospital leasing Ordinary Spire Healthcare Property Developments Limited Development company Ordinary Spire Property 1 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 4 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 5 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 6 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 13 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 16 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 17 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 18 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 19 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Property 23 Limited Property company Ordinary Spire Thames Valley Hospital BVI Property Holdings Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire Thames Valley Hospital Limited Non-trading company Ordinary Spire Thames Valley Hospital Propco Limited Property company Ordinary Spire UK Holdco 2A Limited Holding company Ordinary Spire UK Holdco 4 Limited Holding company Ordinary Direct shareholding of the Company.
Incorporated in the British Virgin Islands BVI and registered at Harneys Corporate and Trust Services Limited, Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, VG1110, BVI.
# Incorporated in Luxembourg and registered at 2 Boulevard Konrad Adenauer, L-1115 Luxembourg.
On 5 October 2017, Didsbury MSK Limited was incorporated by the Registrar of Companies.
On 21 November 2017, Medicainsure Limited, Spire Links 2 Limited and Spire Property 2 Limited, were struck off by the Registrar of Companies.
13 130 0 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 16.
Inventories million 2017 2016 Prostheses, drugs, medical and other consumables 30.1 28.1 Cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2017 includes inventories recognised as an expense amounting to 179.0 million 2016: 177.3 million.
Trade and other receivables million 2017 2016 Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables net 50.3 58.0 Accrued income 14.4 22.8 Prepayments 29.1 27.2 Other receivables 10.7 11.1 Total current trade and other receivables 104.5 119.1 Trade receivables comprise amounts due from private medical insurers, the NHS, patients, consultants and other third parties who use the Groups facilities.
Invoices to customers fall due within 60 days of the date of issue.
Some of the agreements with NHS customers operate on the basis of monthly payments on account with quarterly reconciliations, which can lead to invoices being paid after their due date.
The ageing of trade receivables is shown below and shows amounts that are past due at the reporting date.
A provision for doubtful receivables has been recognised at the reporting date through consideration of the ageing profile of the Groups receivables and the perceived credit quality of its customers.
The carrying amount of trade receivables is considered to be an approximation to its fair value.
The ageing of trade receivables that are past due but not impaired: million 2017 2016 Not past due and not impaired 38.5 38.3 Past due 030 days, and not impaired 4.6 8.0 Past due 3190 days, and not impaired 3.7 6.7 Past due and more than 91 days, and not impaired 3.5 5.0 Total 50.3 58.0 Trade receivables comprise the following wider customer payor groups: million 2017 2016 Private medical insurers 29.5 34.0 NHS 11.6 10.8 Patient debt 4.3 4.9 Other 4.9 8.3 Total 50.3 58.0 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: million 2017 2016 At 1 January 5.0 5.7 Provided in the year 5.0 4.6 Utilised during the year 6.1 5.3 At 31 December 3.9 5.0 1 13 31 1 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro oup p up pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 18.
Cash and cash equivalents million 2017 2016 Cash at bank 17.0 53.9 Short-term deposits 22.2 14.0 39.2 67.9 19.
Share capital and reserves 0.01 ordinary shares Shares 000 Issued and fully paid At 31 December 2017 401,081,391 4,010 At 31 December 2016 401,081,391 4,010 Capital reserves This reserve represents the loans of 376.1 million due to the former ultimate parent undertaking and management that were forgiven by those counterparties as part of the reorganisation of the Group prior to the IPO in 2014.
EBT share reserves Equiniti Trust Jersey Limited is acting in its capacity as trustee of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
The purpose of the EBT is to further the interests of the Company by benefiting employees and former employees of the Group and certain of their dependants.
The EBT is treated as an extension of the Group and the Company.
During 2017, the EBT purchased no shares 2016: 561,860 shares acquired at an average price per share of 3.18 per share.
Where the EBT purchases the Companys equity share capital the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
As at 31 December 2017, 281,631 shares 2016: 670,559 were held by the EBT in relation to the Directors share bonus award and long-term incentive plan.
At 1 January 2017, the EBT held 670,559 shares.
In March 2017, 228,100 number of shares were exercised in relation to the 2014 Long term incentive plan LTIP and in April 2017, 26,489 number of shares were exercised in relation to the 2014 LTIP.
In December 2017, 134,339 shares were exercised in relation to the 2016 and 2017 LTIP which were awarded as part of the death in service package for Andrew White.
There were no new purchases of shares and at 31 December 2017 the EBT held 281,631 shares.
In April 2016, 801,825 number of shares were exercised in Tranche 1 of the Directors Share Bonus Award and in August 2016, 781,718 shares were exercised for Tranche 2 refer to Note 21.
A purchase of 561,860 shares was made in July 2016 for an average price of 3.18 per share: and at 31 December 2016, the EBT held 670,559 shares.
The EBT share reserve represents the consideration paid when the EBT purchases the Companys equity share capital, until the shares are reissued.
1 132 32 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 20.
Loans and borrowings million 2017 2016 Secured borrowings Bank loans 425.1 424.1 Obligations under finance leases 76.9 76.1 502.0 500.2 The bank loans and finance leases are secured on fixed and floating charges over both the present and future assets of material subsidiaries of the Group.
million 2017 2016 Total borrowings measured at amortised cost Amount due for settlement within 12 months 4.0 4.5 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 498.0 495.7 502.0 500.2 Obligations under finance leases The Group has finance leases in respect of three hospital properties and medical equipment.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases are as follows: 2017 2016 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value million payments of payments payments of payments Within one year 8.7 6.2 8.7 7.0 After one year but not more than five years 36.6 19.2 35.8 21.2 More than five years 220.3 51.5 229.8 47.9 Total minimum lease payments 265.6 76.9 274.3 76.1 Less amounts representing finance charges 188.7 198.2 Present value of minimum lease payments 76.9 76.9 76.1 76.1 Property leases, with a present value liability of 76.6 million 2016: 75.4 million, expire in 2040 and carry an implicit interest rate of 12.9% 2016: 12.9%.
Rent is reviewed annually with reference to RPI, subject to a floor of 3.0% and a cap at 5.0%.
Terms and debt repayment schedule The maturity date is the date on which the relevant bank loans are due to be fully repaid, as at the balance sheet date.
The carrying amounts drawn after issue costs and including interest accrued under facilities in place at the balance sheet date were as follows: million Maturity Margin over LIBOR 2017 2016 Senior finance facility July 2019 2.00% 425.1 424.1 Revolving credit facility undrawn committed facility July 2019 100.0 100.0 On 23 July 2014, the Group was refinanced, and it entered into a bank loan facility with a syndicate of banks, comprising a five-year, 425.0 million term loan and a five-year 100.0 million revolving facility.
The loan is non-amortising and carries interest at a margin of 2.00% over LIBOR 2016: 2.00% over LIBOR.
1 133 33 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro oup p up pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 20.
Loans and borrowings continued Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities million Non cash 1 January Cash flows changes 31 December 2017 Bank loans 424.1 10.0 11.0 425.1 Lease liabilities 76.1 9.2 10.0 76.9 Total 500.2 19.2 21.0 502.0 Reconciliation of net change in cash and cash equivalents to net debt million 2017 2016 Bank loans 424.1 423.1 Obligations under finance leases 76.1 75.3 500.2 498.4 Cash at bank 53.9 42.8 Short-term investments 14.0 36.1 Net debt at 1 January 432.3 419.5 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 28.7 11.0 Loans movement 1.0 1.0 Movement in obligations under finance leases 0.8 0.8 30.5 12.8 Net debt at 31 December 462.8 432.3 21.
Share based payments The Group operates a number of share based payment schemes for Executive Directors and other employees, all of which are equity settled.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle any of the options in cash.
The total cost recognised in the income statement was 1.0 million in the year ended 31 December 2017 2016: 0.4 million.
Employers National Insurance is being accrued, where applicable, at the rate of 14.3%, which management expects to be the prevailing rate at the time the options are exercised, based on the share price at the reporting date.
The total National Insurance charge for the year was 0.1 million 2016: 0.2 million.
The following table analyses the total cost between each of the relevant schemes, together with the number of options outstanding: 2017 2016 Number of Number of options options million Charge m thousands Charge m thousands Long Term Incentive Plan 1.0 1,946 0.4 950 Deferred Bonus Plan 29 1.0 1,975 0.4 950 13 134 4 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 21.
Share based payments continued A summary of the main features of the scheme is shown below: Long Term Incentive Plan The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is open to Executive Directors and designated senior managers, and awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Awards are subject to market and non-market performance criteria.
Awards granted under the LTIP vest subject to achievement of performance conditions measured over a period of at least three years, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Awards may be in the form of conditional share awards or nil-cost options or any other form allowed by the Plan rules.
Vesting of awards will be dependent on a range of financial, operational or share price measures, as set by the Committee, which are aligned with the long-term strategic objectives of the Group and shareholder value creation.
Not less than 30% of an award will be based on share price measures.
The remainder will be based on either financial and or operational measures.
At the threshold performance, no more than 25% of the award will vest, rising to 100% for maximum performance.
For awards granted in 2017, vesting will be based on EPS 35%, relative TSR 35% and Operational Excellence 30% targets.
The details of measures, targets and weightings may be varied by the Committee prior to grant based on the Groups strategic objectives.
Deferred bonus plan The Deferred Bonus Plan is a discretionary executive share bonus plan under which the Remuneration Committee determines that a proportion of a participants annual bonus will be deferred.
The market value of the shares granted to any employee will be equal to one-third of the total annual bonus that would otherwise have been payable to the individual.
The awards will be granted on the day after the announcement of the Groups annual results.
The awards will normally vest over a three-year period.
The aggregate number of share awards outstanding for the Group and their weighted average exercise price is shown below: 2017 LTIP LTIP LTIP Deferred TSR condition EPS condition OE condition Bonus Plan thousands thousands thousands thousands At 1 January 992 992 29 Granted 383 383 328 Exercised 189 189 11 Surrendered 323 323 96 Cancelled At 31 December 863 863 221 29 Exercisable at 31 December 32 Weighted average contractual life 1.2 years 1.2 years 2.3 years 0.4 years 2016 Directors Share LTIP LTIP Deferred Bonus Award TSR condition EPS condition Bonus Plan thousands thousands thousands thousands At 1 January 1,638 1,003 1,003 29 Granted 475 475 Exercised 1,584 Surrendered 486 486 Cancelled 54 At 31 December 992 992 29 Exercisable at 31 December 286 286 Weighted average contractual life 1.9 years 1.9 years 1.4 years The Directors Share Bonus Award was divided into two equal tranches, the first of which vested on 23 July 2015 and the second tranche vested on 23 July 2016.
The number of options that vested depended on conditions relating to share price on the relevant dates.
The second tranche, which vested on 23 July 2016, resulted in 781,718 options 23 July 2015: 801,824 options being issued.
All qualifying options relating to the Directors Share Bonus Award were exercised during 2016.
For further details, see the Directors Remuneration Report, on pages 78 to 95.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2017 was 1.3 years 2016: 1.9 years.
1 13 35 5 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 21.
Share based payments continued Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date: Share options Exercise thousands price Grant vest Expiry date 2017 2016 LTIP grants 30 09 2014 31 12 2016 30 09 2024 32 572 01 04 2015 March 2018 01 04 2025 547 547 30 03 2016 March 2019 30 03 2026 631 865 30 03 2017 March 2020 30 03 2027 737 Deferred Bonus Plan 01 06 2015 01 06 2018 01 06 2025 29 29 The following information is relevant to the determination of the fair value of the awards granted for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, respectively, under the schemes: LTIP LTIP LTIP Deferred 2017 TSR condition EPS condition OE condition Bonus Plan Option pricing model Monte Carlo Fair value Fair value n a at grant date at grant date Fair value at grant date 1.47 3.26 3.26 n a Weighted average share price at grant date 3.26 3.26 3.26 n a Exercise price Nil Nil Nil n a Weighted average contractual life 3.0 years 3.0 years 3.0 years n a Expected dividend yield n a n a n a n a Risk-free interest rate 0.2% n a n a n a Volatility 34% n a n a n a LTIP LTIP Deferred 2016 TSR condition EPS condition Bonus Plan Option pricing model Monte Carlo Fair value n a at grant date Fair value at grant date 2.32 3.60 n a Weighted average share price at grant date 3.60 3.60 n a Exercise price Nil Nil n a Weighted average contractual life 3.0 years 3.0 years n a Expected dividend yield n a n a n a Risk-free interest rate 0.6% n a n a Volatility 37% n a n a The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the Company and a comparator group of other international healthcare companies.
13 136 6 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 22.
Provisions Business Medical restructuring million malpractice and other Total At 1 January 2017 14.3 2.4 16.7 Increase in existing provisions 35.2 0.7 35.9 Provisions utilised 31.0 1.6 32.6 Provisions released 1.7 0.4 2.1 At 31 December 2017 16.8 1.1 17.9 Medical malpractice relates to commitments to patients in respect of the removal or replacement of the PIP brand of breast implants, and estimated liabilities arising from claims for damages in respect of services previously supplied to patients.
Amounts are shown gross of insured liabilities.
Any such insurance recoveries are recognised in other receivables.
Following the completion of the criminal proceedings against Ian Paterson, a consultant who previously had practicing privileges at Spire Healthcare, management agreed settlement with all current and known civil claimants and the other co-defendants and have made a provision for the expected remaining costs see note 9.
The provision in relation to Ian Paterson costs have been determined before account is taken of any potential further recoveries from insurers.
Business restructuring and other includes staff restructuring costs and closure costs relating to the Specialist Cancer Care Centre in Baddow Essex.
The provisions are shown gross of any expected reimbursement from insurers of the related risks.
The reimbursement is recognised as a separate receivable when receipt of it is judged sufficiently probable.
The amount included in other receivables in that respect was 7.5 million 2016: 6.7 million.
Provisions as at 31 December 2017 are materially considered to be current and expected to be utilised at any time within three years.
Trade and other payables million 2017 2016 Trade payables 49.0 49.7 Accrued expenses 36.5 38.3 Social security and other taxes 6.0 3.5 Other payables 10.0 8.8 101.5 100.3 24.
Dividends million 2017 2016 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 2.4 pence per share 2016: 2.4 pence 10.0 9.6 interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 1.3 pence per share 2016: 1.3 pence 5.2 5.2 Total 15.2 14.8 A final dividend of 2.5 pence per share amounting to a total final dividend of approximately 10.0 million, is to be proposed at the Companys annual general meeting on 24 May 2018.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, dividend declared after the balance sheet date is not recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
1 137 37 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 25.
Commitments Operating leases The Group had future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, based on rents prevailing at the year end, as set out below: 2017 2016 Land and Land and million buildings Other buildings Other Not later than one year 65.4 1.1 63.1 1.1 Later than one year and not later than five years 259.1 2.2 249.7 2.2 Later than five years 1,263.1 1,282.9 1,587.6 3.3 1,595.7 3.3 The Group has a number of long-term institutional lease arrangements.
These include leases over 12 properties with a term up to December 2042, subject to renewal or extension over each of the 12 properties.
The leases include key terms such as annual rental covenants and minimum levels of capital expenditure invested by the Group.
Rent is indexed annually in line with RPI, upwards only and subject to a cap of 5.0%.
The capital expenditure covenants measured on an average basis over each five-year period during the term of the leases, require the Group to incur, in total, 5.0 million of maintenance capital expenditure and 3.0 million of additional capital expenditure each year, such being subject to indexation in line with RPI.
Other operating leases are in respect of vehicles and medical transportation.
Consignment stock At 31 December 2017, the Group held consignment stock on sale or return of 23.0 million 2016: 22.1 million.
Capital commitments Capital commitments comprise amounts payable under capital contracts which are duly authorised and in progress at the balance sheet date.
They include the full cost of goods and services to be provided under the contracts through to completion.
The Group has rights within its contracts to terminate at short notice and, therefore, cancellation payments are minimal.
Capital commitments at the end of the year were as follows: million 2017 2016 Contracted but not provided for 65.5 63.8 26.
Contingent liabilities The Group had the following guarantees at 31 December 2017: the bankers to Spire Healthcare Limited have issued a letter of credit in the maximum amount of 1.5 million 2016: 1.5 million in relation to contractual pension obligations and statutory insurance cover in respect of the Groups potential liability to claims made by employees under the Employers Liability Compulsory Insurance Act 1969: under certain lease agreements entered into on 26 January 2010, the Group has given undertakings relating to obligations in the lease documentation and the assets of the Group are subject to a fixed and floating charge: and see note 22 for details of a contingent liability in respect of Medical Malpractice.
13 138 8 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 27.
Financial risk management and impairment of financial assets The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk: liquidity risk: and market risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these financial statements.
The Directors have overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Credit risk and impairment Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investment securities.
Trade and other receivables The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The Groups exposure to credit risk from trade receivables is considered to be low because of the nature of its customers and policies in place to prevent credit risk occurring.
Most revenues arise from insured patients business and the NHS.
Insured revenues give rise to trade receivables which are mainly due from large insurance institutions, which have high credit worthiness.
The remainder of revenues arise from individual Self-pay patients and consultants.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables.
This allowance is composed of specific losses that relate to individual exposures and also a collective loss component established in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified, determined based on historical data of payment statistics.
Note 17 shows the ageing and customer profiles of trade receivables outstanding at the year end.
Investments The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only investing in short-term money market deposits with large financial institutions, which must be rated at least Investment Grade by key rating agencies.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
1 139 39 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 27.
Financial risk management and impairment of financial assets continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk arising from fluctuations in market rates.
This affects future cash flows from money market investments and the cost of floating rate borrowings.
From time-to-time, the Group considers the cost benefit of entering into derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate volatility based on existing variable rates, current and predicted interest yield curves and the cost of associated medium-term derivative financial instruments.
Interest rates on variable rate loans are determined by LIBOR fixings on a quarterly basis.
Interest is settled on all loans in line with agreements and is settled at least annually.
Variable Total Undrawn facility 31 December 2017 million 425.0 425.0 100.0 Effective interest rate % 2.42% 2.42% 31 December 2016 million 425.0 425.0 100.0 Effective interest rate % 2.40% 2.40% Sensitivity analysis A change of 25 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased decreased equity and reported results by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Profit or loss Equity million 25bp increase 25bp decrease 25bp increase 25bp decrease At 31 December 2017 Variable rate instruments 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2016 Variable rate instruments 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
Liquidity is managed across the Group and consideration is taken of the segregation of accounts for regulatory purposes.
Short-term operational working capital requirements are met by cash in hand and overdraft facilities.
Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses for a period of at least 90 days, including the servicing of financial obligations.
In addition to cash on demand, the Group has available the following lines of credit: 100.0 million of revolving credit facility, which was fully undrawn as at 31 December 2017 2016: 100.0 million undrawn.
14 140 0 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 27.
Financial risk management and impairment of financial assets continued The following are contractual maturities, at as the balance sheet date, of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements: Maturity analysis 2017 Carrying Contractual Within Between 1 More than million amount cash flows 1 year and 2 years 2 years Trade and other payables 59.0 59.0 59.0 Bank borrowings 425.1 445.8 11.5 434.3 Finance lease liabilities present value 76.9 265.6 8.7 8.7 248.2 561.0 770.4 79.2 443.0 248.2 Maturity analysis 2016 Carrying Contractual Within Between 1 More than million amount cash flows 1 year and 2 years 2 years Trade and other payables 55.9 55.9 55.9 Bank borrowings 424.1 456.0 10.9 11.3 433.8 Finance lease liabilities present value 76.1 270.4 8.5 8.5 253.4 556.1 782.3 75.3 19.8 687.2 Bases of valuation The management assessed that cash and short-term deposits, trade receivables, trade payables and other current liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
The carrying value of the other financial instruments, being finance leases and debt, is approximately equal to their fair value based on review of current terms against market and expected short-term settlements, except for floating rate debt, which is after the deduction of 1.8 million 2016: 2.9 million of issue costs.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group did not hold any financial instruments measured at fair value 2016: nil.
Capital management The Groups objective is to maintain an appropriate balance of debt and equity financing to enable the Group to continue as a going concern, to continue the future development of the business and to optimise returns to shareholders and benefits to other stakeholders.
The Board closely manages trading capital, defined as net assets plus net debt.
The Groups net assets at 31 December 2017 were 1,037.9 million 2016: 1,035.3 million and net debt, calculated as total debt comprising obligations under finance leases and borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents, amounted to 462.8 million 2016: 432.3 million.
The principal focus of capital management revolves around working capital management and compliance with externally imposed financial covenants.
Throughout the period and up to the date of approval of these financial statements, the Group complied with all covenants required by our lending group.
Major investment decisions are based on reviewing the expected future cash flows and all major capital expenditure requires approval by the Board.
At the balance sheet date, the Groups committed undrawn facilities, and cash and cash equivalents were as follows: million 2017 2016 Committed undrawn revolving credit facility 100.0 100.0 Cash and cash equivalents 39.2 67.9 1 141 41 S Spi pirr e H e He ea al lt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro ou up p p pl lc Ann c Annua ual Re l Repo por rtt 2 2017 017 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2017 Continued 28.
Related party transactions Key management personnel Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
They include the Board and Executive Committee, as identified on pages 56 to 59.
Compensation for key management personnel is set out in the table below: Key management compensation million 2017 2016 Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 3.5 3.2 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4 Share based payments 0.9 0.3 4.8 3.9 Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 95.
There were no transactions with related parties external to the Group in the year to 31 December 2017 2016: nil.
Events after the reporting period 2017 final dividend For 2017, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 2.5 pence per share, amounting to approximately 10.0 million, to be paid on 26 June 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 June 2018.
1 142 42 Spire Healthcare Group p lc Annual Report 2017
