Forward looking statements Important information: forward-looking statements These materials contain certain forward-looking statements relating to the business of Spire Healthcare Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively, the Group, including with respect to the progress, timing and completion of the Groups development, the Groups ability to treat, attract, and retain patients and customers, its ability to engage consultants and GPs and to operate its business and increase referrals, the integration of prior acquisitions, the Groups estimates for future performance and its estimates regarding anticipated operating results, future revenue, capital requirements, shareholder structure and financing.
In addition, even if the Groups actual results or development are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation, those results or developments may not be indicative of the Groups results or developments in the future.
In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as could, should, may, expects, aims, targets, anticipates, believes, intends, estimates, or similar words.
These forward-looking statements are based largely on the Groups current expectations as of the date of this presentation and are subject to a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievement expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
In particular, the Groups expectations could be affected by, among other things, uncertainties involved in the integration of acquisitions or new developments, changes in legislation or the regulatory regime governing healthcare in the UK, poor performance by consultants who practice at our facilities, unexpected regulatory actions or suspensions, competition in general, the impact of global economic changes, and the Groups ability to obtain or maintain accreditation or approval for its facilities or service lines.
In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements made during this presentation will in fact be realised and no representation or warranty is given as to the completeness or accuracy of the forward-looking statements contained in these materials.
The Group is providing the information in these materials as of this date, and we disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
156 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Designed and produced by Copy writing: Chris North Consulting Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
This document is printed on Satimat Green, a paper containing 75% post consumer recycled fibre and 25% virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certified forests and Oxygen, a paper containing 100% fide-inked pulp recycled fibre approved by the Forest Stewardship Council.
Spire Healthcare Group plc 3 Dorset Rise London EC4Y 8EN spirehealthcare.
