206 207 Principal properties unaudited List of definitions unaudited Continued Average topped-up rent EPRA cost ratio excluding direct vacancy costs Offices O, Retail restaurant R, Annualised rents generated by the portfolio plus rent contracted Calculated as above, but with an adjustment to exclude Value Residential Re, Approximate from expiry of rent free periods and uplifts agreed at the balance direct vacancy costs.
banding Industrial I, Freehold F, net area sheet date.
m Leisure L Leasehold L sq ft EPRA net initial yield NIY West End: Borders 10% Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing Capital return Islington Camden 10% at the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property The annual valuation movement arising on the Groups portfolio Angel Building, 407 St. John Street EC1 200 O R F 261,900 operating expenses, divided by the market value of the EPRA expressed as a percentage return on the valuation at the beginning Angel Square EC1 100-200 O F 126,200 property portfolio, increased by estimated purchasers costs.
of the year adjusted for acquisitions and capital expenditure.
4 & 10 Pentonville Road N1 50-100 O F 53,400 4 Porters North, 8-14 Crinan Street N1 0-25 O F 44,100 EPRA topped-up net initial yield Diluted figures 401 St. John Street EC1 0-25 O F 12,300 This measure incorporates an adjustment to the EPRA NIY Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potential in respect of the expiration of rent free periods or other dilutive shares issuable under the Groups share option schemes City: Borders 38% unexpired lease incentives such as discounted rent periods and the convertible bonds.
20 Farringdon Road EC1 100-200 O R L L 166,300 Earnings earnings per share EPS 88 Rosebery Avenue EC1 50-100 O F 103,700 EPRA vacancy rate Earnings represent the profit or loss for the year attributable to Estimated rental value ERV of immediately available space Morelands, 5-27 Old Street EC1 50-100 O R L 89,500 equity shareholders and are divided by the weighted average divided by the ERV of the EPRA portfolio.
The Buckley Building, 49 Clerkenwell Green EC1 50-100 O R F 85,100 number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year to arrive at earnings per share.
Turnmill, 63 Clerkenwell Road EC1 50-100 O R F 70,300 In addition, the Group has adopted the following recommendation 19 Charterhouse Street EC1 50-100 O F 63,700 for investment property reporting.
Estimated rental value ERV 5-8 Hardwick Street and 161 Rosebery Avenue EC1 25-50 O F 35,000 This is the external valuers opinion as to the open market rent 151 Rosebery Avenue EC1 0-25 O F 24,000 EPRA like-for-like rental income growth which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected 3-4 Hardwick Street EC1 0-25 O F 12,000 The growth in rental income on properties owned throughout to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
the current and previous year under review.
This growth rate Old Street 11% includes revenue recognition and lease accounting adjustments European Public Real Estate Association EPRA White Collar Factory, Old Street Yard EC1 200 O R Re F 293,300 but excludes properties held for development in either year and A not-for-profit association with a membership of Europes leading 1 Olivers Yard EC1 100-200 O R F 185,100 properties acquired or disposed of in either year.
property companies, investors and consultants which strives to Monmouth House, 58-64 City Road EC1 0-25 O F 41,500 establish best practices in accounting, reporting and corporate 19-23 Featherstone Street EC1 0-25 O F 27,500 Fair value adjustment governance and to provide high-quality information to investors.
An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset EPRA published its latest Best Practices Recommendations in Shoreditch Whitechapel 9% or liability to its market value.
This includes guidelines for the calculation of the Tea Building, 56 Shoreditch High Street E1 200 O R L F 269,600 following performance measures which the Group has adopted.
Ground rent The White Chapel Building E1 100-200 O F 272,900 4 The rent payable by the Group for its leasehold properties.
EPRA earnings per share 9 and 16 Prescot Street E1 25-50 O R F 106,900 Under IFRS, these leases are treated as finance leases and the Earnings from operational activities cost allocated between interest payable and property outgoings.
Holborn 6% EPRA net asset value per share Johnson Building, 77 Hatton Garden EC1 100-200 O R F 156,800 Headroom NAV adjusted to include trading properties and other 40 Chancery Lane WC2 100-200 O R L 103,700 This is the amount left to draw under the Groups loan facilities investment interests at fair value and to exclude certain 6-7 St. Cross Street EC1 25-50 O F 33,800 i. e. the total loan facilities less amounts already drawn.
items not expected to crystallise in a long-term investment property business model.
Provincial 2% Interest rate swap Scotland 2% A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange EPRA triple net asset value per share Strathkelvin Retail Park, Bishopbriggs, Glasgow 50-100 R L F 325,500 an interest rate obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
EPRA NAV adjusted to include the fair values of i financial Land, Bishopbriggs, Glasgow 25-50 F 5,200 acres These are generally used by the Group to convert floating rate instruments, ii debt and iii deferred taxes on revaluations, debt to fixed rates.
Includes North of Oxford Street.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs EPRA cost ratio including direct vacancy costs 3 Includes 36-38 and 42-44 Hanway Street W1.
Activities and behaviours, aligned to both business objectives EPRA costs as a percentage of gross rental income less ground 4 Joint venture, Derwent London has a 50% interest.
and individual goals, against which the performance of the rent including share of joint venture gross rental income less Percentages weighted by valuation.
Performance measured against ground rent.
EPRA costs include administrative expenses, other them is referenced in the Annual Report.
property costs, net service charge costs and the share of joint Tech Belt 46% ventures overheads and operating expenses net of any service charge costs, adjusted for service charge costs recovered through rents and management fees.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 208 209 List of definitions unaudited Continued Lease incentives REITs must distribute at least 90% of the Groups income profits Yields Global 100 Index Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically from its tax exempt property rental business, by way of dividend, Net initial yield The Global 100 Index is a ranking of the world's most sustainable the incentive will be an initial rent free or half rent period, stepped known as a property income distribution.
These distributions can Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing corporations.
The list is compiled by Toronto-based media and rents, or a cash contribution to fit-out or similar costs.
be subject to withholding tax at 20%.
at the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property investment advisory firm Corporate Knights.
Each year, the latest operating expenses, divided by the market value of the iteration of the index is announced at the World Economic Forum Loan-to-value ratio LTV If the Group distributes profits from the non-tax exempt business, property, increased by estimated purchasers' costs.
Drawn debt net of cash divided by the fair value of the property the distribution will be taxed as an ordinary dividend in the hands Reversionary yield portfolio.
Drawn debt is equal to drawn facilities less cash and of the investors.
The anticipated yield to which the net initial yield will rise, Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED the unamortised equity element of the convertible bonds.
once the rent reaches the estimated rental values.
LEED is a US-based environmental impact assessment method Rent reviews True equivalent yield for buildings.
Performance is measured across a series of ratings Mark-to-market Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in the lease typically The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash Certified, Silver, Gold and Platinum.
The difference between the book value of an asset or liability every five years and their purpose is usually to adjust the rent to flows from the portfolio, including current rent, reversions to and its market value.
the current market level at the review date.
For upwards only rent valuers estimated rental value and such items as voids and Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences reviews, the rent will either remain at the same level or increase if expenditures, equates to the valuation having taken into Regulations RIDDORs MSCI Inc. MSCI IPD market rents are higher at the review date.
Rent is assumed to be The regulations place a legal duty on employers to report workMSCI Inc. is a company that produces independent benchmarks received quarterly in advance.
related deaths, major injuries or over-three-day injuries, work of property returns.
The Group measures its performance Reversion Yield shift related diseases and dangerous occurrences near miss accidents against both the Central London Offices Index including Inner The reversion is the amount by which ERV is higher than the A movement in the yield of a property asset, or like-for-like to the Health and Safety Executive.
London and the UK All Property Index.
rent roll of a property or portfolio.
The reversion is derived from portfolio, over a given year.
Yield compression is a commonlycontractual rental increases, rent reviews, lease renewals and the used term for a reduction in yields.
SKA NAV gearing letting of space that is vacant and available to occupy or under SKA is a sustainability rating method developed specifically for Net debt divided by net assets.
Sustainability and corporate responsibility fit-out projects.
It sets out a range of good practice criteria and Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment measures.
Performance is measured across a series of ratings Net assets per share or net asset value NAV Scrip dividend Method BREEAM Bronze, Silver and Gold.
Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary Derwent London plc sometimes offers its shareholders the An environmental impact assessment method for commercial shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
opportunity to receive dividends in the form of shares instead buildings.
Performance is measured across a series of ratings: Transmission and distribution T&D of cash.
This is known as a scrip dividend.
Pass, Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding.
The emissions associated with the transmission and distribution Net debt losses in the grid from the transportation of electricity from its Borrowings plus bank overdraft less cash and cash equivalents.
Total property return TPR Carbon emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 generation source.
Total property return is a performance measure calculated by Scope 1 direct emissions: Net interest cover ratio MSCI IPD and defined in the MSCI Global Methodology Standards Scope 2 indirect emissions: and Well to tank WTT Net property income, excluding all non-core items divided by for Real Estate Investment as the percentage value change plus Scope 3 other indirect emissions.
The emissions associated with extracting, refining and interest payable on borrowings and non-utilisation fees.
net income accrual, relative to the capital employed.
transporting raw fuel to the vehicle, asset or process under CDP scrutiny.
Property income distribution PID Total return The CDP is an organisation which works with shareholders and Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property rental The movement in EPRA adjusted net asset value per share on a listed companies to facilitate the disclosure and reporting of business under the REIT regulations.
diluted basis between the beginning and the end of each financial climate change data and information.
year plus the dividend per share paid during the year expressed as Non-PID a percentage of the EPRA net asset value per share on a diluted Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
basis at the beginning of the year.
The government department responsible for environmental protection, food production and standards, agriculture, fisheries Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Total shareholder return TSR and rural communities in the United Kingdom.
The UK Real Estate Investment Trust REIT regime was launched The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London on 1 January 2007.
On 1 July 2007, Derwent London plc elected Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the year, Energy Performance Certificate EPC to convert to REIT status.
expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning An EPC is an asset rating detailing how energy efficient a building of the year.
is, rated by carbon dioxide emission on a scale of A to G, where The REIT legislation was introduced to provide a structure which an A rating is the most energy efficient.
They are legally required closely mirrors the tax outcomes of direct ownership in property Underlying portfolio for any building that is to be put on the market for sale or rent.
and removes tax inequalities between different real estate Properties that have been held for the whole of the year i. e. investors.
It provides a liquid and publicly available vehicle excluding any acquisitions or disposals made during the year.
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB which opens the property market to a wide range of investors.
The Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark is an initiative set Underlying valuation increase up to assess the environmental and social performance of public A REIT is exempt from corporation tax on qualifying income and The valuation increase on the underlying portfolio.
and private real estate investments and allow investors to gains of its property rental business providing various conditions understand their performance.
It remains subject to corporation tax on non-exempt income and gains e. g. interest income, trading activity and development fees.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
