com Stock Code: PLP OUR GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for The Directors are responsible for DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY preparing the Annual Report and the keeping adequate accounting records STATEMENT Groups consolidated financial statements that are sufficient to show and explain We confirm that to the best of our in accordance with applicable law and the Groups transactions and disclose knowledge: regulations.
with reasonable accuracy at any time the Groups consolidated financial the financial position of the Group and UK company law requires the Directors statements, prepared in accordance enable them to ensure that the Groups to prepare financial statements for with IFRSs as adopted by the consolidated financial statements comply each financial year.
Under that law the European Union, give a true and with the Companies Act 2006 and Article Directors are required to prepare the fair view of the assets, liabilities, 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Groups consolidated financial statements financial position and profit or loss of responsible for safeguarding the assets in accordance with International Financial the Company and the undertakings of the Group and hence for taking Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted included in the consolidation taken as reasonable steps for the prevention by the European Union.
a whole: and detection of fraud and other the Strategic Report and the irregularities.
Under company law the Directors Directors Report include a fair review must not approve the Groups financial The Directors are also responsible for of the development and performance statements unless they are satisfied that preparing the Directors Report, the of the business and the position of they give a true and fair view of the state Strategic Report, the Remuneration the Company and the undertakings of affairs of the Group and of the profit Report and the Corporate Governance included in the consolidation taken as or loss of the Group for that period.
Statement in accordance with the a whole, together with a description In preparing the Groups consolidated Companies Act 2006 and applicable of the principal risks and uncertainties financial statements, the Directors are regulations, including the requirements that they face: and required to: of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure the Annual Report and financial Guidance and Transparency Rules.
{ present fairly the financial position, statements, taken as a whole, is fair, financial performance and cash flows The Directors are responsible for the balanced and understandable and of the Group: maintenance and integrity of the provides the information necessary { select suitable accounting policies in corporate and financial information for shareholders to assess the Groups accordance with IAS 8, Accounting included on the Companys website.
position and performance, business Policies, Changes in Accounting Legislation in the UK governing the model and strategy.
Estimates and Errors, and then apply preparation and dissemination of By order of the Board.
them consistently: financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Martin Payne { present information, including Chief Executive Officer accounting policies, in a manner 20 March 2018 that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Paul James information: Chief Financial Officer { make judgements that are 20 March 2018 reasonable: { provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and { state whether the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
77 77 OUR SOLUTIONS INTELLIGENT ENGINEERED SOLUTIONS APPLICATION BASED TECHNICAL SUPPORT As early adopters in 2013, Nuaire were the connection points to facilitate integration with first ventilation manufacturer to provide a free ducting systems and ancillaries from third parties.
level-1 BIM library of Revit files for the ventilation Now, across the Polypipe Group, the adoption equipment offered.
of BIM and Revit are at the forefront for offering Nuaire designs its BIM models as type catalogues additional services to customers.
Project-specific allowing the parametric selection of units performance criteria and support for design, and components from a single Revit file.
The project management and building operations can models also contain information such as links to be incorporated, which result in improved design installation and maintenance guides, company efficiency and help to position the Group as websites, electrical data, acoustic data and future ready.
