STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The Directors are also responsible for preparing the strategic and the financial statements in accordance with applicable report, the Directors report, the Directors remuneration laws and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to report, the corporate governance statement and the report of prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under the Audit Committee in accordance with the Companies Act that law they have elected to prepare the financial statements 2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Transparency Rules.
The Directors have delegated Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must responsibility to the Portfolio Manager for the maintenance not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied and integrity of the Companys corporate and financial that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the information included on Woodford Investment Management Company as at the end of each financial year and of the profit Limiteds website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing or loss of the Company for that period.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: present fairly the financial position, financial performance Each of the Directors, whose names are listed on pages 40 to and cash flows of the Company: 42, confirms that: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with United the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and then accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, apply them consistently: liabilities, financial position and loss of the Company: and present information, including accounting policies, in a the strategic report contained in the annual report and financial manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and statements includes a fair review of the development and understandable information: performance of the business and the position of the Company, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties prudent: that it faces.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed The AIC Code of Corporate Governance requires Directors to and explained in the financial statements: and ensure that the annual report and financial statements are fair, prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a conclusion on unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will this matter, the Board has requested that the Audit Committee continue in business.
advises on whether it considers that the annual report and financial statements fulfil these requirements.
The process by The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting which the Audit Committee has reached these conclusions is set records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys out in its report on pages 59 to 61.
As a result, the Board has transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time concluded that the annual report and financial statements for the the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure year ended 31 December 2017, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act and understandable and provides the information necessary for 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the business model and strategy.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors by: Susan Searle Chairman 23 April 2018 66 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
