com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 1.
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2018 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Martin Payne and Paul James.
Polypipe Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture of plastic pipe systems for the building and construction market.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated historical financial information for the year ended 31 December 2017 are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied in all material respects to all the periods presented.
As explained in Note 18, certain operations have been classified as discontinued during the year and consequently the comparative financial information has been restated where appropriate to meet the presentational requirements of IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held-for-Sale and Discontinued Operations, to take account of this change.
2.1 Basis of preparation and statement of compliance with IFRSs The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as endorsed by the European Union regulations as they apply to the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 and also in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to one decimal place of a million m unless otherwise indicated.
2.2 Going concern The Directors, having considered all relevant risk factors, believe the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
2.3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2017.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: { power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : { exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and { the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All inter-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
The Group holds 100% of the equity and controls 100% of the voting rights in all subsidiaries, with the exception of Water Management Solutions LLC which has not traded since incorporation in Qatar in 2015.
Accordingly, the treatment of noncontrolling interests or any other non-voting right factors in respect of control is not material.
91 91 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.4 Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is the total of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition fair value.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administration expenses in the income statement.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
2.5 Goodwill Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses see Note 2.12.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the profit or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
2.6 Foreign currency translation The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is also the parent companys functional currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured in that functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recognised by the Group entities at their respective functional currency rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency spot rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
All differences arising on settlement or translation are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates prevailing.
The resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
2.7 Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding discounts, rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been passed to the buyer when the goods are delivered.
The amount is recognised net of any discounts or rebates payable, which are accrued at the point at which the goods are delivered.
As explained in Note 3.2, rebates can be complex in nature and involve estimation.
Interest income Interest income is recognised as interest accrues on cash balances using the effective interest method.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to its net carrying amount.
2.8 Income taxes Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior years are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the tax authorities based on income tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, with the following exceptions: { where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: { in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and { deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
For deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries it must additionally be probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same tax authority and that authority permits the Group to make a single net payment.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the income tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on income tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are charged or credited to other comprehensive income.
Similarly, income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are charged or credited directly to equity.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the income statement.
2.9 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on the cost less residual value of property, plant and equipment, and is on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold land Nil Freehold buildings Over expected economic life not exceeding 50 years Plant and other equipment 4 to 10 years The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods are reviewed at each financial year end and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or where no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any profit or loss arising on the derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement when the asset is derecognised.
93 93 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.10 Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are initially measured at cost.
Intangible assets arising on business combinations are initially measured at fair value.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost or fair value less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and expenditure is reflected in the income statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic life and are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
Amortisation of intangible assets is provided over the following expected useful lives: Patents and brand names ten years Customer relationships five years Customer order book up to one year Research and development costs Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditures on individual projects are recognised as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate: { the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale: { its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset: { how the asset will generate future economic benefits: { the availability of resources to complete the asset: and { the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
At the balance sheet date no development costs have met the above criteria.
2.11 Assets classified as held-for-sale Assets classified as held-for-sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value, less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held-for-sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification and accordingly included within current assets with the associated liabilities being included within current liabilities, and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
2.12 Impairment of non-financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there are any indicators that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and it is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future pre-tax cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair value less costs to sell, recent market transactions are taken into account.
If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples or other available fair value indicators.
The Group bases its impairment calculations on detailed budgets and industry forecast calculations which are prepared separately for each of the Groups CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated.
These budgets and industry forecast calculations are generally covering a period of four years.
For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Goodwill Goodwill has specific characteristics for impairment and is tested annually at 31 December or when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU to which the goodwill relates.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related CGUs.
Each CGU or group of CGUs to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is not larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses related to goodwill are not reversed in future periods.
2.13 Leasing The classification of leases as finance or operating leases requires the Group to determine, based on an evaluation of the terms and conditions, whether it retains or acquires the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these assets and accordingly whether the lease requires an asset and liability to be recognised on the balance sheet.
Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases and rentals payable are charged in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
2.14 Financial instruments i Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale financial assets or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs, except in the case of financial assets recognised at FVTPL.
The Groups financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables.
Subsequent measurement The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification.
The Group does not hold any held-tomaturity investments or available-for-sale financial assets.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at FVTPL include financial assets held for trading.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
This category includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by IAS 39.
Financial assets at FVTPL are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in finance revenues or finance costs in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After initial measurement, such assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
The effective interest rate amortisation is included in finance revenues in the income statement.
The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the income statement in finance costs.
Loans and receivables also include cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
95 95 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Derecognition A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised when: { the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired.
{ the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: and either a the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Impairment The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Trade receivables, which generally have 30 day terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
ii Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as financial liabilities at FVTPL, loans and borrowings, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The Group has trade and other payables, loans classified as loans and borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, except in the case of loans and borrowings which are recognised at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Profits or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Profits and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised in finance revenues and finance costs, respectively.
Derecognition A liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in the income statement.
iii Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED iv Fair values Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction in the principal or most advantageous market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active markets at the balance sheet date is determined by reference to quoted market prices or dealer price quotations, without any deduction for transaction costs.
For financial instruments not traded in an active market, the fair value is determined using appropriate valuation techniques.
Such techniques may include using recent arms length market transactions: reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis: or other valuation models.
An analysis of fair values of financial instruments and further details as to how they are measured are provided in Note 28. v Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in particular interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency exchange contracts, to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities and the financing of those activities.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair value on the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative financial instruments that do not fulfil the criteria for hedge accounting contained in IAS 39 are recognised immediately in the income statement.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a noncurrent liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
vi Hedge accounting The Group maintains documentation of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument at the inception of a hedging transaction together with the risk management objective and the strategy underlying the designated hedge.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at the inception of the hedging relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
Note 28 sets out the details of the fair values of the derivative financial instruments used for hedging purposes.
The Group does not currently have any designated fair value hedges or net investment hedges.
Cash flow hedge Cash flow hedging matches the cash flows of hedged items against the corresponding cash flows of the derivative.
The effective part of any profit or loss on the derivative is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the hedged item is accounted for in accordance with the policy for that financial instrument.
Any ineffective part of any profit or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative profit or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative profit or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
2.15 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, as follows: { raw materials purchase cost on a first in, first out basis.
{ work in progress and finished goods cost of direct materials and labour plus attributable overheads based on a normal level of activity.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
97 97 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.16 Cash and short-term deposits Cash and short-term deposits consist of cash at bank and in hand.
2.17 Pensions The Group operates a defined contribution pension plan.
Contributions payable in the year are charged to the income statement.
The assets are held separately from those of the Group in an independently administered fund.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
2.18 Non-underlying items The Group presents discontinued operations, amortisation of intangible assets, profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and non-recurring operating costs, finance costs and tax in respect of acquisitions as non-underlying items on the face of the income statement.
These are items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, the Directors consider merit separate presentation to provide a better and more consistent indication of the Groups underlying financial performance and more meaningful comparison with prior and future periods to assess trends in financial performance.
The tax effect of the above is also included.
2.19 Share-based payments In the case of equity-settled schemes, the fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at the date of grant and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The value of the options is measured using the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo models, taking into account the terms and conditions including market and non-vesting conditions upon which the options were granted.
Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
2.20 Own shares The Group operates an employee benefit trust EBT.
The Group, and or the EBT, holds Polypipe Group plc shares for the granting of Polypipe Group plc shares to employees and Directors.
These shares are recognised at cost and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
No profit or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of these shares.
No dividends are earned on these shares, and they are ignored for the purposes of calculating the Groups earnings per share.
2.21 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Restructuring provisions are recognised only when the Group has a constructive obligation, which is when a detailed formal plan identifies the business or part of the business concerned, the location and number of employees affected, a detailed estimate of the associated costs, and an appropriate timeline, and the employees affected have been notified of the plans main features.
Provisions for warranty-related costs are recognised when the product is sold or service provided to the customer.
Initial recognition is based on historical experience.
The initial estimate of warranty-related costs is revised at least annually.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 3.
JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following judgement has the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: 3.1 Discontinued operations In accordance with IFRS, the conditions for a disposal group or non-current asset to be classified as held-for-sale include whether management is committed to a plan to sell, the disposal group is available for immediate sale, an active programme to locate a buyer is initiated, the sale is highly probable within 12 months of classification as held-for-sale, subject to limited exceptions, the asset is being actively marketed for sale at a sales price reasonable in relation to its fair value and the actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that plan will be significantly changed or withdrawn.
On 31 January 2018, the Group announced it had entered into exclusive negotiations to sell Polypipe France.
It was determined that the sale was highly probable at 31 December 2017 and accordingly the French operations were classified as discontinued, the associated net assets were classified as held-for-sale, and a loss on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell was recognised.
The following estimates have the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: 3.2 Revenue recognition and customer rebates The Groups pricing structure involves rebate arrangements with several of its direct and indirect customers.
These can be complex in nature and involve estimation in determining the required level of provision for rebate liabilities, particularly where the Group is reliant on information from customers which may not be available at the time the liabilities are assessed.
3.3 Impairment of non-financial assets Non-financial assets include goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group considers whether there are any indicators of impairment of these assets.
Where indicators of impairment are identified, the Group tests the asset for impairment.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually at 31 December and when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
The Groups impairment test for goodwill is based on a value in use calculation.
The value in use calculation is based on a discounted cash flow model.
The cash flows are derived from the budgets and forecasts for the next four years and do not include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or significant future investments that will enhance the performance of the asset or the cash-generating unit CGU being tested.
The recoverable amount is most sensitive to the discount rate used for the discounted cash flow model as well as the expected future cash flows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes.
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the different CGUs are further explained in Note 16.
3.4 Restructuring provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle the probable outflow of resources, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
Onerous contracts are considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefit expected to be received under the contract.
Provisions for employee contract termination benefits are recognised when the Group is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan where valid expectations are created that the obligation will be discharged, or when the Group provides termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
3.5 Inventory provisioning The Directors make estimates based on experience regarding the level of provisioning required against slow-moving and obsolete items to state inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
99 99 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 4.
STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE Standards which have been adopted in the year There were no new standards or interpretations adopted in the year that had a material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Standards issued but not yet effective The following listing of standards and interpretations issued are those that the Group reasonably expects to have an impact on disclosures, financial position or performance but which have an effective date after the date of these consolidated financial statements.
The Group has not early adopted them and plans to adopt them from the effective dates adopted by the European Union.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Effective date IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities, introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
The Group has reviewed its financial assets and liabilities and is expecting the following impact from the adoption of the new standard on 1 January 2018: Cash and cash equivalents, and trade and other receivables: the new rules do not affect the classification and measurement of these financial assets which will continue to be recognised at amortised cost.
Financial liabilities: the new rules only affect the accounting for financial liabilities that are designated at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
The only liabilities currently designated as FVTPL are the forward foreign currency derivatives see below.
The derecognition rules have been transferred from IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and have not been changed.
Interest rate swaps: these will continue to qualify as hedges on adoption of IFRS 9.
Forward foreign currency derivatives: these are currently accounted for as held-for-trading derivatives at FVTPL.
Accordingly, no change is required to the way in which these liabilities are recognised.
The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on forward-looking expected credit losses rather than backward looking incurred losses previously applied under IAS 39.
This applies to financial assets classified at amortised cost, namely cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
The only financial asset that is currently impaired and which may continue to be impaired under IFRS 9 is trade receivables.
A large proportion of trade receivables are covered by credit insurance.
Initial assessments indicate any change to the loss allowance for trade receivables will be immaterial.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 which covers contracts for goods and services and IAS 11 which covers construction costs.
The new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer.
The standard permits either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach for the adoption.
We have considered variable consideration, specifically in relation to rebates.
The Group accounts for rebates as discussed in Notes 2.7 and 3.2 to the consolidated financial statements and there is not expected to be any impact of applying the new standard.
Due to the generally short-term nature of the Groups contracts there will likely be no significant impact on the timing of recognition of revenue prospectively.
The Group intends to adopt the standard using the modified retrospective approach which means that the cumulative impact of the adoption will be recognised in retained earnings as of 1 January 2018 and the comparatives will not be restated.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 4.
STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE CONTINUED IFRS 16 Leases Under IFRS 16 the present distinction between operating and finance leases will be removed, resulting in all leases being recognised on the balance sheet except short-term leases and leases of low-value assets and termed right-of-use assets.
At inception, a right-of-use asset will be recognised together with an equivalent liability reflecting the discounted lease payments over the estimated term of the lease.
While the overall cost of using the asset over the lease term should be the same, it is likely that the weighting of the charge between periods may differ due to the requirement to distinguish between the lease and non-lease elements of the agreement.
Adoption of this standard is likely to result in an increase in gross assets and gross liabilities in the balance sheet, and finance costs being reclassified in the income statement to depreciation and or interest expense.
Currently, the Group does not have any finance leases but does have operating leases which are disclosed in Note 26.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable financial estimate of the effect of this standard until a detailed review has been completed.
SEGMENT INFORMATION IFRS 8, Operating Segments, requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of the internal financial information reported to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The Groups CODM is deemed to be the Board of Directors, who are primarily responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments.
Following the announcement on 31 January 2018 that the Group had entered into exclusive negotiations to sell Polypipe France Holding SAS, its French operations, to Ryb S. A. the Board of Directors refined its reporting segments.
The Group now has two reporting segments Residential Systems and Commercial and Infrastructure Systems.
The reporting segments are organised based on the nature of the end markets served.
There are no significant judgements in aggregating operating segments to arrive at the reporting segments.
Inter-segment sales are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
As explained in Note 18, the operations of Polypipe France have been classified as discontinued during the year and consequently the comparative financial information has been restated where appropriate to meet the presentational requirements of IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held-for-Sale and Discontinued Operations, to take account of this change.
2017 2016 Commercial & Commercial & Residential Infrastructure Residential Infrastructure Systems Systems Total Systems Systems Total m m m m m m Continuing operations Segmental revenue 228.8 196.0 424.8 207.6 190.6 398.2 Inter segment revenue 5.3 7.8 13.1 4.9 6.1 11.0 Revenue 223.5 188.2 411.7 202.7 184.5 387.2 Underlying operating profit 44.3 28.3 72.6 39.1 29.4 68.5 Non-underlying items segmental 0.3 4.0 4.3 0.2 0.1 0.3 Segmental operating profit 44.0 24.3 68.3 39.3 29.5 68.8 Non-underlying items Group 5.8 7.7 Operating profit 62.5 61.1 Finance costs 6.9 7.6 Profit before tax 55.6 53.5 Underlying operating profit is stated before non-underlying items as defined in the Group Accounting Policies on page 98, and is the measure of segment profit used by the Groups CODM.
Details of the non-underlying items of 10.1m 2016: 7.4m are set out below at Non-underlying items before tax.
101 101 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 5.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Balance sheet 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Total Total Total Total assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Continuing operations Residential Systems 287.0 60.7 280.6 60.8 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 256.8 32.5 251.9 30.5 Total segment assets liabilities 543.8 93.2 532.5 91.3 Discontinued operations 23.3 10.9 33.1 8.1 Current and deferred income taxes 12.6 14.5 Net debt 35.7 184.1 26.5 190.8 Total Group 602.8 300.8 592.1 304.7 Net assets 302.0 287.4 Capital additions 2017 2016 m m Residential Systems 10.3 8.6 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 12.1 10.1 Continuing operations 22.4 18.7 Discontinued operations 1.3 1.0 Total Group 23.7 19.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2017 2016 m m Residential Systems 8.0 8.3 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 6.9 6.7 Continuing operations 14.9 15.0 Discontinued operations 1.3 1.3 Total Group 16.2 16.3 102 102 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 5.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Non-underlying items before tax 2017 2016 m m Residential Systems restructuring costs 0.3 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems restructuring costs 4.0 Residential Systems profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 UK operations 4.3 0.3 Group amortisation of intangible assets 5.5 6.8 Group aborted acquisition costs 0.3 Group impairment of freehold land and buildings 0.9 Continuing operations 10.1 7.4 Discontinued operations: loss recognised on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 12.5 Discontinued operations: profit loss from discontinued operations 1.4 0.9 Total Group 21.2 6.5 Geographical analysis 2017 2016 Revenue by destination m m Continuing operations UK 365.7 338.3 Rest of Europe 18.9 17.0 Rest of World 27.1 31.9 Total Group 411.7 387.2 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Non-current assets m m Continuing operations UK 451.1 450.1 Rest of Europe 4.0 3.9 Total Group 455.1 454.0 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets.
The Group has two customers 2016: two which individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups total continuing and discontinued revenue during 2017.
These customers account for 13.2% and 10.5% respectively 2016: 12.5% and 11.1% respectively and are included in both reporting segments.
103 103 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 6.
OPERATING PROFIT 2017 2016 m m Income statement charges Continuing operations Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned 14.9 15.0 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 238.8 219.1 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 4.0 4.5 Research and development costs written off 0.8 0.5 Discontinued operations Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned 1.3 1.3 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 46.1 37.7 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 0.1 0.4 Income statement credits continuing operations Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3 7.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Group paid the following amounts to the Companys auditor in respect of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and for other services provided to the Group.
Auditors remuneration for audit services: 2017 2016 m m Audit of the Companys annual financial statements Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 0.3 0.3 The Group did not make any payments to the Companys auditor for non-audit services 2016: nil.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 8.
NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS Non-underlying items comprised: 2017 2016 Gross Tax Net Gross Tax Net m m m m m m Cost of sales: Restructuring costs 2.8 0.2 2.6 Administration expenses: Restructuring costs 1.5 1.5 Administration expenses: Aborted acquisition costs 0.3 0.1 0.2 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Impairment of freehold land and buildings 0.9 0.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.5 0.9 4.6 6.8 1.6 5.2 Discontinued operations: loss recognised on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 12.5 12.5 Discontinued operations: profit loss from discontinued operations 1.4 0.2 1.2 0.9 0.1 0.8 Total non-underlying items 21.2 1.0 20.2 6.5 1.5 5.0 Gross restructuring costs of 4.3m were recognised in 2017 in respect of a change in our Commercial and Infrastructure Systems manufacturing strategy in the Middle East 4.0m and the relocation of our Residential Systems Domus Ventilation manufacturing facilities 0.3m.
The Middle East restructuring plan was drawn up and announced to the relevant employees in 2017.
The Domus Ventilation restructuring plan was drawn up, announced and completed in 2017.
Of the 4.0m Middle East restructuring costs, 1.7m were non-cash and the remaining 2.3m costs are expected to be fully cash settled by the end of 2018.
The discontinued operations relate to the sale of Polypipe France Holding SAS as explained in Note 18.
Provisions comprised: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Restructuring costs 2.2 105 105 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 9.
STAFF COSTS Staff costs including Directors comprised: 2017 2016 m m Continuing operations Wages and salaries 87.1 81.2 Social security costs 8.3 7.6 Other pension costs 2.6 2.4 98.0 91.2 Discontinued operations Wages and salaries 6.2 5.8 Social security costs 2.6 2.4 Other pension costs 0.1 0.1 8.9 8.3 Total Group 106.9 99.5 The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group by segment was as follows: 2017 2016 No.
Residential Systems 1,668 1,537 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 1,257 1,199 Continuing operations 2,925 2,736 Discontinued operations 214 202 Total Group 3,139 2,938 10.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Details of the Directors remuneration are set out below: 2017 2016 m m Fees 0.3 0.3 Emoluments 1.8 1.9 2.1 2.2 The aggregate amount of gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options during the year was 0.3m 2016: 0.2m.
FINANCE COSTS 2017 2016 m m Interest on bank loan 5.8 6.6 Debt issue cost amortisation 0.3 0.4 Other finance costs 0.8 0.6 Finance costs 6.9 7.6 106 106 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 12.
INCOME TAX a Tax charged in the income statement 2017 2016 m m Continuing operations Current income tax: UK income tax 11.2 12.4 Overseas income tax 0.1 Total current income tax 11.3 12.4 Deferred income tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.7 2.0 Effect of changes in income tax rates 0.3 Total deferred income tax 0.7 2.3 Total tax expense reported in the income statement 10.6 10.1 2017 2016 m m Discontinued operations Current income tax: Overseas income tax 0.2 0.1 Total tax expense reported in the income statement 0.2 0.1 Details of the non-underlying tax credit of 1.0m 2016: 1.5m are set out in Note 8. b Reconciliation of the total tax charge A reconciliation between the tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the blended UK standard rate of income tax for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Accounting profit before tax continuing operations 55.6 53.5 Accounting profit multiplied by the blended UK standard rate of income tax of 19.25% 2016: 20.00% 10.7 10.7 Expenses not deductible for income tax 0.4 0.7 Non-taxable income 0.1 Share-based payments 0.4 0.3 Effects of patent box 0.8 0.7 Effects of changes in income tax rates 0.1 Effects of other tax rates credits 0.8 0.2 Total tax expense reported in the income statement continuing operations 10.6 10.1 Total tax expense reported in the income statement discontinued operations 0.2 0.1 The effective rate for the full year was 19.1% 2016: 18.9%.
If the impact of non-underlying items is excluded, the underlying income tax rate would be 18.0% 2016: 19.2%.
107 107 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 12.
INCOME TAX CONTINUED c Deferred income tax The deferred income tax included in the Group balance sheet is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Continuing operations Deferred income tax liabilities assets Short-term timing differences 6.2 6.5 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 1.3 1.4 Share-based payments 0.5 0.4 Continuing operations 7.0 7.5 Discontinued operations 0.3 0.2 The Group offsets tax assets and liabilities if, and only if, it has a legally enforceable right to set off current income tax assets and current income tax liabilities and the deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
A reconciliation of deferred income taxes for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Deferred income tax reported in the income statement 0.7 2.3 Deferred income tax reported in other comprehensive income 0.3 0.3 Share-based payments excess tax benefit 0.1 0.1 Net foreign exchange difference 0.1 0.6 2.7 d Change in corporation tax rate The Chancellor has announced that the main UK corporation tax rate will be reduced from the current rate of 19%, which was applied from 1 April 2017, to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The reduction in the corporation tax rate to 17% was included within the UK Finance Act 2016 that was enacted in September 2016.
Deferred income tax is measured at income tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary timing differences are expected to reverse based on income tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax has therefore been provided at 17% 2016: 17%.
e Unrecognised tax losses A deferred income tax asset of 0.6m 2016: 1.0m in respect of surplus non-trading losses of 3.7m 2016: 5.5m has not been recognised at 31December 2017 as its recovery is uncertain.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 13.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
The diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of potential ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive share options into ordinary shares.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following: 2017 2016 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share 198,390,485 198,930,384 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 1,788,892 1,053,339 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share 200,179,377 199,983,723 Underlying earnings per share is based on the result for the year after tax excluding the impact of non-underlying items of 20.2m 2016: 5.0m.
The Directors consider that this measure provides a better and more consistent indication of the Groups underlying financial performance and more meaningful comparison with prior and future periods to assess trends in our financial performance.
The underlying earnings per share is calculated as follows: 2017 2016 Underlying profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company m 53.9 49.2 Underlying basic earnings per share pence 27.2 24.7 Underlying diluted earnings per share pence 26.9 24.6 14.
DIVIDENDS PER SHARE 2017 2016 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 7.0p per share 2015: 5.5p 13.9 11.0 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 3.6p per share 2016: 3.1p 7.1 6.1 21.0 17.1 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 7.5p per share 2016: 7.0p 14.9 13.9 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these consolidated financial statements.
109 109 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 15.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold Plant land and and other buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2016 48.1 147.0 195.1 Additions 1.2 18.5 19.7 Disposals 3.2 3.2 Reclassified as assets held-for-sale 3.2 3.2 Exchange adjustment 1.0 4.6 5.6 At 31 December 2016 47.1 166.9 214.0 Additions 1.9 21.8 23.7 Disposals 1.3 1.3 Reclassified as assets held-for-sale 11.5 31.4 42.9 Exchange adjustment 0.3 1.2 1.5 At 31 December 2017 37.8 157.2 195.0 Depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January 2016 10.1 86.9 97.0 Provided during the year 1.4 14.9 16.3 Disposals 3.1 3.1 Impairment 0.9 0.9 Reclassified as assets held-for-sale 2.5 2.5 Exchange adjustment 0.7 3.7 4.4 At 31 December 2016 10.6 102.4 113.0 Provided during the year 1.3 14.9 16.2 Disposals 1.2 1.2 Impairment 0.9 0.9 Reclassified as assets held-for-sale 6.7 27.0 33.7 Exchange adjustment 0.2 1.0 1.2 At 31 December 2017 5.4 91.0 96.4 Net book value: At 31 December 2017 32.4 66.2 98.6 At 31 December 2016 36.5 64.5 101.0 The impairment charge in 2017 of 0.9m related to plant and equipment in the Middle East as explained in Note 8.
The Polypipe France assets with a net book value of 9.2m were reclassified as held-for-sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Noncurrent Assets Held-for-Sale and Discontinued Operations, as explained in Note 18.
The impairment charge in 2016 of 0.9m related to surplus freehold land and buildings at Wolverhampton that are being actively marketed and writes down their carrying amount to 0.7m being their fair value less costs to sell.
The written down asset was reclassified as held-for-sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held-for-Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Included in freehold land and buildings is non-depreciable land of 12.6m 2016: 13.0m.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 16.
The Polypipe France goodwill of 9.6m was reclassified as held-for-sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Heldfor-Sale and Discontinued Operations, as explained in Note 18.
Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to a number of cash-generating units CGUs.
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each of the CGUs: CGU 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Building Products 146.1 146.1 Terrain 31.4 31.4 Civils 36.0 36.0 Nuaire 91.3 91.3 Others 14.9 24.5 319.7 329.3 Impairment tests on the carrying amounts of goodwill are performed by analysing the carrying amount allocated to each CGU against its value in use.
Value in use is calculated for each CGU as the net present value of that CGUs discounted future pretax cash flows.
These pre-tax cash flows are based on budgeted cash flows information for a period of one year, construction industry forecasts of growth for the following year and growth of between 2% to 3% thereafter 2016: 2% to 3%.
A pre-tax discount rate of 10.0% 2016: 10.0% has been applied in determining the recoverable amounts of CGUs.
The pretax discount rate is estimated based on the Groups risk adjusted cost of capital.
The Group has applied sensitivities to the remaining goodwill of 319.7m to assess whether any reasonably possible changes in assumptions could cause an impairment that would be material to these consolidated financial statements.
The application of these sensitivities did not cause an impairment of goodwill.
111 111 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 17.
INVESTMENTS Details of Group undertakings Details of the investments in which the Group holds 20% or more of the nominal value of any class of share capital at 31 December 2017 are set out in Note 4 to the parent company financial statements.
ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD-FOR-SALE On 31 January 2018, the Group announced that it had entered into exclusive negotiations to sell Polypipe France Holding SAS, its French operations, to Ryb S. A. a France-based manufacturer and distributor of plastics in Europe.
The cash consideration payable by Ryb S. A. will be 16.5m on a cash-free, debt-free and normalised working capital basis.
It was determined that the sale was highly probable at 31 December 2017 and accordingly the net assets of the French operations have been classified as held-for-sale in the consolidated balance sheet.
In accordance with IFRS 5, Non-current Assets Held-for-Sale and Discontinued Operations, an impairment loss of 12.5m to remeasure the carrying amount of the assets to fair value less costs to sell has been recognised following the reclassification of the net assets of Polypipe France Holding SAS as held-for-sale.
An analysis of the assets held-for-sale and liabilities associated with the assets classified as held-for-sale is as follows: Impairment 31 December Book value loss 2017 m m m Assets held-for-sale Intangible assets 9.6 9.6 Property, plant and equipment 9.2 2.9 6.3 Inventories 7.7 7.7 Trade and other receivables 9.0 9.0 Deferred income tax assets 0.3 0.3 35.8 12.5 23.3 Liabilities associated with assets classified as held-for-sale Trade and other payables 9.5 9.5 Income tax payable 0.2 0.2 Other liabilities 1.2 1.2 10.9 10.9 Net assets held-for-sale 24.9 12.5 12.4 The table below provides further detail of the discontinued operations: 2017 2016 m m Revenue 58.4 49.7 Expenses 57.0 48.8 Profit before tax 1.4 0.9 Income tax 0.2 0.1 Profit from discontinued operations 1.2 0.8 Loss recognised on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 12.5 Profit loss from discontinued operations 11.3 0.8 112 112 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 18.
ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD-FOR-SALE CONTINUED The remaining assets classified as held-for-sale comprised: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Property, plant and equipment 0.7 0.7 These assets classified as held-for-sale consist exclusively of freehold land currently not in use by the Group.
It is expected that the disposal of this asset will be completed during 2018.
The assets classified as held-for-sale are analysed between operating segments as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Residential Systems 0.4 0.4 Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.7 19.
INVENTORIES 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Raw materials 18.2 17.4 Work in progress 5.3 6.1 Finished goods 30.0 28.7 53.5 52.2 All inventories are carried at cost less a provision to take account of slow-moving and obsolete items.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Trade receivables 28.6 34.9 Other receivables 1.2 Prepayments and accrued income 5.9 4.0 34.5 40.1 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally settled on 30 days credit.
113 113 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 20.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED Impairment losses The Group maintains a substantial level of credit insurance covering the majority of its trade receivables which mitigates against possible impairment losses.
Therefore, such impairment losses are not significant.
The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date was as follows: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Gross Provisions Net Gross Provisions Net m m m m m m Not past due 26.9 26.9 31.1 31.1 Past due 130 days 0.9 0.9 2.1 2.1 Past due 3190 days 0.6 0.6 2.0 0.3 1.7 Past due more than 90 days 0.7 0.5 0.2 0.3 0.3 29.1 0.5 28.6 35.5 0.6 34.9 The movements in provisions for impairment of trade receivables comprised: m At 31 December 2016 and 2015 0.6 Charged to the income statement during the year 0.3 Utilised during the year 0.4 At 31 December 2017 0.5 21.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents comprised: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 35.7 26.5 Cash at bank earns interest at variable rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
The Group only deposits cash surpluses with banks that have as a minimum a single A credit rating.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES Share capital 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Number Number Authorised share capital: Ordinary shares of 0.001 each 200 200,000 200 200,000 Allotted, called up and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 0.001 each 200 200,000 200 200,000 Millions of shares.
The ordinary shares are voting non-redeemable shares and rank equally as to dividends, voting rights and any return of capital on winding up.
Capital redemption reserve Following the consolidation and sub-division of shares in 2014 the Companys deferred shares were cancelled.
In order to maintain the Companys capital a transfer was made from retained earnings to a capital redemption reserve at that time.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 22.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES CONTINUED Own shares Own shares represent the cost of Polypipe Group plc shares purchased in the market and held by the Company, and or the employee benefit trust EBT, to satisfy the future exercise of options under the Groups share option schemes.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2017 was 1.6m 2016: 5.6m.
The nominal value of each share is 0.001.
The EBT held 748,000 shares at 31 December 2017 2016: nil at an average cost of 422p 2016: nil per share.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2017 was 2.9m 2016: nil.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve contains the effective portion of the cash flow hedge relationships entered into by the Group in respect of interest rate swaps as mentioned in Note 25.
Foreign currency retranslation reserve The foreign currency retranslation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains an appropriate capital structure to support its business objectives and maximise shareholder value.
The Group regards shareholders equity and net debt as its capital.
The Groups net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had bank debt of 185.0m 2016: 192.0m, an undrawn committed revolving credit facility of 105.0m 2016: 108.0m and cash of 35.7m 2016: 26.5m.
A key objective of the Group is to maintain sufficient liquidity cash and committed bank facilities in order to meet its cash commitments including interest payments due on that debt.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
115 115 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 23.
Participating employees can exercise their options to purchase the shares acquired through their savings plans at the option price after three years.
These options have an exercise date of 2020 to 2021.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP LTIP options were awarded to a number of senior executives on 2 May and 22 May 2017.
These options have an exercise date of 2020 to 2027.
The vesting of each award is subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria, of which 25% is based on total shareholder return the TSR element and 75% is based on earnings per share performance the EPS element.
Further details of the scheme are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP On 25 April 2017, the Executive Directors received an award of shares under the DSBP relating to the 2016 annual bonus.
David Halls deferred bonus share awards vested upon cessation of employment on 2 October 2017 in accordance with the DSBP rules, and were settled in cash.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 23.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Other share awards In 2016 other share awards in the form of nil cost options were made relating to buy-out arrangements to partially compensate Martin Payne for bonus and long-term incentive awards which were forfeited when he left his previous employer.
Of these, 24,352 were exercised on 8 August 2017 including 668 in respect of dividends accrued since the grant date.
Further details are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
All these equity-settled, share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the date of grant of the equity-settled, share-based payments is expensed to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimates of shares that will eventually vest, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Fair value for the Sharesave Plan options and the EPS element of the LTIP options is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model.
Fair value of the TSR element of the LTIP options is measured by use of a Monte Carlo model.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The assumptions used for each share-based payment are as follows: 2014 2014 2014 LTIP LTIP Sharesave options options options granted granted granted 2 May 2017 22 May 2017 2017 Share price at the date of grant 4.03 4.20 4.09 Exercise price Nil Nil 3.10 Shares under option 499,896 10,960 1,108,772 Vesting period years 3.00 3.00 3.25 Expected volatility 30.0% 29.9% 28.0% Median volatility of the comparator group 29.9% 30.0% n a Expected life years 3.00 3.00 3.25 Risk free rate 0.15% 0.18% 0.30% Dividend yield 2.50% 2.40% 2.59% TSR performance of the Company at the date of grant 31.7% 37.2% n a Median TSR performance of the comparator group at the date of grant 17.0% 17.0% n a Correlation median 22.4% 22.6% n a Fair value per option 3.44 3.63 0.91 117 117 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 23.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED 2014 2014 2014 LTIP LTIP Sharesave options options options granted granted granted 10 May 2016 31 May 2016 2016 Share price at the date of grant 2.87 3.18 2.77 Exercise price Nil Nil 2.21 Shares under option 552,803 77,743 1,422,700 Vesting period years 3.00 3.00 3.25 Expected volatility 25.4% 25.6% 26.7% Median volatility of the comparator group 26.1% 26.0% n a Expected life years 3.00 3.00 3.25 Risk free rate 0.50% 0.58% 0.18% Dividend yield 2.80% 2.53% 3.35% TSR performance of the Company at the date of grant 3.3% 7.4% n a Median TSR performance of the comparator group at the date of grant 1.6% 2.8% n a Correlation median 13.4% 13.4% n a Fair value per option 2.32 2.65 0.60 The expected volatility is based on historical share price movements.
The Directors anticipate it is possible the performance criteria in relation to the LTIP options may not be met.
2017 2016 m m Share-based payments charge for the year 1.2 1.3 24.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Trade payables 68.5 66.6 Other taxes and social security costs 8.3 11.4 Accruals 10.8 13.8 87.6 91.8 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and generally settled on 30 to 60 day terms.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 25.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Non-current loans and borrowings: Bank loan principal 185.0 192.0 unamortised debt issue costs 0.9 1.2 Total non-current loans and borrowings 184.1 190.8 m m Other financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 87.6 91.8 Forward foreign currency derivatives 1.5 Interest rate swaps 2.5 4.2 Other liabilities 0.9 2.1 91.0 99.6 Bank loan The bank loan, which is a revolving credit facility, is secured and expires in full in August 2020.
Interest is payable on the bank loan at LIBOR plus an interest margin ranging from 1.25% to 2.75% which is dependent on the Groups leverage net debt as a multiple of EBITDA and reduces as the Groups leverage reduces.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had available, subject to covenant headroom, 105.0m 2016: 108.0m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at 31 December 2017.
The facility reduced by 10m to 290m at 31 December 2017 and will reduce by a further 10m each year, regardless of leverage, at 31 December 2018 and 2019: the remainder is available until August 2020.
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its bank loan which, if breached, would result in the bank loan becoming immediately repayable.
These covenants specify certain maximum limits in terms of net debt as a multiple of EBITDA and interest cover.
At 31 December 2017, the Group was not in breach of any bank covenants.
The covenant position was as follows: Position at Covenant 31 December Covenant requirement 2017 Interest cover Underlying operating profit:Finance costs excluding debt issue cost amortisation 4.0:1 11.5:1 Leverage Net debt:EBITDA 3.0:1 1.6:1 The interest cover and leverage covenants remain at 4.0:1 and 3.0:1, respectively, throughout the remaining term of the revolving credit facility to August 2020.
119 119 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 26.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and plant and equipment.
These leases have an average life of between five to ten years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases comprised: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Land and buildings Within one year 1.2 0.2 After one year, but not more than five years 3.5 3.0 More than five years 5.7 9.4 10.4 12.6 Continuing operations m m Plant and equipment Within one year 0.2 0.1 After one year, but not more than five years 2.3 2.7 More than five years 2.6 2.2 5.1 5.0 Capital commitments At 31 December 2017, the Group had commitments of 3.6m 2016: 6.5m relating to plant and equipment purchases.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Compensation of key management personnel including Directors 2017 2016 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.9 2.9 Share-based payments 0.5 0.5 3.4 3.4 Key management personnel comprise the Executive Directors and key divisional managers.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has trade and other receivables and cash that are derived directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate cash flow, foreign currency exchange, credit and liquidity risk.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 28.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED The Groups senior management oversees the mitigation of these risks which are summarised as follows: Interest rate cash flow risk The interest rate on the Groups 290m revolving credit facility is variable, being payable at LIBOR plus a margin.
To reduce the Groups exposure to potential future increases in interest rates the Group has entered into interest rate swaps for the following notional amounts, with interest payable at a fixed rate return dependent on the swap of either 2.21% or 1.735% 2016: 2.21% or 1.735% excluding margin : Notional Notional amount amount rate rate of 2.21% of 1.735% Year ending 31 December m m 2018 66.6 25.1 2019 82.0 To August 2020 72.2 Foreign currency exchange risk Foreign currency exchange risk is the risk that the fair value of a financial instrument or future cash flows will fluctuate because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the Groups operating activities where the revenue or expense is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity undertaking the transaction.
The Group enters into forward foreign currency exchange contracts for the purchase and sale of foreign currencies in order to manage its exposure to fluctuations in currency rates primarily in respect of US Dollar and Euro receipts and payments.
Foreign currency exchange sensitivity The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a 10% change in the Euro exchange rate and the United Arab Emirates Dirham exchange rate versus Pounds Sterling, the presentational currency of the Group used for translation purposes, on the net assets and profit after tax of the Group.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes for all other currencies is not material.
Effect on Effect on profit net assets after tax Change in exchange rate m m 2017 10% strengthening of Pounds Sterling: against Euro 1.8 0.1 10% weakening of Pounds Sterling: against Euro 2.2 0.1 10% strengthening of Pounds Sterling: against United Arab Emirate Dirham 0.1 0.3 10% weakening of Pounds Sterling: against United Arab Emirate Dirham 0.1 0.4 2016 10% strengthening of Pounds Sterling: against Euro 1.6 0.1 10% weakening of Pounds Sterling: against Euro 2.0 0.1 10% strengthening of Pounds Sterling: against United Arab Emirate Dirham 0.5 10% weakening of Pounds Sterling: against United Arab Emirate Dirham 0.6 121 121 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 28.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily for trade receivables and from its financing activities, including cash deposits with banks.
Trade receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each subsidiary subject to the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk management.
Credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any shipments to major export customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
The requirement for impairment is analysed at each balance sheet date on an individual basis for major clients.
Additionally, a large number of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively.
The calculation is based on actually incurred historical data.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the carrying amount of each class of financial assets as disclosed in Note 20.
The Group does not hold collateral as security.
The Group evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low.
At 31 December 2017, 68.2% 2016: 75.3% of net trade receivables were covered by credit insurance which is subject to the normal policy deductibles.
Financial instruments and cash deposits The Group maintains strong liquidity through cash balances and deposits 35.7m at 31December 2017 and its undrawn committed revolving credit facility 105.0m at 31December 2017 which matures in August 2020. Credit risk arising from cash deposits with banks is managed in accordance with the Groups established treasury policy, procedures and controls.
Deposits of surplus funds are made only with banks that have as a minimum a single A credit rating.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 is the carrying amounts as illustrated in Note 21.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group had cash and cash equivalents of 35.7m and undrawn and committed credit facilities of 105.0m at 31 December 2017, and no debt maturities within 12 months.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments: 31 December 2017 3 to 12 1 to 5 3 months months years Total m m m m Bank loan principal 185.0 185.0 Other financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 87.6 87.6 Forward foreign currency derivatives Interest rate swaps 2.5 2.5 Other liabilities 0.9 0.9 87.6 188.4 276.0 122 122 polypipe.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED 31 December 2016 3 to 12 1 to 5 3 months months years Total m m m m Bank loan principal 192.0 192.0 Other financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 91.8 91.8 Forward foreign currency derivatives 0.8 0.6 0.1 1.5 Interest rate swaps 4.2 4.2 Other liabilities 2.1 2.1 92.6 0.6 198.4 291.6 Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The book value of trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, cash balances, bank loan and other liabilities equates to fair value.
The table below sets out the Groups accounting classification of its other financial assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts and fair values: Carrying Fair value value m m Forward foreign currency derivatives Interest rate swaps 2.5 2.5 Interest bearing loans and borrowings due after more than one year 184.1 184.1 Total at 31 December 2017 186.6 186.6 Carrying Fair value value m m Forward foreign currency derivatives 1.5 1.5 Interest rate swaps 4.2 4.2 Interest bearing loans and borrowings due after more than one year 190.8 190.8 Total at 31 December 2016 196.5 196.5 The fair value of the interest rate swaps was determined by reference to market values.
Forward foreign currency derivatives fair value was determined using quoted exchange rates.
Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recognised fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recognised fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The fair values disclosed above all relate to items categorised as Level 2.
There have been no transfers in any direction between Levels 1, 2 or 3 in the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016.
123 123 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 29.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT The analysis of cash generated from operations split by continuing and discontinued operations is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Continuing operations Profit before tax 55.6 53.5 Finance costs 6.9 7.6 Operating profit 62.5 61.1 Non-cash items: Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3 Non-underlying items amortisation of intangibles assets 5.5 6.8 provision for restructuring costs 4.3 settlement of restructuring costs 0.4 impairment of freehold land and buildings 0.9 provision for aborted acquisition costs 0.3 settlement of aborted acquisition costs 0.1 Depreciation 14.9 15.0 Share-based payments 0.8 1.0 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 87.7 84.5 Movement in working capital: Receivables 2.5 8.2 Payables 0.7 13.4 Inventories 8.0 4.7 Cash generated from operations 77.9 85.0 Income tax paid 12.6 10.1 Net cash flows from operating activities 65.3 74.9 Investing activities Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 22.2 18.1 Net cash flows from investing activities 22.0 17.7 Financing activities Repayment of bank loan 7.0 25.5 Interest paid 6.6 7.3 Dividends paid 21.0 17.1 Purchase of own shares 3.2 2.9 Proceeds from exercise of share options 2.5 Net cash flows from financing activities 35.3 52.8 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 8.0 4.4 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 24.5 20.3 Net foreign exchange difference 0.2 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 32.3 24.5 124 124 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP OUR FINANCIALS 29.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT CONTINUED 2017 2016 m m Discontinued operations Profit before tax from discontinued operations 1.4 0.9 Loss recognised on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 12.5 Operating loss profit 11.1 0.9 Non-cash items: Non-underlying item loss recognised on remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell 12.5 Depreciation 1.3 1.3 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 2.7 2.2 Movement in working capital: Receivables 0.7 0.1 Payables 1.4 1.9 Inventories 0.9 1.3 Net cash flows from operating activities 2.5 1.5 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.0 Net cash flows from investing activities 1.2 1.0 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 1.3 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 2.0 1.3 Net foreign exchange difference 0.1 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 3.4 2.0 125 125
