Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Loans as well as trade receivables are generally held to collect contractual 1.
Adoption of new and revised standards cash flows and are expected to give rise to cash flows solely representing payments of principal and interest.
The Group believes that the contractual The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been cash flow characteristics of those instruments meet the criteria for adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant amortised cost measurement under IFRS 9 and any reclassification impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but may of these instruments is estimated to be minimal.
impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
b Impairment IAS 7 Amendments Statement of cash flows on disclosure IFRS 9 requires the Group to record expected credit losses on all of its initiative debt securities, loans and trade receivables, either on a 12-month or lifetime basis.
The Group will apply the simplified approach and record The following Standards and Interpretations have not been applied in lifetime expected losses on all trade receivables and will not restate these financial statements because while in issue, are not yet effective comparative information.
During 2017, the Group has performed an and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU : impact assessment of IFRS 9 to estimate the additional provision to be recorded resulting from the expected credit loss from its trade receivables IFRS 9 Financial instruments and anticipated no significant change in level of impairment recognised IAS 12 Amendments Income taxes on Recognition of deferred tax compared to that based on current procedures.
assets for unrealised losses IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 Amendments Revenue from contracts with customers The IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 in May 2014.
Subsequent amendments, Clarifications IFRS 40 Amendments Investment property to IFRS 15, were issued in April 2016.
Both of these have now IFRS 4 Amendments Insurance contracts been endorsed by the EU.
The new amended standard replaces IFRS 16 Leases IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and other existing IFRS 2 Amendments Share based payment revenue interpretations.
IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance IFRS 15 sets out new requirements for recognising revenue and costs considerations from contracts with customers.
In particular, it outlines new principles IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments for an entity to follow in determining the measurement and recognition IFRS 17 Insurance contracts of revenue using a five-step model.
This model requires revenue to be Annual improvements recognised when or as goods or services are transferred to customers 2014-2016 based on the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled.
Annual improvements The new standard is required to be applied by the Group from 1 January 2015-2017 2018 and hence IFRS 15 will be adopted in the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial While our assessment remains ongoing, from work performed to date, Instruments that replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition which has included a detailed review of some of our largest customer and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 brings contracts: together all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments as the majority of the Groups revenues are derived from the supply project: classification and measurement, impairment and hedge of goods, i. e. a single performance obligation, the transition to accounting.
The new version of IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods IFRS 15 is not anticipated to have a significant impact on the Groups beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.
revenue recognition including the approach applied under IAS 18 for Except for hedge accounting, retrospective application is required: estimating chargebacks, returns, rebates and price adjustments and but providing comparative information is not mandatory.
For hedge it is currently anticipated that the standard will be adopted on a accounting, the requirements are generally applied prospectively, modified retrospective basis with some limited exceptions.
It is, though, noted that the Groups current accounting policy to defer The Group plans to adopt the new standard on the effective date and revenue recognition in isolated circumstances where dynamic market will not restate comparative information.
circumstances mean that the ultimate net selling price cannot be reliably a Classification and measurement measured as currently applied under IAS 18, will need to be revised.
IFRS The Group does not expect a significant impact on its balance sheet or 15 requires variable consideration to be included in the transaction price equity upon applying the classification and measurement requirements albeit only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal of IFRS 9. in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur.
As the Group has rarely deferred revenue under IAS 18 on the basis of being unable to reliably measure the ultimate net selling price, this change in the Groups stated accounting policy is not anticipated to give rise to a significant difference.
127 127 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries and as 2.
Significant accounting policies part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and associates.
General Information Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated and no Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is a public limited liability company profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries until the products incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006. are sold to customers outside the Group.
The address of the registered office is given on page 181.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are recorded directly in equity.
Basis of preparation Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLCs consolidated financial statements are Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is accounted for only prepared in accordance with: to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
i EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Business combinations and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Standards The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition Interpretations Committee and those parts of the Companies method.
All identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired Act 2006 as applicable to companies using IFRS.
are measured at fair value on the acquisition date.
All acquisition related costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
ii International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consideration is measured at the aggregate fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, at the acquisition date.
convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial Where applicable, this consideration may include the fair value of assets assets and liabilities.
or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
The accounting policies included in this note have been applied Subsequent changes to those fair values can only affect the measurement consistently other than where new policies have been adopted.
of goodwill, where they occur during the measurement period and are as a result of additional information becoming available about facts and The Groups previously published financial statements were also prepared circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
All other changes are in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB and also in accordance with dealt with in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
This will usually mean that IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union.
changes in the fair value of consideration are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The presentational and functional currency of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is the US dollar as the majority of the Companys business is conducted Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups in US dollars.
previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control.
Going concern The resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the consolidated The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a income statement.
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence and therefore considered Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially the going concern basis as appropriate.
Therefore, they continue to adopt measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of consideration, the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial non-controlling interest and fair value of previously held equity interest statements see page 65. over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees Basis of consolidation identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of Hikma cost of the consideration, the excess is recognised immediately in Pharmaceuticals PLC the Company and entities controlled by the the consolidated income statement.
The non-controlling interest in the acquiree is initially measured at the The consolidated financial statements include: non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
the assets and liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries, entities that are controlled by the Group, through If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the power of governing the financial and operating policies to obtain the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the benefits from its activities Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting the Groups share of the results and net assets of associates and is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the joint ventures measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, 31 December each year.
would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the Group The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition acquires control and interests sold are fide-consolidated from the date to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and control ceases.
circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Significant accounting policies continued Revenue is recognised in the consolidated income statement when goods or services are supplied or made available to external customers Investment in associates and joint ventures against orders received and when risk of loss and rewards have passed.
An associate is an entity which the Group has significant influence over, where the Group has the power to participate in the financial and operating Revenue represents the amounts receivable after the deduction of policy decisions of the investee revenue.
discounts, value added tax, other sales taxes, allowances given, provisions for chargebacks and accruals for estimated future rebates and returns.
Joint Ventures are entities that the Group has the ability to exercise joint The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates and control over their economic activities and net assets.
returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in light of contractual and historical information.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of Dynamic market changes can generate uncertainty as to the ultimate accounting, where the investments are carried in the consolidated balance net selling price of a pharmaceutical product and therefore revenue cannot sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share always be measured reliably at the point when the product is supplied of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of or made available to external customers.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, If the ultimate net selling price cannot be reliably measured, revenue in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate recognition is deferred until a reliable measurement can be made.
Deferred are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or revenue is included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the Chargebacks net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities The provision for chargebacks is the most significant and complex of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised estimate used in the recognition of revenue.
In the US, the Group as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the sells its products directly to wholesale distributors, generic distributors, investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
retail pharmacy chains and mail-order pharmacies.
The Group also Any impairment charges are recognised immediately in the consolidated sells its products indirectly to independent pharmacies, managed care income statement.
organisations, hospitals, and group purchasing organisations, collectively referred to as indirect customers.
The Group enters into agreements Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, profits with its indirect customers to establish pricing for certain products.
The and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the indirect customers then independently select a wholesaler from which relevant associate.
they purchase the products at agreed-upon prices.
The Group will provide credit to the wholesaler for the difference between the agreed-upon price Foreign currencies with the indirect customer and the wholesalers invoice price.
This credit Foreign currency transactions, being transactions denominated in a is called a chargeback.
The provision for chargebacks is based on historical currency other than an individual Group entitys functional currency, sell-through levels by the Groups wholesale customers to the indirect are translated into the relevant functional currencies of individual Group customers, and estimated wholesaler inventory levels.
As sales are made entities at average rates for the relevant monthly accounting periods, which to large wholesale customers, the Group continually monitors the reserve approximate to actual rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities arising from for chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes that actual foreign currency transactions are retranslated at exchange rates prevailing chargebacks may differ from estimated reserves.
Exchange gains and losses on loans and on shortterm foreign currency borrowings and deposits are included within finance Returns income and expense.
Exchange differences on all other foreign currency The Group has a product return policy that allows customers to return the transactions are recognised in operating profit in the individual Group product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration entitys accounting records.
Non-monetary items arising from foreign date.
Provisions for returns are recognised as a reduction of revenue in the currency transactions are not retranslated in the individual Group entitys period in which the underlying sales are recognised.
In the Consolidated Financial Statements, income and expense items for Group entities with a functional currency other than The Group estimates its provision for returns based on historical experience, US dollars are translated into US dollars at average exchange rates, which representing managements best estimate.
While such experience has approximate to actual rates, for the relevant accounting periods.
Assets enabled reasonable estimations in the past, history may not always be an and liabilities are translated at the US dollar exchange rates prevailing accurate indicator of future returns.
The Group continually monitors the at the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising on consolidation are provisions for returns and makes adjustments when it believes that actual recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income.
product returns may differ from established reserves.
Hyperinflationary economies Rebates In hyperinflationary economies, when translating the results of operations In certain countries, rebates are granted to healthcare authorities and into US dollars, assets, liabilities, income statement and equity accounts under contractual arrangements with certain customers.
Products sold in are translated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Sudan the United States are covered by various programmes such as Medicaid was considered as a hyperinflationary economy in the year ended under which products are sold at a discount.
As of 31 December 2017, Sudan is no longer considered as a hyperinflationary economy and had no material impact in 2017, however, it will be kept under review in 2018 for hyperinflation.
The effect of inflation accounting in Sudan for the year ended 31 December 2016 was not material.
129 129 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The cost of share-based payments is recognised, together with a 2.
Significant accounting policies continued corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will The Group estimates its provision for rebates based on current contractual eventually vest.
The Group revises its estimate of the number of equity terms and conditions as well as historical experience, changes to business instruments expected to vest and the impact of the revision of the original practices and credit terms.
While such experience has enabled reasonable estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated income statement, estimations in the past, history may not always be an accurate indicator of such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with future rebate liabilities.
The Group continually monitors the provisions for a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
Where the terms of rebates and makes adjustments when it believes that actual rebates may share-based payments award are modified, as a minimum, an expense differ from established reserves.
All rebates are recognised in the period is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an in which the underlying sales are recognised as a reduction of revenue.
expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the modification date.
Where Price adjustments a share-based payments award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested Price adjustments, also known as shelf stock adjustments, are credits on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the issued to reflect decreases in the selling prices of the Groups products award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted that customers have remaining in their inventories at the time of the price for a cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date reduction.
Decreases in selling prices are discretionary decisions made that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were by Group management to reflect competitive market conditions.
Amounts a modification of the original award, as described above.
The dilutive effect recorded for estimated shelf stock adjustments are based upon specified of outstanding share-based payments is reflected as additional share terms with direct customers, estimated declines in market prices and dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
estimates of inventory held by customers.
The Group regularly monitors these and other factors and re-evaluates the reserve as additional Retirement benefit costs information becomes available.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement Free goods benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes Free goods are issued to customers as sale incentives, reimbursement of where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those agreed upon expenses incurred by the customer or as compensation for arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
Free goods are recognised at cost at the date at which one of the above conditions is met.
The costs associated with Borrowing costs free goods are classified as cost of sales.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take Share-based payments a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, At the Companys discretion and subject to the achievement of group and are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are personal performance criteria, employees including executive directors substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
of the Group receive performance remuneration in the form of share-based payments, whereby employees render their services in exchange for shares Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific or rights over shares equity-settled transactions under either the 2014 borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted Executive Incentive Plan EIP or the 2009 Management Incentive Plan from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
MIP and the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP noting that the last grant was issued in 2014.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments requires an expense to be recognised when the Group buys goods or services in exchange for shares or Dividend income rights over shares share-based payments or in exchange for other Income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights equivalent assets.
to receive payment have been established.
The cost of share-based payments transactions with employees is Leasing measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which the shareLeases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease based payments are granted.
The fair value of the EIP and MIP are substantially transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
determined based on the share price as at the date of grant discounted All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under by dividend yield.
operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the operating lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an The expected life used in the models applied to fair value the EIPs and incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line MIPs have been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for basis over the lease term.
the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations further details are given in Note 38.
In valuing share-based Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the payments, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum than conditions linked to the market price of the shares of Hikma lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a capital lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
130 130 Financial statements The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance 2.
Significant accounting policies continued sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset A new standard for leasing, IFRS 16, will come into effect on 1 January 2019. to be recovered.
We will adopt this new standard from that date.
Our assessment of the impact this will have on our business is ongoing and we will provide further Deferred tax is booked on unrealised inter-company profits on inventory updates in future reporting periods.
sales, to the extent they are expected to unwind, at the rate applicable to the distribution company.
Where there is a significant difference between Government grants the tax rates of the relevant companies, this creates deferred tax that can Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated materially impact the Groups effective tax rate.
In 2017, this had a 0.9% as deferred income and released to the consolidated income statement unfavourable impact on the effective tax rate 2016: 6.7% favourable.
over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Exceptional items and other adjustments Tax We use a number of non-IFRS measures to report and monitor the The Group provides for income tax according to the laws and regulations performance of our business.
Management uses these adjusted numbers prevailing in the countries where the Group operates.
Furthermore, the internally to measure our progress and for setting performance targets.
Group computes and records deferred tax assets and liabilities according We also present these numbers, alongside our reported results, to external to IAS 12 Income Taxes.
audiences to help them understand the underlying performance of our business.
Our adjusted numbers may be calculated differently The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax in the current period to other companies.
Adjusted measures are not substitutable for IFRS numbers and should The current tax incurred in the period is based on taxable profit for the not be considered superior to results presented in accordance with IFRS.
year and prior year movement accounted for in the current year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income Core results statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable Reported results represent the Groups overall performance.
However, or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never these results can include one-off or non-cash items that mask the taxable or deductible.
The Groups tax incurred is calculated using tax underlying performance of the Group.
To provide a more complete rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance picture of the Groups performance to external audiences, we provide, sheet date.
alongside our reported results, core results, which are a non-IFRS measure.
Reconciliation between core and reported results are Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on provided in our Financial Statements.
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the Our core results exclude the exceptional items and other adjustments computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance set out in Note 5 in the notes to the financial statements.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised Exceptional items to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against Exceptional items represent adjustments for costs and profits which which deductible temporary differences can reverse.
To the extent the management believes to be exceptional in nature by virtue of their size or temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition incidence, or have a distortive effect on current year earnings.
Such items other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in include costs associated with business combinations, one-off gains and a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting losses on disposal of business assets, reorganisation costs, write-down and profit, no deferred tax is provided.
impairment charges on assets and impairment of goodwill, net of any tax impact.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint Other adjustments ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the These include amortisation of intangibles excluding software and finance temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference cost resulted from remeasurement of contingent consideration, financial will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
liability and asset, net of any tax impact.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the Both exceptional items and other adjustments are excluded from period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is core results to improve comparability and consistency of our financial charged or credited in the consolidated income statement, except when statements which is consistent with our fellow companies.
We represent it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the and discuss our Group and segmental financials reconciled between deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
This presentation allows for full visibility and transparency of our financials so that shareholders are able to clearly Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally assess the performance factors of the Group.
enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
131 131 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued b Customer relationships: represent the value attributed to the 2.
Significant accounting policies continued long-term relationships held with existing customers at the date of acquisition and are amortised over their useful economic life.
The basis of determining exceptional items did not change from prior year.
c Product related intangibles: Intangible assets i Product files and under-licensed products recognised through An intangible asset is recognised if: acquisitions, and from development activities are amortised over their useful economic lives once the asset is ready for use.
it is identifiable it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are ii In process product files recognised on acquisition are amortised attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and over the useful economic life once the asset is ready for use.
the cost of the asset can be measured reliably d Trade names: are amortised over their useful lives from the date The probability of expected future economic benefits is assessed using of acquisition.
reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent managements best estimate of the set of economic conditions that will exist over the e Marketing rights: are amortised over their useful lives commencing useful life of the asset.
in the year in which the rights first generate sales.
Judgment is used to assess the degree of certainty attached to the flow f Purchased software: is amortised over the useful economic life when of future economic benefits that are attributable to the use of the asset the asset is ready for use.
on the basis of the evidence available at the time of initial recognition, giving greater weight to external evidence.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment have been stated at cost on acquisition Expenditures on research and development activities are charged and are depreciated on a straight-line basis except for land at the to the consolidated income statement, except only when the criteria following depreciation rates: for recognising an internally generated intangible asset is met, which is usually when approval from the relevant regulatory authority is Buildings 2% to 4% considered probable.
Machinery and equipment 5% to 33% Also, the Group engages with third party research and development Vehicles, fixtures and equipment 6% to 33% companies to develop products on its behalf.
Substantial payments made to such third parties to fund research and development efforts are A units of production method of depreciation is applied to operations in recognised as intangible assets if the capitalisation criteria for recognising their start-up phase, as this reflects the expected pattern of consumption an intangible asset is met, which typically is when licence fees and of the future economic benefits embodied in the assets.
When these milestone payments are made, all other payments are charged to assets are fully utilised, a straight-line method of depreciation is applied.
Projects under construction are not depreciated until construction Principal intangible assets are: has been completed and assets are considered ready for use.
a Goodwill: arising in a business combination and is recognised as Any additional costs that extend the useful life of property, plant and an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration Property, plant and equipment which are financed by leases giving Hikma transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree Pharmaceuticals PLC substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date fair value value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, and of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
depreciated in the same manner as other property, plant and equipment If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the over the shorter of the lease term or their useful life.
acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration Whenever the recoverable amount of an asset is impaired, the carrying transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree value is reduced to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss is and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest taken to the consolidated income statement.
Projects under construction in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in the are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation consolidated income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is when the assets are ready for their intended use.
included in the determination of the consolidated income statement The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is on disposal.
determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
132 132 Financial statements In the balance sheet, inventory is primarily valued at standard cost, which 2.
Significant accounting policies continued approximates to historical cost determined on a moving average basis, and this value is used to determine the cost of sales in the consolidated income Impairment of property, plant and equipment and statement.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the intangible assets ordinary course of business, less all estimated costs necessary to make the At the same time each year the Group carries out an impairment review sale.
Inventory related provisions are made for net realisable value lower for goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use.
At the than cost, slow moving and short dated inventory.
year end, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets that are subject for depreciation Cash and cash equivalents and amortisation to determine whether there is any indication that those Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with original assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the maturities of three months or less and are subject to an insignificant risk recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of of changes in value.
the impairment loss if any.
In consideration of the impairment review, the Group compares the carrying value of the asset to its recoverable amount.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows provisions of the instrument.
are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the Financial assets risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows The current accounting policy falls under IAS 39, while starting 1 January have not been adjusted.
2018, IFRS 9 will be implemented, replacing the current standard.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is Financial Assets within the Group are: estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
i Available for sale AFS financial assets An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated Listed shares held by the Group that are traded in an active market are income statement.
classified as being AFS and are stated at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the other comprehensive When an impairment loss for the asset, other than goodwill, subsequently income, with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount.
However, the on monetary assets, which are recognised directly in the consolidated increased carrying amount should not exceed the carrying amount that income statement.
When the investment is disposed of or is determined would have been determined had there been no impairment or cashto be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to the consolidated income recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
The Groups investments in unlisted shares that are not traded The Groups Goodwill and intangible assets are tested as follows: in an active market and the fair value of which cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, less a provision for any impairment loss.
If there is a Goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units.
objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred on unlisted These cash-generating units are tested for impairment annually, or shares that is stated at cost, the amount of impairment is measured as more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be the difference between the carrying amount of the financial asset and the impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated market rate of return for a similar financial asset, which is taken to the first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the consolidated income statement.
unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss ii Loans and receivables recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are The assumptions used in the impairment tests are set out in Note 14. classified as loans and receivables.
These receivables include the reimbursements of certain contingent payments in respect to milestones b Intangible assets that are not yet ready for use are not subject to loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective amortisation, and are tested annually for impairment or more frequently interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they might be applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables impaired.
Other intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the Inventories relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Purchased estimated future cash receipts including all fees and points paid or products are stated at acquisition cost including all additional attributable received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of The costs of own-manufactured products comprise of direct materials and, the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net where applicable, direct labour costs and any overheads that have been carrying amount on initial recognition.
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
133 133 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Note 31 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments 2.
Significant accounting policies continued used for hedging purposes.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments Cash flow hedge other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other Financial liabilities comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective Financial liabilities are classified in two categories: financial liabilities portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial liabilities and is determined at the Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and time of initial recognition.
accumulated in equity are reclassified to the consolidated income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the i Financial liabilities at FVTPL consolidated income statement, in the same line of the income The Group currently has two financial liabilities at FVTPL as below: statement as the recognised hedged item.
co-development and earn out payment agreements with third parties Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging where the Group earns milestone payments reflecting the achievement relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or of R&D and commercialisation milestones.
Those payments are exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any gain or loss recognised as financial liabilities once received recognised in other comprehensive income at that time is accumulated contingent consideration arising from West-Ward Columbus acquisition in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately represent contractual liabilities to make payments to third parties in the recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When a forecast form of milestone payments that are dependent on the achievement transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated of certain US FDA approval milestones: and royalty payments based on in equity is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
future sales of certain products that are currently under development Provisions Financial liabilities are revalued at the end of each reporting period to Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation represent the value of expected future cash outflows and the difference legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an is presented as finance cost income.
These financial liabilities are currently outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and a booked under other non-current liabilities and other current liabilities reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
in the consolidated balance sheet.
ii Other financial liabilities Equity instruments Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds at fair value, net of transaction costs.
received, net of direct issue costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost 3.
Critical accounting judgements and using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective interest method.
key sources of estimation uncertainty The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the in Note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are on initial recognition.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Derivative financial instruments The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the Groups exposure to basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
The principal derivative instruments which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the used by the Group are interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and option contracts.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial and future periods.
instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
The Groups Directors believe that the following accounting policies Hedge accounting that involve Directors judgements and estimates are the most critical The Group designates certain hedging instruments, in respect of interest to understanding and evaluating the Groups financial results.
rate and foreign currency risk, as cash flow hedges.
Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Revenue recognition Note 2 The Groups revenue recognition policies require Directors to make a At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the number of estimates, with the most significant relating to chargebacks, relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along product returns, rebates and price adjustments Note 2 which vary by with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various product arrangements and buying groups.
If the ultimate net selling price hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on cannot be reliably measured, revenue recognition is deferred until a reliable an ongoing basis, the Group tests whether the hedging instrument is measurement can be made.
The deferred revenue in respect of this is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the included in other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
134 134 Financial statements taking into consideration potential scenarios when determining 3.
Critical accounting judgements and forecast revenues key sources of estimation uncertainty continued determining whether a triggering event has occurred for intangible assets with finite lives.
In such case we first assess the qualitative factors Accounts receivable and bad debts Note 20 to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a finite Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating units asset is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether where they arise.
Credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test customer, based on a number of qualitative and quantitative factors related Contingent liabilities related to acquisitions Notes 27, 32 to the credit worthiness of a particular customer.
The Group is exposed to a variety of customers ranging from government-backed agencies and large The Group entered contractual liabilities in the form of milestone and private wholesalers to privately owned pharmacies, and the underlying local royalty payments, where the critical areas of judgement to those liabilities economic risks vary across the Group.
Typical credit terms in the US range are the probability assigned to reaching the success-based milestones from 30-90 days, in Europe 30-120 days, and in MENA 180-360 days.
Where and the managements estimate of future sales.
appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk by the use of trade If the future sales were 5% higher or lower, the fair value of the financial finance instruments such as letters of credit and insurance.
liability at profit or loss will increase decrease by $6 million.
The Group estimates, based on its historical experience, the level of If the probability assigned to reaching the success-based milestones debts that it believes will not be collected.
Such estimates are made were 5% higher or lower, the fair value of the financial liability at profit when collection of the full amount of the debt is no longer probable.
or loss will increase decrease by $5 million.
These estimates are based on a number of factors including specific customer issues and industry, economic and political conditions.
Co-development and earnout payment Bad debts are written-off when identified.
agreement Notes 27, 32 Goodwill and intangible assets Note 14 In connection with a co-development arrangement for certain products, the Group has a liability for future earnout payments where the critical The critical areas of judgement in relation to the valuation of goodwill area of judgment is managements estimate of future sales.
and intangible assets involve: If the above critical areas of judgement were 10% higher or lower, the Testing for impairment of goodwill and other assets included within fair value of the financial liability at profit or loss will increase decrease a CGU to establish the appropriate valuation of the CGU.
is used for comparison to the carrying value of the net assets of the CGU and requires the following key judgements: Taxation Notes 11, 17 establishing a five-year business plan for purposes of forecasting Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies free cash flows which involves forecasting appropriate sales and The following are the critical tax related judgements, apart from those operating expenses taking into considerations both internal and involving estimations which are dealt with separately below, that external information.
This involves judgements in evaluating current management have made in the process of applying the Groups and future market conditions, market size, estimated market share, accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the and competition amounts recognised in the financial statements: determining future capital expenditures and working capital requirements over the five-year period Recognition of deferred tax assets determining a discount rate that appropriately reflects the Groups The recognition of deferred tax assets is based on the current forecast weighted average cost of capital as adjusted for specific risk premiums of taxable profits arising in the jurisdiction in which the deferred tax asset reflecting risks inherent in achieving the projected future cash flows arises.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that there are determining appropriate terminal growth rate beyond the forecast period forecast taxable profits within a reasonable period.
The Group has a establishing a normalised terminal year to determine the terminal potential deferred tax asset of $278 million 2016: $361 million, of which year value, including normalised gross margins $135 million 2016: $172 million has been recognised.
This exercise is reviewed each year and, to the extent forecasts change, an adjustment Valuing intangible assets upon initial recognition as at the acquisition to the recognised deferred tax asset may be made.
date and testing for impairment Recognition of deferred tax assets is driven by the Groups ability to utilise establishing revenue forecasts including market size, estimated the deferred tax asset which is reliant on forecast taxable profits arising expected market share, number of competitors and net selling prices in the jurisdiction in which losses are incurred.
establishing the expected economic useful lives of the product-related intangibles Key sources of estimation uncertainty determining the sales and the allocation of marketing, R&D and The Group has the following key assumptions concerning the future, or other operating costs to the individual product-related intangibles other key sources of estimation uncertainty in the reporting period that calculating a contributory asset charge on working capital, fixed may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying assets and workforce amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
determining a discount rate and specific risk premiums for pipeline products, establishing the launch date and probability of a successful product approval are also critical judgements 135 135 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Legislative Change Risks 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key The Group makes substantial sales in the US market of products owned sources of estimation uncertainty continued by a UK Group company which also arranges for the product development and manufacture, both in the US and in other territories in which the Group Tax audit risk operates.
Whilst a reduction in the US federal tax rate beneficially impacts In common with most international organisations, the Group may the Groups effective tax rate, other aspects of the recently enacted US tax be subject to audit from revenue authorities from time to time.
Where reforms, such as base erosion and anti-avoidance tax and a restriction on an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable estimate interest deductions, could have a negative impact on the Groups effective of the outcome of the dispute can be made, management provides tax rate.
Continuing with the impact of changes in tax rules in the territories for its best estimate of the liability.
These estimates take into account in which we operate, we are experiencing an upward pressure on the the specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, Groups effective tax rate as a result of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time BEPS initiative of the OECD.
The Group continues to monitor the as new facts emerge and each dispute progresses.
Hikma continues to impact of such changes as they become clear and is taking any action invest in its financial systems to ensure the quality of the Groups financial necessary to help mitigate any adverse consequences to the extent data which reduces the risk of an adverse revenue authority audit.
Furthermore, Hikma continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments and audits.
Valuation Risk As part of a reorganisation following the West-Ward Columbus acquisition Where open issues exist, the ultimate liability for such matters may vary in the prior year, certain assets and liabilities were transferred intra-group from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of with external valuations obtained.
If these valuations are successfully negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation challenged by relevant tax authorities, it could adversely impact the tax proceedings.
Other Risks Sensitivity In addition to tax audits, the Group faces other potential tax risks that As at the balance sheet date, the Group held an aggregate provision in could affect the sustainability of the Groups effective tax rate.
The main the sum of $63 million in respect of liabilities likely to arise from the above risks are noted below.
Hikma regularly takes professional advice to ensure estimation uncertainties.
Hikma released $17 million in 2017 due to the the risks mentioned below are appropriately analysed and managed with statute of limitations but this was offset by new provisions of $24 million any ultimate potential liability being adequately provided.
In 2018, up to $20 million could be released on the same grounds.
If all areas of uncertainty were audited and all areas resulted Transfer Pricing Risk with an adverse outcome, management does not believe any material The transfer pricing risk can arise from a difference in view over the pricing additional tax would be payable beyond what is provided.
of cross-border, inter-company product sales and services and of sales of assets.
The standard by which most authorities, and the Group, assess the Contingent liabilities transfer price is whether it is set at arms length.
An upward adjustment by The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products the tax authority of one territory will not necessarily result in the downward and medical devices is highly regulated and the operations of market adjustment by the other territory, potentially leading to an increased participants, such as Hikma, are closely supervised by regulatory estimated tax cost through a mismatch of tax deductions and taxable authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the FDA and income, as well as a potential increase arising out of a rate arbitrage.
The the US Department of Justice.
As a result, the Group is subject to certain Group has considered the risk in detail and has provided for potential tax investigations by governmental agencies, as well as other various legal adjustments so does not believe that any adjustment will materially impact proceedings considered typical to its business relating to employment, the rate going forward.
product liability and commercial disputes.
Export Exemption Withdrawal Risk The Group benefits from a tax exemption in Jordan arising partly from the WTO approved Export Exemption that will be in force up until 31 December 2018.
Hikma does not believe that the impact of the future withdrawal of this exemption will materially impact the Groups tax rate in light of the alternative options available under Jordans existing domestic rules.
136 136 Financial statements 4. Business and geographical segments For management reporting purposes, the Group is organised into three principal operating divisions Injectables, Generics and Branded.
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its segmental information.
Operating profit, defined as segment result, is the principal measure used in the decision-making and resource allocation process of the chief operating decision maker, who is the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
Information regarding the Groups operating segments is reported below: 2017 2016 Exceptional items Exceptional items 2017 and other 2017 2016 and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported Injectables Results Note 5 results results Note 5 results Year ended 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 776 776 781 781 Cost of sales 296 296 276 276 Gross profit 480 480 505 505 Total operating expenses 165 22 187 165 28 193 Segment result 315 22 293 340 28 312 2017 2016 Exceptional items Exceptional items 2017 and other 2017 2016 and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported Generics Results Note 5 results results Note 5 results Year ended 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 615 615 604 604 Cost of sales 390 6 396 376 32 408 Gross profit 225 6 219 228 32 196 Total operating expenses 203 1,098 1,301 193 17 210 Segment result 22 1,104 1,082 35 49 14 The Generics segment includes the results of the West-Ward Columbus business.
2017 2016 Exceptional items Exceptional items 2017 and other 2017 2016 and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported Branded Results Note 5 results Results Note 5 results Year ended 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 536 536 556 556 Cost of sales 271 271 274 274 Gross profit 265 265 282 282 Total operating expenses 151 7 158 170 8 178 Segment result 114 7 107 112 8 104 2017 2016 Exceptional items Exceptional items 2017 and other 2017 2016 and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported Others results Note 5 results Results Note 5 results Year ended 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 9 9 9 9 Cost of sales 6 6 6 6 Gross profit 3 3 3 3 Total operating expenses 7 7 5 5 Segment result 4 4 2 2 Others mainly comprises of Arab Medical Containers LLC, International Pharmaceutical Research Center LLC, Hikma Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific FZ LLC, and the chemicals division of Hikma Pharmaceuticals LLC Jordan.
137 137 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business and geographical segments continued 2017 2016 Exceptional Exceptional 2017 items and other 2017 2016 items and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported Group Results Note 5 results results Note 5 results Year ended 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 1,936 1,936 1,950 1,950 Cost of sales 963 6 969 932 32 964 Gross profit 973 6 967 1,018 32 986 Total operating expense 526 1,127 1,653 533 53 586 Segment result 447 1,133 686 485 85 400 Unallocated expenses 61 61 66 32 98 Operating profit loss 386 1,133 747 419 117 302 Finance income 2 93 95 3 9 12 Finance expense 60 26 86 63 41 104 Profit loss before tax 328 1,066 738 359 149 210 Tax 72 29 101 80 28 52 Profit loss for the year 256 1,095 839 279 121 158 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 4 4 3 3 Equity holders of the parent 252 1,095 843 276 121 155 256 1,095 839 279 121 158 Unallocated corporate expenses mainly comprise of employee costs, third party professional fees, travel expenses, rent expenses and donations 2016 comprise of employee costs, third party professional fees, travel expenses, donations and acquisition-related expenses.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods services: 2017 2016 $m $m United States 1,201 1,211 Middle East and North Africa 630 641 Europe and Rest of the World 103 95 United Kingdom 2 3 1,936 1,950 The top selling markets were as below: 2017 2016 $m $m United States 1,201 1,211 Saudi Arabia 157 143 Algeria 106 115 1,464 1,469 Included in revenues arising from the Generics and Injectables segments are revenues of approximately $301 million 2016: $253 million which arose from the Groups largest customer which is located in the United States.
Exceptional items and other adjustments Exceptional items and other adjustments are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement to assist in the understanding of the Groups core performance.
2017 2016 Exceptional items $m $m Impairment of West-Ward Columbus goodwill 407 Impairment of product related intangible assets, software, property, plant and equipment and others 681 6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 17 10 Contingent consideration gain 29 Acquisition, integration and other costs 9 41 Gain from sale of assets, net 18 Inventory related adjustments 27 Release of contingent liability 4 Write-down of products related intangible assets 18 Exceptional items included in operating profit loss 1,085 80 US tax reform bill 49 Exceptional items included in profit loss 1,134 80 Other adjustments Intangible amortisation other than software 48 37 Remeasurement of contingent consideration, financial liability and asset, net 67 32 Exceptional items and other adjustments 1,115 149 Tax effect 20 28 Impact on profit loss for the year 1,095 121 In reference to the exceptional items and other adjustments policy in Note 2, the details are presented below: Exceptional items: Impairment of West-Ward Columbus goodwill relates to the unfavourable industry developments in the US Generics industry in the second half of 2017 and is included in other operating expenses Note 14 Impairment of product related intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and others, relates to the impairment of West-Ward Columbus other assets, including product rights, in process R&D, software and property, plant and equipment, and is included in other operating expenses Notes 14, 15.
In addition, impairment of other product related intangible assets of $4 million which is included in research and development expenses Note 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment mainly relates to the planned disposal of the Eatontown, NJ manufacturing facility which is included in other operating expenses Notes 8, 15 Contingent consideration gain represents an adjustment to a refund of the West-Ward Columbus purchase price, given certain regulatory conditions did not occur as expected by 24 December 2017 and is included in the other operating expenses Notes 8, 23 Acquisition, integration and other costs were incurred in relation to the acquisition of West-Ward Columbus and Eatontown planned disposal and are included in the overhead, general and administrative, sales and marketing, and research and development expenses US tax reform bill represents the estimated impact on the US deferred tax asset of lowering the US federal tax rate which was signed in December 2017, and is effective from 1 January 2018 Note 11 The details of impairment losses are presented below: 2017 $m West-Ward Columbus goodwill 407 West-Ward Columbus product related intangible assets 501 West-Ward Columbus software 12 West-Ward Columbus intangible assets 920 West-Ward Columbus property, plant and equipment 164 Total West-Ward Columbus impairment 1,084 Other property, plant and equipment 17 Other product related intangible assets Research and development 4 Total impairment 1,105 Total impairment of intangibles 924 Total impairment of property, plant and equipment 181 Total impairment 1,105 139 139 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Exceptional items and other adjustments continued In previous periods, exceptional items and other adjustments were related to the following: Impairment of product-related intangible assets was included within research and development expenses Acquisition, integration and other related costs were incurred in relation to the acquisition of West-Ward Columbus, which was completed on 29 February 2016.
Acquisition related expenses were included within the unallocated corporate expenses, while integration and other expenses were included within general and administrative expense and cost of sales respectively.
Acquisition related expenses mainly comprise of third party consulting services, legal and professional fees: and other costs represent severance and retention payments paid Impairment of property, plant and equipment related to the write-off of machinery and equipment as a result of previous acquisition, and was included within other operating expenses Gain from sale of assets related to the divestiture of certain products, and was included within other operating income Inventory-related adjustments reflected the amortisation of the fair value uplift of the inventory acquired as part of the West-Ward Columbus acquisition, and were included within cost of sales Release of contingent liability was due to not achieving certain performance-related milestones in respect of a previous acquisition, and was included within other operating income Write-down of product-related intangible assets related to the write-down of certain R&D elements associated with the co-development agreements entered into with third parties since 2011 and was included within research and development expenses Other adjustments: Remeasurement of contingent consideration, financial liability and asset represents the net difference resulting from the valuation of the liabilities and assets associated with the future contingent payments receivable in respect of the West-Ward Columbus acquisition and the financial liability in relation to the co-development earnout payment agreement Notes 18, 23, 27, 32.
The remeasurement is included in finance expense income.
Profit loss for the year Profit loss for the year has been arrived at after charging crediting: 2017 2016 Exceptional Exceptional 2017 items and other 2017 2016 items and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results Note 5 results results Note 5 results $m $m $m $m $m $m Net foreign exchange gains losses 3 3 21 21 Depreciation and impairment 77 181 258 68 10 78 Amortisation and impairment including software 11 972 983 7 43 50 Research and development other than staff costs 81 81 91 18 109 Inventories: Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 548 548 548 27 575 Write-down of inventories 58 58 68 68 Staff costs Note 7 477 8 485 461 4 465 The Group auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis was as below: 2017 2016 $m $m Audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.6 0.9 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.6 1.7 Total audit fees 2.2 2.6 Assurance services 0.2 0.2 Total audit and assurance fees 2.4 2.8 Tax advisory services 0.6 Total non-audit fees 0.6 Total fees 2.4 3.4 Assurance services relate to review procedures in respect to the interim financial information.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 78 to 81 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
Staff costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors was: 2017 2016 Number Number Production 5,017 4,904 Sales and marketing 2,123 2,147 General and administrative 1,047 992 Research and development 334 296 8,521 8,339 2017 2016 $m $m Their aggregate remuneration comprised: Wages, salaries and bonuses 321 320 Social security costs 30 29 Post-employment benefits 16 16 End of service indemnity 10 6 Share-based payments Note 38 22 22 Car and housing allowances 19 17 Health insurance 39 32 Other costs and employee benefits 28 23 485 465 8.
Other operating expense income 2017 2016 Exceptional Exceptional 2017 items and other 2017 2016 items and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported Results Note 5 results Results Note 5 results Other operating expense $m $m $m $m $m $m Inventory related provisions 58 58 68 68 Impairment loss 1,101 1,101 10 10 Loss from disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 3 Loss from disposal of intangible assets 1 1 Forex losses net 19 19 Others 4 4 61 1,101 1,162 92 10 102 2017 2016 Exceptional items Exceptional items 2017 and other 2017 2016 and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results Note 5 results results Note 5 results Other operating income $m $m $m $m $m $m Gain from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 1 Gain from disposal of intangible assets 1 18 19 Forex gain net 4 4 Others 10 29 39 10 4 14 15 29 44 11 22 33 Others: mainly includes contingent consideration gain Note 5 in addition to proceeds from legal claims.
141 141 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Finance income 2017 2016 Exceptional Exceptional 2017 items and other 2017 2016 items and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported Results Note 5 results Results Note 5 results $m $m $m $m $m $m Interest income 2 2 2 2 Remeasurement of contingent consideration, financial liability and asset, net 93 93 9 9 Other financial income 1 1 2 93 95 3 9 12 10.
Finance expense 2017 2016 Exceptional Exceptional 2017 items and other 2017 2016 items and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported Results Note 5 results Results Note 5 results $m $m $m $m $m $m Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 29 29 26 26 Interest on Eurobond 22 22 22 22 Remeasurement of contingent consideration, financial liability and asset, net 26 26 41 41 Other bank charges 8 8 13 13 Net foreign exchange loss 1 1 2 2 60 26 86 63 41 104 11.
Tax 2017 2016 Exceptional items Exceptional items 2017 and other 2017 2016 and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported Results Note 5 Results Results Note 5 Results $m $m $m $m $m $m Current tax: Foreign tax 50 20 30 143 28 115 Adjustment to prior year 2 2 Deferred tax Note 17 Current year 22 49 71 57 57 Adjustment to prior year 8 8 72 29 101 80 28 52 UK corporation tax is calculated at 19.25% 2016: 20.0% of the estimated assessable profit made in the UK for the year.
The Group incurred a tax expense of $101 million 2016: $52 million.
The effective tax credit charge rate is 13.7%, 2016: 24.8%.
The reduction in the effective tax rate largely reflects the impairment booked during the year.
Taxation for all jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdiction.
Tax continued The charge for the year can be reconciled to loss before tax per the consolidated income statement as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Profit loss before tax 738 210 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20.0% 142 42 Profits taxed at different rates 13 13 Permanent differences non-taxable income 13 17 non-deductible expenditures 6 13 adjustment on intercompany inventory 7 14 Other 7 1 Impairment of goodwill 78 State and local taxes 4 2 Temporary differences Tax losses and other deductible temporary differences for which no benefit is recognised 119 11 Tax rate changes US tax reform 49 Other 2 Change in provision for uncertain tax positions 7 5 Unremitted earnings 2 2 Prior year adjustments 6 Tax expense for the year 101 52 Profits taxed at different tax rates relates to profits arising in overseas jurisdictions where the tax rate differs from the UK statutory rate.
Permanent differences relate to items which are non-taxable or no tax relief is ever likely to be due.
The major items are differences in GAAP between IFRS and local territory GAAP, expenses and income disallowed where they are covered by statutory exemptions, foreign exchange differences in some territories and statutory reliefs such as R&D and manufacturing tax credits.
Temporary differences for which no benefit is recognised includes items on which it is not possible to book deferred tax and comprise mainly unrecognised tax losses.
The tax losses have mainly arisen from the impairment of the West-Ward Columbus.
Management has not recognised a benefit for the losses on the basis that there are insufficient forecasted taxable profits in the foreseeable future.
The change in provision for uncertain tax positions relates to the provisions the Group holds in the event of a revenue authority successfully taking an adverse view of the positions adopted by the Group in 2017 and primarily relates to a transfer pricing adjustment.
Prior year adjustments include differences between the tax liability recorded in the tax returns submitted for previous years and estimated tax provision reported in a prior periods financial statements.
This category also includes adjustments favourable or adverse in respect of uncertain tax positions following agreement of the tax returns with the relevant tax authorities.
US tax reform The impact of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 has been restricted to the reduction of the US deferred tax asset, as a result of the fall in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, by $49 million.
State Aid The Group is monitoring developments in relation to the EUs State Aid investigations, in particular, the EU Commissions announcement in October 2017 that it will be opening a State Aid investigation into the Group Financing Exemption of the UKs Controlled Foreign Company CFC legislation.
This exemption was introduced by the UK Government in 2013.
In common with other UK based international companies that have arrangements in line with the UKs current CFC legislation, Hikma is potentially affected by the outcome of this investigation.
The Group does not currently consider any provision is required in relation to EU State Aid.
As with all uncertain tax positions, the assessment of risk is subjective and involves significant management judgement.
The judgement is based on managements understanding of legislation, experience and professional advice taken on the matters.
Publication of tax strategy The new UK requirement for large UK businesses to publish their tax strategy came into effect in 2017.
Hikmas tax strategy has been made available on the Groups website.
143 143 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Dividends 2017 2016 $m $m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 of 22.0 cents 2015: 21.0 cents per share 53 51 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 11.0 cents 2016: 11.0 cents per share 26 26 79 77 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 is 23.0 cents 2016: 22.0 cents.
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2018 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Based on the number of shares in issue at 31 December 2017 240,678,894, the unrecognised liability is $55 million.
Earnings loss per share Earnings loss per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares.
The number of ordinary shares used for the basic and diluted calculations is shown in the table below.
Core basic earnings per share and Core diluted earnings per share are intended to highlight the Core results of the Group before exceptional items and other adjustments.
2017 2016 Exceptional items Exceptional items 2017 and other 2017 2016 and other 2016 Core adjustments Reported Core adjustments Reported results Note 5 results results Note 5 results $m $m $m $m $m $m Earnings loss for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share being net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 252 1,095 843 276 121 155 2017 2016 Number Number Number of shares m m Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 240 233 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: Share-based awards 1 1 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 241 234 2017 2017 2016 2016 Core Earnings Reported Earnings Core Earnings Reported Earnings per share per share per share per share Cents Cents Cents Cents Basic 105.0 351.3 118.5 66.5 Diluted 104.6 349.8 117.9 66.2 144 144 Financial statements 14.
Goodwill and Other intangible assets The changes in the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 are as follows: Product-related Other identified Goodwill intangibles Software intangibles Total $m $m $m $m $m Cost Balance at 1 January 2016 293 287 52 96 728 Additions 18 35 19 72 Acquisition of subsidiaries 420 743 1 1,164 Write-down Note 5 18 18 Disposals 5 1 6 Translation adjustments 30 19 1 8 58 Balance at 1 January 2017 683 1,006 87 106 1,882 Additions 7 31 1 39 Translation adjustments 7 2 4 13 Balance at 31 December 2017 690 1,015 118 111 1,934 Amortisation Balance at 1 January 2016 1 52 22 46 121 Charge for the year 30 7 7 44 Adjustments to beginning balance 2 2 Impairment Note 5 6 6 Translation adjustments 3 1 4 8 Balance at 1 January 2017 1 87 28 47 163 Charge for the year 41 11 7 59 Impairment Note 5 407 505 12 924 Translation adjustments 3 3 Balance at 31 December 2017 408 633 51 57 1,149 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 282 382 67 54 785 At 31 December 2016 682 919 59 59 1,719 Goodwill recognised as part of the West-Ward Columbus and EUP transactions in 2016.
In 2017, the Group recorded a total intangible impairment charge of $924 million related to goodwill of $407 million, product-related intangibles of $505 million and software of $12 million.
Of this amount $920 million relates to the impairment of the intangible assets related to West-Ward Columbus Note 5.
Of the $924 million impairment recorded, $35 million was recorded in the first half and the remaining $889 million was recorded in the second half.
Goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated at acquisition to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Branded 169 164 Injectables 113 111 West-Ward Columbus 407 Total 282 682 145 145 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Goodwill and Other intangible assets continued In accordance with the Group policy, goodwill is tested annually for impairment during the fourth quarter or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Details related to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the CGUs are as follows: Valuation basis Higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use Key assumptions Sales growth rates Profit margins Terminal growth rate Discount rate Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes Terminal growth rates based on managements estimate of future long-term average growth rates Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate Period of specific projected cash flows 5 years Terminal growth Pre-tax Terminal growth rate and discount rate rate perpetuity discount rate Branded 2% 18% Injectables 2% 13% West-Ward Columbus 2% 13% Considering the unfavourable industry developments impacting the Generics business during the second half of 2017, Hikma recorded an impairment charge of $407 million against the West-Ward Columbus goodwill.
West-Ward Columbus CGU: Over the second half of 2017, Hikma noted ongoing and difficult market conditions in the US generics market, driven primarily by: Pricing challenges due to customer consolidation.
Increasing generic approvals affecting the value in use of already marketed products and the potential of future launches.
Delays in generic approvals of more complex products.
As a result of these factors discussed, Hikma adjusted certain assumptions used in its cash flow projections to determine the value in use of the WestWard Columbus CGU.
More specifically, in comparison with previous periods, Hikma expects lower revenues and profitability from newly launched products as well as higher price erosion on its currently marketed portfolio.
The outlook for West-Ward Columbus revenue and profitability over the medium term is lower than previously expected.
In performing the impairment test for the West-Ward Columbus CGU, an additional impairment charge of $269 million above the amount of impairment of the goodwill and stand-alone IPR&D and Product Rights was required.
In accordance with IFRS, such excess was allocated pro rata to the remaining non-current asset of the CGU.
The impairment charge was the result comparing the estimated value in use of the CGU based on its discounted cash flow model to the carrying value of the CGU.
The key sensitivities in determining the value in use and the potential impact on the impairment charge were as follows: Change in total impairment Sensitivity factor Assumption in model Sensitivity Variant Low High Terminal Growth rate 2% per year into perpetuity 1% change 44 57 Discount rate 10.5% post tax, 12.9% pre-tax 1% change 83 106 Sales According to management projections of volumes 5% change in price and volumes 230 235 and prices on a product by product basis 5% change in price 133 125 5% change in volume 103 97 Terminal year margins Based on five-year average 5% change 192 188 Represents the low and high end of the range of change in the impairment charge based on the sensitivity variant.
Goodwill and Other intangible assets continued The discount rate is expected to reduce over time as any risk-premium associated with the acquisition should reduce.
Also, any change in expected product launch dates is likely to result in potential operational changes which could mitigate any potential impairment charges.
Other CGUs: The Group also performed its annual goodwill impairment test on a quantitative basis of the Branded and Injectables CGUs.
The Group conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment of each CGUs carrying value.
Although the Directors have concluded sufficient headroom exists for both of these CGUs, there is a reasonable possibility that changes to the key assumptions could result in impairment.
The most uncertain assumptions are sales growth and the discount rate.
We have performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions affecting the valuation for both the Branded and Injectables CGUs and have determined that sufficient headroom exists.
Specifically, an evaluation of the valuation of the CGU was made assuming an increase of 1% in the discount rate, or a 5% decline in the forecasted net sales, or a 5% decline in the gross margins in the terminal year, or a 1% decline in the terminal growth rate and in all cases sufficient headroom exists.
Whilst there is some uncertainty regarding the short-term impact of the political events in the MENA, the Group does not consider that the likelihood of impairment losses in the long-term has increased.
Headroom is defined as the excess of the higher of fair value and the value in use, compared to the carrying value of a CGU.
Other Intangible Assets Other intangible assets with a net book value of $503 million at 31 December 2017 2016: $1,037 million consists of In-Process Research and Development IPR&D of $223 million 2016: $547 million, product rights of $159 million 2016: $375 million and other intangible assets of $121 million 2016: $115 million.
The majority of the Groups product related intangible assets are marketed in the US region, whereby the carrying value of individually significant assets within the product-related intangibles are presented below: As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Generic Advair 138 306 Amount is lower than the stand-alone asset value of $206 million as a result of a $68 million allocation of the excess CGU impairment as discussed above.
IPR&D: During the first half of 2017, certain triggering events occurred and required the Group to perform tests for impairment.
Such events included continued pricing pressure and increased competition on a number of products and delays in product launches, resulting in a reduced forecast of future net cash inflows compared to previous forecasts.
The Group recorded impairment charges of $35 million for other intangible assets using a value-in-use model in the first half of 2017.
As of 31 December 2017, Hikma performed an analysis and valuation of the Generic Advair and the related contingent consideration using a discounted cash flow model based on a probability weighting of a number of different potential scenarios, including the expected launch date and the number of competitors at the time of launch.
As a result, a total impairment charge of $168 million was recorded in the second half of 2017 after considering the pro-rata allocation of the excess CGU impairment.
The key sensitivities in the valuation of this IPR&D asset and the impact on the valuation of the asset are as follows: Change in Generic Sensitivity Variant Advair base asset value Low end Base asset High End Sensitivity factor Assumption in model change value change Probability weighted average of Launch date different possibilities 1Q change 31 138 29 Sales According to management projections 5% change in price and volumes 34 138 37 of volumes and prices 5% change in price 18 138 19 5% change in volume 17 138 17 Discount rate 12.5% post tax 1% change 12 138 14 As of 31 December 2017, the Group performed its annual review of other IPR&D assets acquired as part of the West-Ward Columbus and Bedford acquisitions.
The result of this testing was a further impairment charge of $177 million for the West-Ward Columbus IPR&D.
The impairment charge was based upon updated forecasts and future development plans, compared with the carrying values.
The updated values were determined based upon detailed valuations employing the value in use approach.
The valuations reflect, among other things, the impact of changes to development programs, the projected development and regulatory time frames and the current competitive environment.
Any future change to these assumptions may result in further reduction to the estimated fair values of these IPR&D assets and could result in additional impairment charges.
We performed sensitivity analysis on the remaining $85 million of indefinite life IPR&D other than Generic Advair discussed above on the key assumptions affecting the valuation and have determined that sufficient headroom exists.
Specifically evaluated an increase of 1% in the discount rate, or a 5% decline is the forecasted net sales, or a 5% decline in the gross margins in the terminal year, or a 1% decline in the terminal growth rate and in all cases no additional impairment was necessary.
Based on the new estimates incorporating all of the above factors, an impairment charge of $345 million, including for Generic Advair above, was recorded in the second half of 2017 for IPR&D products.
147 147 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Goodwill and Other intangible assets continued Product Rights: Whenever impairment indicators are identified for definite life intangible assets, Hikma reconsiders the assets estimated life, calculates the undiscounted value of the assets or asset groups cash flows and compares such value against the assets or asset groups carrying amount.
If the carrying amount is greater, Hikma records an impairment loss for the excess of book value over valuation based on the discounted cash flows by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams.
The more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the estimate of the value in use of identifiable intangible assets include all assumptions associated with forecasting product profitability.
In the second half of 2017, due to the challenges impacted the US generics market, discussed above, an impairment charge of $123 million was recorded for product rights.
Other Intangible assets: Software: Software intangibles mainly represent the Enterprise Resource Planning solutions that are being implemented in different operations across the Group in addition to other software applications.
The software has an average estimated useful life that varies from three to ten years.
As noted above, $12 million of the West-Ward Columbus CGU impairment charge was allocated to software intangibles.
Customer relationships: Customer relationships represent the value attributed to existing direct customers that the Group acquired on the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The customer relationships have an average estimated useful life of 15 years 2016: 15 years.
Trade name: Trade names were mainly recognised on the acquisition of Hikma Germany GmbH Germany and Promopharm with estimated useful lives of ten years.
Marketing rights are amortised over their useful lives commencing in the year in which the rights are ready for use with estimated useful lives that varies from 2 to 10 years.
Other acquisition related: This mainly represents intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of Thymoorgan, which relate to its specialist manufacturing capabilities.
The estimated useful life is 12 years.
Amortisation of all intangible assets with finite useful lives is charged on a straight-line basis.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets of $5 million 2016: $19 million.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Machinery and Vehicles, fixtures Projects under buildings equipment and equipment construction Total Cost $m $m $m $m $m Balance at 1 January 2016 298 360 84 90 832 Additions 8 7 6 97 118 Acquisition of subsidiaries 180 144 9 125 458 Adjustments to opening balance 8 2 10 Disposals 3 1 1 5 Transfers 64 44 9 117 Translation adjustment 20 21 9 4 54 Balance at 1 January 2017 530 539 98 192 1,359 Additions 2 7 8 95 112 Adjustments to opening balance 2 1 1 4 Disposals 1 4 2 2 9 Transfers 52 64 7 123 Translation adjustment 7 12 2 2 23 Balance at 31 December 2017 592 619 114 164 1,489 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2016 70 198 53 4 325 Charge for the year 18 39 11 68 Adjustments to opening balance 7 3 10 Disposals 2 2 4 Impairment Note 5 10 10 Translation adjustment 4 10 5 19 Balance at 1 January 2017 84 242 57 7 390 Charge for the year 21 45 11 77 Adjustments to opening balance 2 1 1 4 Disposals 1 2 3 Impairment Note 5 86 84 5 6 181 Translation adjustment 3 8 1 12 Balance at 31 December 2017 196 379 73 13 661 Carrying amount At 31 December 2017 396 240 41 151 828 At 31 December 2016 446 297 41 185 969 Land is not subject to depreciation.
During the year the Group reported an impairment charge of $181 million, of which $164 million related to the West-Ward Columbus CGU impairment, in addition to $17 million resulted from the decision to consolidate certain manufacturing facilities in the US Notes 5, 14.
The net book value of the Groups property, plant and equipment includes an amount of $6 million 2016: $6 million in respect of assets held under finance lease.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had pledged property, plant and equipment having a carrying value of $11 million 2016: $42 million as collateral for various long-term loans.
This amount includes both specific items around the Group and the net property, plant and equipment of the Groups businesses in Germany, Tunisia and Egypt 2016: Portugal, Germany and Tunisia.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to $12 million 2016: $9 million.
149 149 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Investments in associates and joint ventures The Groups share in Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co Ltd China is 30.1% at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: 30.1% with an investment balance of $3 million at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: $4 million, The Groups share of the results of Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd is loss of $1 million 2016: $nil.
For the year ended 31 December 2017 For the year ended 31 December 2016 Joint Joint ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at 1 January 3 4 7 3 4 7 Share of loss 1 1 Balance at 31 December 3 3 6 3 4 7 During 2017, Hikma and MIDROC have agreed not to proceed with the HikmaCure joint venture and to liquidate it.
During the year, the Joint venture granted two loans of $2.3 million each to the Group and MIDROC.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups interests in associated companies is set out below: As at As at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 $m $m Total assets 16 15 Total liabilities 7 5 Net assets 9 10 Groups share of net assets of associates 3 3 For the year ended For the year ended 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 $m $m Total revenue 3 4 Net loss 1 Groups share of loss of associates 1 17.
Deferred tax Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been appropriately offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Deferred tax liabilities 49 15 Deferred tax assets 135 172 86 157 150 150 Financial statements 17.
Deferred tax continued The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting years.
Other short-term Deferred R&D temporary Share-based Tax losses costs differences Amortisable assets Fixed assets payments Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2016 4 1 74 18 13 1 49 Credit Charge to income 2 70 10 16 1 65 Acquisition of subsidiary 61 20 2 39 Exchange differences 3 5 2 4 At 1 January 2017 6 1 202 23 29 157 Credit Charge to income 3 71 7 4 71 At 31 December 2017 3 1 131 16 33 86 The other deferred taxes on short-term temporary differences primarily relate to charge backs and product returns in the US of $76 million 2016: $104 million and the unrealised intercompany profits of $17 million 2016: $25 million.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised on temporary differences totalling $770 million 2016: $189 million due to the unpredictability of the related future profit streams.
$578 million 2016: $167 million of these temporary differences relate to losses on which no deferred tax is recognised.
None of these losses are expected to expire.
We have recognised a deferred tax liability on temporary differences relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries of $4 million 2016: $2 million.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on the remaining unremitted earnings of $278 million 2016: $208 million, as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Financial and other non-current assets As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Price adjustment receivable 4 3 Available for sale investments 16 7 Other non-current asset 40 38 60 48 Price adjustment receivable represents the non-current portion of the contingent receivable in relation to the West-Ward Columbus acquisition Note 30, whereby as part of the acquisition, the Group will be reimbursed for certain contingent payments in respect of milestones and other conditions based on future events, the current portion of the price adjustment receivable is disclosed in Note 23.
During the year, the Group received $3 million reimbursement 2016: $82 million in cash.
Available for sale investments include investments in five venture capital companies through the Groups venture capital arms, Hikma International Ventures and Development LLC and Hikma Ventures Limited.
Other non-current assets represent mainly inventory expected to be sold after one year.
Inventories As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Finished goods 135 120 Work-in-progress 63 73 Raw and packing materials 234 229 Goods in transit 33 18 Spare parts 23 19 488 459 151 151 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Inventories continued Inventories are stated net of provision as follows: As at As at 31 December Translation 31 December 2016 Additions Utilisation adjustments 2017 $m $m $m $m $m Provisions against inventory 65 56 40 81 20.
Trade and other receivables As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Trade receivables 650 699 Prepayments 41 44 VAT and sales tax recoverable 13 14 Employee advances 3 2 707 759 The fair value of receivables is estimated to be equal to the carrying amount.
Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for chargebacks and doubtful debts as follows: As at As at 31 December Translation 31 December 2016 Additions Utilisation adjustments 2017 $m $m $m $m $m Chargebacks and other allowances 261 1,711 1,734 238 Doubtful debts 54 14 1 67 315 1,725 1,735 305 The following table provides a summary of the age of trade receivables: Past due Not past due on Between Between the reporting Less than 91 and 181 and Over one date 90 days 180 days 360 days year Impaired Total At 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Total trade receivables as at 31 December 2017 750 82 22 22 12 67 955 Related allowance for doubtful debts 67 67 750 82 22 22 12 888 Chargebacks and other allowances 238 Net receivables 650 Past due Not past due on Between Between the reporting Less than 91 and 181 and Over one date 90 days 180 days 360 days year Impaired Total At 31 December 2016 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Total trade receivables as at 31 December 2016 841 70 13 24 12 54 1,014 Related allowance for doubtful debts 54 54 841 70 13 24 12 960 Chargebacks and other allowances 261 Net receivables 699 The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of losses in respect of specific trade and other receivables where it is deemed that a receivable may not be recoverable.
When the receivable is deemed irrecoverable, the allowance account is written-off against the underlying receivable.
More details on the Groups policy for credit and concentration risk are provided in Note 30.
Collateralised and restricted cash Collateralised and restricted cash amounting to $4 million and mainly represents restricted cash retained against short-term bank transactions granted to the Groups Sudanese, Algerian and Egyptian operations 2016: Sudanese, Algerian and US operations of $5 million and a further of $2 million of restricted cash held in an escrow account related to the acquisition of EIMC United Pharmaceuticals.
Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Cash at banks and on hand 98 77 Time deposits 80 68 Money market deposits 49 10 227 155 Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less which is convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Other current assets As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Price adjustment receivable 61 34 Investment designated at fair value 22 20 Others 12 12 95 66 Price adjustment receivable: In respect to Note 18 this represents the current portion of the contingent receivable in relation to the West-Ward Columbus acquisition Note 30.
In addition, the Group was entitled to be reimbursed with $30 million from the seller of a previous acquisition if certain regulatory conditions existed as of 24 December 2017.
Investment designated at fair value: Represents the agreement the Group entered into with an asset management firm in 2015 to manage a $20 million portfolio of underlying debt instruments.
The investment comprises a portfolio of assets that are managed by an asset manager and is measured at fair value: any changes in fair value go through other comprehensive income.
This asset is classified as level 1 as it uses quoted prices in active markets.
Bank overdrafts and loans As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Bank overdrafts 10 10 Import and export financing 48 63 Short-term loans 1 Current portion of long-term loans Note 28 27 44 86 117 2017 2016 % % The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: Bank overdrafts 4.55 4.32 Bank loans including the non-current bank loans 3.65 3.26 Eurobond 4.25 4.25 Import and export financing 4.58 3.75 Import and export financing represents short-term financing for the ordinary trading activities of the Group.
153 153 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Trade payables 218 172 Accrued expenses 134 157 Other payables 13 14 365 343 The fair value of payables are estimated to be equal to the carrying amount.
Other payables mainly comprise of employees provident fund liability of $4 million 31 December 2016: $5 million, which mainly represents the outstanding contributions to the Hikma Pharmaceuticals Ltd Jordan retirement benefit plan, on which the fund receives 3.5% interest.
Other provisions Other provisions represent the end of service indemnity provisions for employees of certain Hikma Group subsidiaries.
This provision is calculated based on relevant laws in the countries where each Group company operates, in addition to their own policies.
Movements on the provision for end of service indemnity: 2017 2016 $m $m 1 January 27 28 Additions 3 1 Utilisation 4 2 At 31 December 26 27 27.
Other current liabilities As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Deferred revenue 13 Return and free goods provision 127 109 Co-development and earnout payment 3 4 Supply Manufacturing Agreement 9 Contingent consideration 93 Contingent liability 30 Obligations under finance leases 1 1 Indirect rebate and other allowances 67 49 Others 31 20 238 319 Return and free goods provision: The Group allows customers to return products within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date.
Free goods are issued to customers as sale incentives, reimbursement of agreed upon expenses incurred by the customer or as compensation for expired or returned goods.
The movement on return and free goods provision is presented below: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2016 Additions Utilisation 2017 $m $m $m $m Return and free goods provision 109 96 78 127 Co-development and earnout payment agreement: The liability mainly relates to the present value of future payments on a co-development and earnout agreement.
As part of this agreement, milestone payments dependent on successful clinical development of defined products are received by the Group.
In return of receiving such milestone payments, the Group has agreed to pay the contracting party a certain percentage of future sales of those products.
As at 31 December 2017, the liability associated with these earnout payments was adjusted to reflect the present value of the expected future cash outflows and the difference is presented as a finance expense income.
This balance represents the current portion of the liability and the non-current portion is disclosed in Note 32.
Other current liabilities continued Supply Manufacturing Agreement: As part of the acquisition of West-Ward Columbus, the Group entered into supply and manufacturing contracts with the seller, Boehringer Ingelheim.
Contingent consideration: This contingent consideration results from the acquisition accounting of West-Ward Columbus and represents future estimated consideration payable to the seller, which is in the form of milestones that are dependent on the achievement of certain US FDA approval targets.
As of 31 December 2017, the balance was moved to other non-current liabilities Note 32.
During the year, the Group paid a total of $nil 2016: $20 million.
Contingent liability: This contingent liability results from the acquisition accounting of West-Ward Columbus and represents a contractual obligation assumed at the time of the acquisition from a third party, which is in the form of royalty payments based on future sales of certain products that are currently under development.
During the year, the Group paid a total of $nil 2016: $10 million.
Long-term financial debts As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Long-term loans 201 270 Long-term borrowings Eurobond 496 495 Less: current portion of long-term loans Note 24 27 44 Long-term financial loans 670 721 Breakdown by maturity: Within one year 27 44 In the second year 139 29 In the third year 520 171 In the fourth year 4 519 In the fifth year 2 2 In the sixth year 5 697 765 Breakdown by currency: US Dollar 673 746 Euro 12 1 Algerian Dinar 2 Saudi Riyal 1 1 Egyptian Pound 9 13 Tunisian Dinar 2 2 697 765 The loans are held at amortised cost.
Long-term loans amounting to $2 million 31 December 2016: $3 million are secured on certain property, plant and equipment.
Included in the table above are the following major arrangements entered into by the Group: a A $500 million carrying value of $496 million, and fair value of $502 million 4.25% Eurobond due in April 2020 with the rating of BB Ba1.
The proceeds were used to refinance existing debt and to finance part of the cash consideration of the West-Ward Columbus acquisition.
b A syndicated revolving credit facility of $1,175 million was entered into on 27 October 2015.
The facility has an outstanding balance of $112 million at 31 December 2017 with a fair value of $112 million 2016: $145 million with a fair value of $145 million and a $1,063 million unused available limit 2016: $1,030.
The facility matures on 24 December 2019 and can be used for general corporate purposes.
c A nine-year $110 million loan from the International Finance Corporation was entered into on 19 December 2011.
The loan has an outstanding balance of $54 million at 31 December 2017 with a fair value of $54 million 2016: $74 million with a fair value of $73 million.
Quarterly equal repayments of the term loan commenced on 15 November 2013 and will continue until 15 August 2020.
The loan has been used to finance acquisitions in the MENA region and MENAs capital expenditure.
d A ten-year $150 million loan from the International Finance Corporation was entered into on 21 December 2017.
There was no utilisation of the loan as at 31 December 2017.
Quarterly equal repayments of the long-term loan will commence on 15 March 2021.
The loan will be used in the MENA region and in other World Bank countries of operations for its general corporate purposes.
155 155 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Obligations under finance leases Present value of minimum Minimum lease payments lease payments 2017 2016 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 2 2 1 1 In the second to fifth years inclusive 21 23 20 21 23 25 21 22 Less: Interest lease charges 2 3 Present value of minimum lease payments payable 21 22 The current portion of the obligations under finance leases is included within Other Current Liabilities Note 27.
It is the Groups policy to lease certain of its property, plant and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term is 5 years 2016: 5 years.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the average effective borrowing rate was between 1.87% and 14.00% 2016: between 1.88% and 14.00%.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives Credit and concentration of risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, and investments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful debts, chargebacks, without recourse discounts, and other allowances.
A provision for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event, which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The credit risk on liquid funds, investments and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
In line with local market practice, customers in the MENA region are offered relatively long payment terms compared to customers in Europe and the US.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, the Groups largest two customers in the MENA region represented 6.2% of Group revenue, 3.9% from one customer in Saudi Arabia, and 2.3% from a customer in Algeria.
At 31 December 2017, the amount of receivables due from all customers based in Saudi Arabia was $131 million 2016: $113 million, and in Algeria was $67 million 2016: $87 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, three key US wholesalers represented 44.3% of Group revenue 2016: 36.1%.
The amount of receivables due from all US customers at 31 December 2017 was $293 million 2016: $369 million.
The Group manages this risk through the implementation of stringent credit policies, procedures and certain credit insurance agreements.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise.
Credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer, based on a number of qualitative and quantitative factors related to the creditworthiness of a particular customer.
The Group is exposed to a variety of customers ranging from government-backed agencies and large private wholesalers to privately owned pharmacies, and the underlying local economic risks vary across the Group.
Typical credit terms in the US range from 30-90 days, in Europe 30-120 days, and in MENA 180-360 days.
Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit and insurance.
Market risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
The Groups objective is to reduce, where it is appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings and cash flow associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates.
Management actively monitors these exposures to manage the volatility relating to these exposures by entering into a variety of derivative financial instruments.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives continued Capital risk management The Group manages its capital and monitors its liquidity to have reasonable assurance that the Group will be able to continue as a going concern and deliver its growth strategy objectives, whilst reducing its cost of capital and maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity mix.
The Group regularly reviews the capital structure by considering the level of available capital and the short to medium-term strategic plans concerning future capital spend, as well as the need to meet dividends, banking covenants, and borrowing ratios.
The Group defines capital as equity plus net funds, which include bank overdrafts and loans Note 24, obligations under finance leases Note 29, longterm financial debts Note 28, net of cash and cash equivalents Note 22, and collateralised and restricted cash Note 21.
During the year, the Group continued its strategy of obtaining debt financing at both the Group level and at the operating entities level.
This enables the Group to borrow at competitive rates and to build relationships with local, regional and international banks and is therefore deemed to be the most effective means of raising finance, while maintaining the balance between borrowing cost, asset and liability management, and balance sheet currency risk management.
In order to monitor the available net funds, management reviews financial capital reports on a monthly basis, in addition to the continuous review by the Group treasury function.
At 31 December 2017, the Groups gearing Total debt equity was 51% 2016: 35%.
The increase in the Groups gearing ratio is due to the impact of full year 2017 losses, which reduces total equity with debt remaining fairly stable.
Cash management The Group manages the deployment of cash balances to predefined limits approved by the Board of Directors under the cash risk management policy.
Per the policy, the Groups excess cash should be held with highly rated global and regional financial institutions.
The aim of the policy is to mitigate the risk of holding cash in certain currencies, countries and financial institutions, through a specific threshold.
The Group reviews the policy periodically to meet Hikmas risk appetite.
Foreign exchange risk and currency risk The Group uses the US Dollar as its presentation currency and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange movements primarily in the Euro, Algerian Dinar, Sudanese Pound, Japanese Yen, Egyptian Pound, Tunisian Dinar and Moroccan Dirham.
Consequently, where possible, the Group enters into various contracts, which change in value as foreign exchange rates change, to hedge against the risk of movement in foreign denominated assets and liabilities.
Due to the lack of open currency markets, the Algerian Dinar, the Sudanese Pound, the Tunisian Dinar, the Moroccan Dirham and the Egyptian Pound cannot be hedged at reasonable cost.
Where possible, the Group uses financing facilities denominated in local currencies to mitigate the risks.
The Jordanian Dinar and the Saudi Riyal had no impact on the consolidated income statement as those currencies are pegged against the US Dollar.
Currency risks, as defined by IFRS 7, arise on account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is other than the functional currency of an entity and being of a monetary nature.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives continued Net foreign currency financial assets liabilities US Dollar Euro Algerian Dinar Japanese Yen Others 2017 $m $m $m $m $m Functional currency of entity: Jordanian Dinar 19 28 11 1 37 Euro Algerian Dinar 6 Saudi Riyal 39 3 4 Sudanese Pound 10 Egyptian Pound 35 1 Tunisian Dinar 2 2 Moroccan Dirham 1 5 Lebanese Pound 3 2 US Dollar 1 1 21 11 5 40 Others include Saudi Riyal and Jordanian Dinar.
Net foreign currency financial assets liabilities US Dollar Euro Algerian Dinar Japanese Yen Others 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Functional currency of entity: Jordanian Dinar 54 15 19 1 47 Euro 11 Algerian Dinar 66 Saudi Riyal 38 2 2 Sudanese Pound 13 Egyptian Pound 29 2 1 Tunisian Dinar 3 2 Moroccan Dirham 2 7 Lebanese Pound 2 US Dollar 12 8 34 18 19 4 55 Others include Saudi Riyal and Jordanian Dinar.
A sensitivity analysis based on a 10% movement in foreign exchange rates has no material impact on the Group results and Group statement of changes in equity.
The Group sets certain limits on liquid funds per currency other than the functional currency of the Group and per country.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives continued Interest rate risk The Group manages its exposure to interest rate risk by changing the proportion of debt that is floating by entering into interest rate swap agreements.
As at 31 December 2017 the Group had no outstanding interest rate swap agreements.
As at 31 December 2017 As at 31 December 2016 Fixed rate Floating rate Total Fixed rate Floating rate Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 515 262 777 514 346 860 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 129 129 78 78 An interest rate sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 100 basis point change in interest rates in all currencies from their levels at 31 December 2017, with all other variables held constant.
Based on the composition of the Groups debt portfolio as at 31 December 2017, a 1% increase decrease in interest rates would result in a $1 million 2016: $3 million increase decrease in finance cost being incurred per year and would not be material to the Group.
Fair Value of Financial assets and liabilities The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following financial assets liabilities are presented at their carrying value which approximates to their fair value: Cash and cash equivalents due to the short-term maturities of these financial instruments and given that generally they have negligible credit risk, management considers the carrying amounts to be not significantly different from their fair values Short-term loans and overdrafts approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments Long-term loans loans with variable rates are re-priced in response to any changes in market rates and so management considers the carrying amount to be not significantly different from their fair market value Loans with fixed rates relate to the $500 million Eurobond accounted through amortised cost.
The fair value is determined with reference to quoted price in an active market on the balance sheet date Note 28 Over the counter OTC derivative contracts may include forward, swap, and option contracts relating to interest rates or foreign currencies and are valued based on level 2 market prices and prevailing exchange rates at the balance sheet date Receivables and payables the fair values of receivables and payables are estimated to be equal to the respective carrying amounts Lease obligations are valued at the present value of the minimum lease payments Contingent liability results from the acquisition accounting of the West-Ward Columbus acquisition, which represents a contractual obligation assumed at the time of the acquisition from a third party, is measured at cost Note 27 Management classifies items that are recognised at fair value based on the level of inputs used in their fair value determination as described below: Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: Inputs that are observable for the asset or liability Level 3: Inputs that are not based on observable market data Financial assets and liabilities that fall under Level 1 are: Investment designated at fair value amounted to $22 million Note 23.
Financial assets and liabilities that fall under Level 3 are: Co-development and earnout payment agreement Note 27.
Contingent consideration receivable resulted from the acquisition accounting of the West-Ward Columbus acquisition Notes 18, 23, 27 and 32.
159 159 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives continued The following table presents the changes in Level 3 items for the period ended 31 December 2017 and the year ended 31 December 2016: Financial Financial Assets Liabilities $m $m Balance at 1 January 2016 25 Additions 1 5 Release 4 Received Settlement 82 23 Acquisition of subsidiaries 118 220 Remeasurement through income statement Note 5 2 35 Balance at 31 December 2016 39 258 Received Settlement 3 3 Remeasurement through income statement Note 5 2 65 Additions 29 Balance at 31 December 2017 67 190 Liquidity risk of assets liabilities Liquidity risk Less than One to More than one year five years five years Total 2017 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 227 227 Trade receivables 650 650 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 52 700 6 758 Interest-bearing overdrafts 10 10 Interest-bearing Import and Export loans 51 51 Interest bearing finance lease 2 21 23 Trade payables and accruals 352 352 410 721 6 317 Less than One to More than one year five years five years Total 2016 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 155 155 Trade receivables 699 699 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 73 787 860 Interest-bearing overdrafts 10 10 Interest-bearing Import and Export loans 64 64 Interest-bearing finance lease 2 22 24 Trade payables and accruals 329 329 376 809 433 As these are interest bearing liabilities, expected interest expense has been included in the balance.
Financial policies for risk management and their objectives continued The Group regularly monitors all cash, cash equivalents and debt to maintain liquidity needs, this is done by analysing debt headroom and expected cash flows.
The Group seeks to be proactive in its liquidity management to avoid any adverse liquidity effect.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had undrawn facilities of $1,534 million 2016: $1,289 million.
Of these facilities, $1,256 million 2016: $1,093 million were committed and the remainder were uncommitted.
Derivative financial instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts The Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows.
The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts in the management of its exchange rate exposures.
The instruments purchased are primarily denominated in the currencies of the Groups principal markets.
At the balance sheet date, the Group was not committed to any forward foreign exchange contracts 2016: $6 million foreign exchange forward contract JPY.
Interest rate swaps The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its bank borrowings when necessary.
There are no outstanding interest rate swaps as at 31 December 2017 2016: $nil.
Other non-current liabilities As at 31 December 2017 2016 $m $m Contingent consideration Note 27 178 146 Contingent liability Note 27 109 80 Supply Manufacturing Agreement Note 27 25 33 Co-development and earnout payment Note 27 8 14 Others 4 4 324 277 33.
Share capital Issued and fully paid included in shareholders equity: 2017 2016 Number $m Number $m At 1 January 239,954,532 40 199,385,118 35 Issued during the year ordinary shares of 10p each 724,362 40,569,414 5 At 31 December 240,678,894 40 239,954,532 40 161 161 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Non-controlling interests 2017 2016 $m $m At 1 January 15 15 Share of profit 4 3 Dividends paid 2 1 Currency translation loss 1 3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2 1 At 31 December 14 15 35.
Own shares The Employee Benefit Trust EBT of Hikma holds 40,831 2016: 40,831 Ordinary Shares in the Company.
The trustee of the EBT is Link Market Services Trustee Limited, an independent trustee.
The market value of the Ordinary Shares held in the EBT at 31 December 2017 was $0.6 million 2016: $1.2 million.
The book value of the retained own shares at 31 December 2017 are $0.6 million 2016: $0.6 million.
The Ordinary Shares held in the EBT will be used to satisfy long-term commitments arising from the employee share plans operated by the Company.
Net cash generated from operating activities 2017 2016 $m $m Loss profit before tax 738 210 Adjustments for: Depreciation, amortisation, impairment, and write-down of: Property, plant and equipment 258 78 Intangible assets 983 68 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 Gain on disposal of intangible assets 18 Movement on provisions 1 1 Cost of equity-settled employee share scheme 22 22 Finance income 95 12 Interest and bank charges 86 102 Foreign exchange gain loss 4 19 Release of contingent liability 4 Cash flow before working capital 514 464 Change in trade and other receivables 52 128 Change in other current assets 28 1 Change in inventories 31 32 Change in trade and other payables 15 46 Change in other current liabilities 31 15 Change in other non-current liabilities 7 3 Cash generated by operations 546 369 162 162 Financial statements 37.
Contingent liabilities Contingent liability A contingent liability existed at the balance sheet date in respect of external guarantees and letters of credit totalling $47 million 31 December 2016: $49 million, arising in the normal course of business.
No provision for these liabilities has been made in these financial statements.
In 2017 the Group received two subpoenas from a US state attorney general and the US Department of Justice, each requesting information related to certain products, pricing and related communications.
Management do not believe sufficient evidence exists to make any provision for this currently.
Share-based payments Executive Incentive Plan The 2014 Executive Incentive Plan EIP was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The EIP is a combined cash bonus element A, deferred shares element B and restricted shares element C scheme.
Under the EIP, the Company makes grants of conditional awards and $nil cost options under elements B and C to the executive directors and senior executives of the Group.
Awards under all elements are dependent on the achievement of individual and Group KPIs over one year prior to grant.
The shares awarded under element B are not released for a period of two years during which they are subject to a forfeiture condition.
The shares awarded under element C are not released for a period of three years, but are not subject to a forfeiture condition.
Members of the Executive Committee must retain 50% of the shares received from elements B and C for a period of five years from the date of grant.
2017 grants 2016 grants 2016 grants 2015 grants 2015 grants 13 Apr 11 May 17 Mar 15 May 10 Apr Total Year 2017 Number Number Number Number Number Number Beginning Balance 165,553 448,875 118,000 338,808 1,071,236 Granted during the year 613,269 613,269 Exercised during the year 3,578 71,000 224,378 298,956 Expired during the year 4,893 12,396 17,289 Outstanding at 31 December 608,376 149,579 448,875 47,000 114,430 1,368,260 Exercisable at 31 December 17,386 17,386 2016 grants 2016 grants 2015 grants 2015 grants 11 May 17 Mar 15 May 10 Apr Total Year 2016 Number Number Number Number Number Beginning Balance 118,000 338,808 456,808 Granted during the year 165,553 448,875 614,428 Outstanding at 31 December 165,553 448,875 118,000 338,808 1,071,236 The cost of the EIP of $16 million 2016: $13 million has been recorded in the consolidated income statement as part of general and administrative expenses.
The fair value per share is the face value of shares on the date of grant.
163 163 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38.
Share-based payments continued Management Incentive Plan The 2009 Management Incentive Plan MIP was approved by shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, whereby shareholders consented to the Company satisfying awards under the MIP from newly issued shares.
Under the MIP, the Company makes grants of conditional awards to management across the Group below senior management level.
Awards are dependent on the achievement of individual and Group KPIs over one year and are then subject to a two-year holding period.
The 2009 MIP awards were made at the start of the KPI performance period, whereas the 2011 awards and future awards will be made at the end of the KPI performance period.
Details of the grants under the plan are shown below: 2017 grants 2016 grants 2015 grants 2014 grants 2013 grants 19 May 11 May 14 May 11 Jun 17 May Total Year 2017 Number Number Number Number Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 192,725 132,442 12,632 9,973 347,772 Granted during the year 273,724 273,724 Exercised during the year 121,879 4,483 5,186 131,548 Expired during the year 14,625 19,000 33,625 Outstanding at 31 December 259,099 173,725 10,563 8,149 4,787 456,323 2016 grants 2015 grants 2014 grants 2013 grants 11 May 14 May 11 Jun 17 May Total Year 2016 Number Number Number Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 140,594 214,009 9,973 364,576 Granted during the year 196,373 196,373 Exercised during the year 190,400 190,400 Expired during the year 3,648 8,152 10,977 22,777 Outstanding at 31 December 192,725 132,442 12,632 9,973 347,772 The cost of the MIP of $6 million 2016: $6 million has been recorded in the consolidated income statement as part of general and administrative expenses.
The fair value per share is the face value of shares on the date of grant less the present value of dividends expected to be paid during this period.
Valuation is based on Black-Scholes methodology for nil-cost options.
Share-based payments continued Long-Term Incentive Plan The 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting and the last grant was made under the LTIP during the year ended 31 December 2014.
The LTIP is settled by equity instruments, with 15 separate grant dates.
Under the LTIP, conditional awards and $nil cost options were granted which vest after three years subject to total shareholder return TSR, revenue growth, earnings per share and return on invested capital performance conditions.
The TSR condition measures the Groups TSR relative to a comparator group of other pharmaceutical companies.
The TSR vesting schedule dictates that 20% of awards vest for median performance and 100% for upper quartile performance, with pro-rata vesting in between these points.
No awards vest for performance, which is below the median.
The threshold and maximum performance requirements for the revenue growth, earnings per share and return on invested capital performance conditions are detailed in page 99 of the remuneration report and are measured against the audited financial statements for the closest three-year financial period to the grant and vesting dates.
The estimated fair value of each share option granted in the LTIP was calculated by applying the Monte Carlo simulation methodology.
For awards made from 2011, 50% of the award is subject to a TSR performance condition which was valued by applying the Monte Carlo simulation methodology, the remaining 50% of the award is subject to financial metrics which are valued by applying the Black-Scholes model.
For further details see the remuneration committee report.
The exercise price of the share award is $nil.
165 165 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38.
Operating lease arrangements 2017 2016 $m $m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in profit or loss for the year 9 7 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2017 2016 $m $m Within one year 9 8 In two to five years inclusive 22 23 After five years 13 18 44 49 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties.
Leases are negotiated for a term of one to eight years.
Related parties Transactions between Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Hikma and its subsidiaries together, the Group have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates, joint ventures and other related parties are disclosed below.
Trading transactions: During the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties: Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH BI : is a related party of Hikma because BI owns 16.6% 2016: 16.7% of the share capital of Hikma, controls 11.7% 2016: 11.7% of the voting capital of Hikma, has the right to appoint a director of Hikma and a senior executive of BI holds a directorship of Hikma.
During the year, the Group acquired six products from BI which amounted to an aggregate consideration of $3.0 million, the Group total sales to BI amounted to $79.1 million 2016: $90.1 million and the Group total purchases from BI amounted to $10.6 million 2016: $10.3 million.
As at the year end, the amount owed from BI to the Group was $43.8 million 2016: $45.2 million.
Additionally, balances arising from the acquisition of West-Ward Columbus from BI relating to contingent consideration are disclosed in Notes 18, 23, 27, 30 and 32.
Capital Bank, Jordan: is a related party of Hikma because one director of Hikma is the founder and former Chief Executive Officer of Capital Bank.
At the year end, total cash balance at Capital Bank was $11.8 million 2016: $11.3 million and utilisation of facilities granted by Capital Bank to the Group amounted to $nil 2016: $8.3 million.
The interest expense income is within market rate.
Darhold Limited Darhold : is a related party of Hikma because three directors of Hikma jointly constitute the majority of directors and shareholders with immediate family members in Darhold and because Darhold owns 24.93% 2016: 25.00% of the share and voting capital of Hikma.
Other than dividends as paid to all shareholders, there were no transactions between the Group and Darhold Limited during the year.
HikmaCure Limited HikmaCure : is a related party of Hikma because HikmaCure is a 50:50 joint venture JV with MIDROC Pharmaceuticals Limited MIDROC.
Hikma and MIDROC have invested in HikmaCure in equal proportions of $2.5 million each in cash 2016: $2.5 million.
During 2017 Hikma and MIDROC have agreed not to proceed with and to liquidate the venture.
During the year, HikmaCure granted two loans of $2.3 million each to the Group and MIDROC.
HMS Holdings SAL HMS : is a related party of Hikma because HMS is owned by the family of two directors of Hikma.
Other than dividends as paid to all shareholders, there were no transactions between the Group and HMS during the year.
Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd Haosun : is a related party of Hikma because the Group holds a non-controlling interest of 30.1% 2016: 30.1% in Haosun.
During 2017, total purchases from Haosun were $1.4 million 2016: $0.4 million.
At 31 December 2017, the amount owed from Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical to the Group amounted to $1.6 million 2016: $1.7 million.
On 13 February 2018, Hikma acquired an additional stake in Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd bringing the total ownership to 49% Note 43.
Labatec Pharma Labatec : is a related party of the Group because Labatec is owned by the family of two directors of Hikma.
During 2017, total Group sales to Labatec amounted to $1.8 million 2016: $1.4 million.
As at the year end, the amount owed by Labatec to the Group was $0.3 million 2016: $0.3 million.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the key management personnel comprising the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and certain of senior management as set out in the Directors Report of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of the individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 86 to 108.
2017 2016 $m $m Short-term employee benefits 11.0 14.2 Share-based payments 10.2 11.5 Post-employment benefits 10.3 Other benefits 0.6 0.3 32.1 26.0 167 167 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 41.
Subsidiaries, associate and joint venture The subsidiaries, associate and joint venture of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC are as follows: Owned by the Group Owned by PLC the Company Ownership % Ownership % Ownership % Ownership % Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Incorporated At 31 December At 31 December At 31 December At 31 December Companys name in Address of the registered office 2017 2016 2017 2016 Al Jazeera Pharmaceutical Industry S. A. R. L Algeria Zone dActivit, Proprit N 379 Section 99% 99% N 04 Staoueli, Algeria Algerie Industrie Mediterraneene Du Algeria Zone dActivit 16 15 Staoueli, Algeria 91% 91% Medicament S. A. R. L. Hikma Pharma Algeria S. A. R. L. Algeria Zone dActivit 16 15 Staoueli, Algeria 100% 100% SPA Al Dar Al Arabia pour la Fabrication fide Algeria Zone dActivit El Boustane N 78, Sidi 100% 100% Mdicaments Abdellah, Al Rahmania, Algeria Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co Ltd China No 20 Juxian Road, Gedian Economic 30% 30% and Technology Development Area, Hubei, China Hikma for Importation Co. LLC Egypt 12 El-Esraa Street, El-Mohandeseen, 99% 99% Lebanon Square, Giza, Egypt Hikma Pharma S. A. E Egypt 12 El-Esraa Street, El-Mohandeseen, 100% 100% Lebanon Square, Giza, Egypt Hikma Pharmaceuticals Industries S. A. E Egypt 16 Ahmed Hosny Street, First Zone, 100% 100% Naser City, Cairo, Egypt Hikma Specialised Pharmaceuticals S. A. E Egypt 10 D, 11 D, Industrial Zone, Badr City, 98% 98% Cairo, Egypt HikmaCure Pharmaceuticals Share Ethiopia Addis Ababa, Bole Sub City, Kebele 16, 50% 50% Company Woreda, Ethiopia Hikma Pharma GmbH Germany Lochhamer Strasse 13, 82152, 100% 100% Martinsried, Germany Thymoorgan GmbH Germany Schiffgraben 23, fide-38690, Goslar, OT 100% 100% Vienenburg, Deutchland Thymoorgan Pharmazie GmbH Germany Schiffgraben 23, fide-38690, Goslar, OT 100% 100% Vienenburg, Deutchland Hikma Finance Ireland Limited Ireland 2 Grand Canal Square, Grand Canal 100% 100% Harbour, Dublin 2, Ireland Hikma Italia S. p. A Italy Viale Certosa 10, 27100, Pavia, Italy 100% 100% Hikma Pharma Limited Jersey 47 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 0BD, Jersey 100% 100% 100% 100% Arab Medical Containers LLC Jordan P. O.
Box 80, Sahab Industrial Estate, 100% 100% 11512, Jordan Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing PSC Jordan Al Buhaira Salt, P. O.
Box 42, Jordan 100% 100% Future Pharmaceutical Industries LLC Jordan P. O.
Box 80, Sahab Industrial Estate, 100% 100% 11512, Jordan Hikma International Pharmaceuticals LLC Jordan 122 Queen Zain AlSharaf Street, Bayader 100% 100% Exempt Wadi Al-Seer, Amman, Jordan Hikma International Ventures and Jordan Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Industrial Area, 100% 100% Development LLC Exempt Saleem Bin Al-Hareth Street, Building 21, P. O.
Box 182400, Amman, 11118, Jordan Hikma Investment LLC Jordan Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Industrial Area, 100% 100% Saleem Bin Al-Hareth Street, Building 21, P. O.
Box 182400, Amman, 11118, Jordan Hikma Pharmaceuticals LLC Jordan Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Industrial Area, 100% 100% Saleem Bin Al-Hareth Street, Building 21, P. O.
Box 182400, Amman, 11118, Jordan Hikma United Renewable Energy Jordan Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Industrial Area, 100% 100% Saleem Bin Al-Hareth Street, Building 21, P. O.
Box 182400, Amman, 11118, Jordan International Pharmaceutical Research Jordan P. O.
Subsidiaries, associate and joint venture continued Owned by the Group Owned by PLC the Company Ownership % Ownership % Ownership % Ownership % Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Incorporated At 31 December At 31 December At 31 December At 31 December Companys name in Address of the registered office 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sofia Travel and Tourism Jordan Mustafa Semreen Complex Building No.
100% 100% 29, Jamal Qaytoqa Street, Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Amman, Jordan Specialised for Pharmaceutical Industries Jordan Bayader Wadi Al-Seer, Industrial Area, 100% 100% LLC Saleem Bin Al-Hareth Street, Building 21, P. O.
Box 182400, Amman, 11118, Jordan Hikma CIS JSC Kazakhstan Apt.
1, House 7, Building-28, Keremet 100% 100% Microdistrict, Bostandykskiy District, Almaty, A15C8X2, Kazakhstan Hikma Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd. Almaty Kazakhstan Apt.
1, House 7, Building-28, Keremet 100% 100% Kazakhtan Representative Office Microdistrict, Bostandykskiy District, Almaty, A15C8X2, Kazakhstan Hikma Liban S. A. R. L. Lebanon Saria Building, Ground Floor, Embassies 67% 67% Street, Bir Hassan, Beirut, Lebanon Hikma Finance Luxembourg SARL Luxembourg 20 rue des Peupliers, L-2328 100% 100% Luxembourg Socit fide Promotion Pharmaceutique Morocco Zone Industrielle du Sahel, Rue N. 7, Had 94% 94% du Maghreb Promopharm S. A. Soualem, Province fide Settat, Morocco Hikma International N. V Netherlands Luna Arena, Herikerberweg 238, 1101 CM, 100% 100% 100% 100% Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands Hikma Pharma Benelux B. V Netherlands Nieuwe Steen 36, 1625 HV, Hoorn, 100% 100% Netherlands Eurohealth N. V Netherlands Pareraweg 45, P. O.
Box 4914, Curacao, 100% 100% Antilles Netherlands Antilles Hikma Farmaceutica, Portugal S. A Portugal Estrada Rio Da Mo no.
8, 8a, 8B- 100% 100% Fervenca, 2705-906, Terugem SNT, Portugal Lifotec Farmaceutica S. G. P. S S. A Portugal Estrada Nacional 9, Fervena, So Joo 100% 100% das Lampas e Terrugem, Sintra, Portugal Al Jazeerah Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd Saudi Arabia Riyadh Gallery, Olaya Street, P. O.
Box 100% 100% 52.5% 52.5% 106229, Riyadh-11666, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Hikma Slovakia s. r. o Slovakia Seberniho 1, 821 03 Bratislava, Slovakia 100% 100% Pharma Ixir Co. Ltd Sudan Riyad Area, Obied Khatim Street, 51% 51% P. O.
420, Khartoum, Sudan Savannah Pharmaceutical Industries Co. Ltd Sudan Riyad Area, Obied Khatim Street, 100% 100% P. O.
420, Khartoum, Sudan Eurohealth International S. A. R. L. Switzerland Rue des Battoirs 7, 1205 Genve, 100% 100% 100% 100% Switzerland APM Tunisie S. A. R. L. Tunisia Impasse N4-Energie Solaire, Zone 99% 99% Industrielle La Charguia 1, TunisCarthage, 2035, Tunisia STE DIndustriee Pharmaceutique Ibn Al Tunisia 11 Rue 8610 Charguia 1-2035 Tunis- 100% 66% Baytar Carthage, Tunisia STE Hikma Pharma Tunisie Tunisia Impasse N4-Energie Solaire, Zone 100% 100% Industrielle La Charguia 1, TunisCarthage 2035, Tunisia STE Medicef Tunisia Avenue Habib Bourguiba, Sidi Thabet, 100% 100% 2020 Ariana, Tunisia Hikma Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific United Arab Premises 202-204, Floor 2, Building 26, 100% 100% 100% 100% FZ-LLC Emirates Dubai, United Arab Emirates 169 169 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 41.
Subsidiaries, associate and joint venture continued Owned by the Group Owned by PLC the Company Ownership% Ownership % Ownership % Ownership % Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Incorporated At 31 December At 31 December At 31 December At 31 December Companys name in Address of the registered office 2017 2016 2017 2016 Hikma International Trading Limited United Arab The Oberoi Centre, Level 15, 100% 100% 100% 100% Emirates Business Bay, P. O.
Box 36282, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Hikma MENA Holdings Limited United Arab The Oberoi Centre, Level 15, Business 100% 100% 100% 100% Emirates Bay, P. O.
Box 36282, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Hikma Maple Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Hikma Acquisitions UK Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Hikma Holdings UK Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Hikma UK Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Hikma Ventures Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom HikmaCure Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 50% 50% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom West-Ward Holdings Limited United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom West-Ward Pharmaceuticals International United 1 New Burlington Place, London, W1S 100% 100% Limited Kingdom 2HR, United Kingdom Bedford Property Holdings, Inc. United States Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange 100% 100% Street, Wilmington, New Castle, fide 19802, United States Eurohealth U. S. A. Inc United States Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange 100% 100% Street, Wilmington, New Castle, fide 19802, United States Hikma Americas, Inc. United States C T Corporation System, 800 S Gay 100% 100% Street, Suite Knoxville TN 2021 37929- 9710, United States Roxane Laboratories, Inc. United States Corporation Trust Company of Nevada 100% 100% 701 S Carson Street Suite 200, Carson City, NV 89701, United States West-Ward Columbus Inc. United States Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange 100% 100% Street, Wilmington, New Castle fide 19802, United States West-Ward Injectables, Inc. United States Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange 100% 100% Street, Wilmington, New Castle fide 19802, United States West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp United States Corporation Trust Center 1209 Orange 100% 100% Street, Wilmington, New Castle fide 19802, United States The investments in subsidiaries are all stated at cost in PLC the Company, while accounted for using the equity method in the Group.
The investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in the Group Note 16.
The Groups subsidiaries principally operate in trading pharmaceuticals products and associated goods and services.
Companies marked were incorporated as holding companies.
Defined contribution retirement benefit plan Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC has defined contribution retirement plans in five of its subsidiaries: Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC United Kingdom, Hikma Pharmaceuticals LLC Jordan, Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing PSC, West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp and West-Ward Columbus Inc.
The details of each contribution plan are as follows: Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC United Kingdom The Group currently has a defined contribution pension plan available for staff working in the United Kingdom whereby the Group contributes 10% of basic salary.
Employees are immediately entitled to 100% of the Groups contributions.
The Groups contributions for the year ended 31 December 2017 were $0.2 million 2016: $0.2 million.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals LLC Jordan The Group currently has an employee savings plan whereby the Group fully matches employees contributions, which are fixed at 10% up to 2011, the level was 5% of basic salary.
Employees are entitled to 30% of the Group contributions after three years of employment with the Company and an additional 10% for each subsequent year.
Employees are entitled to 100% of the Company contributions after ten years of employment with the Company.
The Groups contributions for the year ended 31 December 2017 were $3 million 2016: $2 million.
Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing PSC Jordan The Group currently has an employee saving plan whereby the employees contribute at 10%, and the company at 15% of basic salary.
After three years of employment with the Company, employees are entitled to 100% of the Company contributions.
The Groups contributions for the year ended 31 December 2017 were $1 million 2016: $1 million.
West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp: 401 k salary saving plan West-Ward Pharmaceutical Corp. has a 401 kdefined contribution Plan, which allows all eligible employees to defer a portion of their income through contributions to the Plan.
All employees not covered by any collective bargaining agreement are eligible after being employed for 90 days.
Employees can defer up to 95% of their gross salary into the Plan, not to exceed $18,000 2016: $18,000, not including catch-up contributions available to eligible employees as outlined by the Internal Revenue Service.
The Company matches 40% of the employees eligible contribution.
Employer contributions vest after three years of service.
Employees are considered to have completed one year of service for the purposes of vesting upon the completion of 1,000 hours of service at any time during a Plan year.
Employer contributions to the Plan for the year ended 31 December 2017 were $3 million 2016: $3 million.
The assets of both retirement Plans are held separately from those of the Group.
The only obligation of the Group with respect to both retirement benefit Plans is to make specified contributions.
West-Ward Columbus Pharmaceuticals Inc: 401 k salary saving plan West-Ward Columbus Pharmaceutical Corp has a 401 kdefined contribution Plan, which allows all eligible employees to defer a portion of their income through contributions to the Plan.
The Company matches 100% on first 5% of the employees eligible contribution.
Employer contributions vest after six years of service.
Employer contributions to the Plan for the year ended 31 December 2017 were $8 million 2016: $8 million.
Subsequent Events On 13 February 2018, Hikma acquired an additional stake in Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd bringing the total ownership to 49%.
