Glossary and diluting for the effect of those shares potentially issuable Alternative Performance Measure APM under employee share schemes divided by the diluted number A financial measure of historical or future financial performance, of shares at the year end.
position or cash flows of the Group which is not a measure defined or specified in IFRS.
EPRA net asset value per share EPRA net asset value divided by the diluted number of BPS ordinary shares.
Basis point is a unit equal to one hundredth of a percentage point.
EPRA net initial yield Capco Annualised net rent after deduction of revenue costs such as Capco represents Capital & Counties Properties PLC also referred head rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls and to as the Company or the Parent and all its subsidiaries and empty rates on investment and development property expressed group undertakings, collectively referred to as the Group.
as a percentage of the gross market value before deduction of CLSA theoretical acquisition costs.
Conditional Land Sale Agreement, an agreement with LBHF EPRA topped-up initial yield relating to its land in the Earls Court and West Kensington Net initial yield adjusted for the expiration of rent-free periods.
EPRA triple net asset value NNNAV Diluted figures EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of derivative financial Reported amounts adjusted to include the dilutive effects of instruments, excess fair value of debt over carrying value and potential shares issuable under employee incentive arrangements.
deferred tax on derivative financial instruments, revaluations Earls Court and capital allowances.
The London district made up of a series of residential EPRA triple net asset value per share NNNAV neighbourhoods crossing the boundaries of London Borough of EPRA triple net asset value divided by the diluted number of Hammersmith & Fulham and Royal Borough of Kensington & ordinary shares.
EPRA vacancy Earls Court Masterplan The ERV of un-let units expressed as a percentage of the ERV of let The Earls Court Masterplan, created by Sir Terry Farrell and and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, excluding units Partners, is the consented scheme for the transformation of under development.
Earls Court and West Kensington Opportunity Area.
The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham and The Royal Borough ESB of Kensington & Chelsea formally granted outline planning Empress State Building.
permission for the Earls Court Masterplan on 14 November 2013.
Estimated rental value ERV Earls Court Properties The external valuers estimate of the open market rent which, on The Groups interests in the Earls Court area, comprising the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained properties held in ECPL, Lillie Square a 50:50 joint venture on a new letting or rent review of the property.
partnership with the Kwok Family Interests, the Empress State Building and a number of smaller properties in the FRC Earls Court area.
EBITDA GCP Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The Great Capital Partnership is a 50 per cent joint venture between Capital & Counties Limited and Great Portland Estates PLC.
EC1 & EC2 The site formerly the location of the Earls Court 1 and Earls Court 2 GEA Exhibition Centres.
ECPL GLA Earls Court Partnership Limited is the investment vehicle with Greater London Authority.
The Group holds 63 per cent controlling interest and TfL holds GRESB 37 per cent.
ECPL holds interests in EC1 & EC2 and other adjacent Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark.
property primarily located on and around Lillie Road.
Gross income EPRA The Groups share of passing rent plus sundry non-leased income.
European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best Practice Recommendations intended to make financial statements FTSE 350 Real Estate Index of public real estate companies in Europe clearer, more transparent London Stock Exchange index derived from real estate companies and comparable.
in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 indices.
EPRA earnings Headline earnings Profit for the year excluding gains or losses on the revaluation and Headline earnings per share is calculated in accordance with sale of investment and development property, write down of trading Circular 2 2015 issued by the South African Institute of Chartered property, changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments Accountants SAICA, a requirement of the Groups JSE listing.
and associated close-out costs and the related tax on these items.
This measure is not a requirement of IFRS.
EPRA earnings per share HMRC EPRA earnings divided by the weighted average number of shares Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.
IFRS EPRA net asset value NAV International Financial Reporting Standards.
The net assets as at the end of the year including the excess of Innova the fair value of trading property over its cost and excluding the Innova Investment Limited Partnership is a 50 per cent joint venture fair value of financial instruments, deferred tax on revaluations between the Group and Network Rail Infrastructure Limited.
144 144 Capco Capco Annual R Annual Re eport & port & Accounts 2017 Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements IPD P. A.
Investment Property Databank Limited, producer of an Per annum.
independent benchmark of property returns.
RBKC JSE Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea.
RICS Kwok Family Interests KFI Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Joint venture partner in the Lillie Square development.
RIDDOR LBHF Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham.
Like-for-like property SARB Property which has been owned throughout both years without South African Reserve Bank.
significant capital expenditure in either year, so income can be SAICA compared on a like-for-like basis.
For the purposes of comparison South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous balance sheet date but not necessarily throughout the prior year.
Section 106 Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, pursuant Loan to value LTV to which the relevant planning authority can impose planning LTV is calculated on the basis of the Groups net debt divided by the obligations on a developer to secure contributions to services, carrying value of the Groups property portfolio.
infrastructure and amenities in order to support and facilitate LSJV a proposed development.
The Lillie Square joint venture is a 50 per cent joint venture Tenant lease incentives between the Group and Kwok Family Interests.
Any incentives offered to tenants to enter into a lease.
Typically NAV incentives are in the form of an initial rent-free period and or Net Asset Value.
a cash contribution to fit-out the premises.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards the value of incentives granted Net debt to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a Total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
straight-line basis over the lease term.
NIA TfL Net Internal Area.
Transport for London and any subsidiary of Transport for London including Transport Trading Limited and London Net rental income NRI Underground Limited.
Gross rental income less ground rents, payable service charge expenses and other non-recoverable charges, having taken due Total property return TPR account of bad debt provisions and adjustments to comply with Capital growth including gains and losses on disposals plus International Financial Reporting Standards regarding tenant rent received less associated costs, including ground rent.
Total return TR Nominal equivalent yield The growth in EPRA NAV per share plus dividends per share paid Effective annual yield to a purchaser on the gross market value, during the year.
assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, and that the property becomes fully occupied and that all rents revert to the Total shareholder return TSR current market level ERV at the next review date or lease expiry.
The increase in the price of an ordinary share plus dividends paid during the year assuming re-investment in ordinary shares.
NRIL Network Rail Infrastructure Limited.
Underlying earnings Profit for the year excluding impairment charges, net valuation Occupancy rate gains losses including profits losses on disposals, net refinancing The ERV of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage charges, costs of termination of derivative financial instruments of the ERV of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, and non-recurring costs and income.
Underlying earnings is excluding units under development.
This is equivalent to 100 per reported on a Group share basis.
cent less the EPRA vacancy rate.
Underlying earnings per share EPS Opportunity Area Underlying earnings divided by the weighted average number of In September 2011 the GLA published the Opportunity Area shares in issue during the year.
Opportunity Areas are Londons major reservoirs of brownfield land with significant capacity to Weighted average unexpired lease term accommodate new housing, commercial and other developments The unexpired lease term to lease expiry weighted by ERV for linked to existing or potential improvements to public transport each lease.
Typically, they can accommodate at least 5,000 jobs WCC or 2,500 new homes or a combination of the two, along with other Westminster City Council.
Zone A Passing rent A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space Contracted annual rents receivable at the balance sheet date.
This by dividing it in to zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most takes no account of accounting adjustments made in respect of rentvaluable zone, Zone A, falls within a 6m depth of the shop frontage.
free periods or tenant lease incentives, the reclassification of certain Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the zone in front of lease payments as finance charges or any irrecoverable costs and it.
The blend is referred to as being ITZA In Terms of Zone A. expenses, and does not include excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect of unsettled rent reviews or sundry income.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in administration are excluded.
