CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION iii select suitable accounting policies and 3.
Directors Confirmation Political Contributions apply them consistently: The Directors are responsible for No political contributions were made preparing the Annual Report in iv make judgements and estimates that during the year.
The Company has a accordance with applicable law and are reasonable and prudent: policy of not making political donations regulations.
Having taken advice from the to political organisations or independent v present information, including Audit Committee, the Board considers election candidates anywhere in the world accounting policies, in a manner that the Annual Report and Accounts, as defined by the Political Parties, Election provides relevant, reliable, comparable taken as a whole, as fair, balanced and and Referendums Act 2000. and understandable information: and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders vi prepare the financial statements on Post Balance Sheet Events to assess the Companys performance, a going concern basis unless it is There have been no significant post business model and strategy.
inappropriate to presume that the balance sheet events since 31 December Company and the Group will continue Neither the Company nor the Directors 2017. in business.
accept any liability to any person in relation to the Annual Report except to The Directors are responsible for keeping Reappointment of Auditor the extent that such liability could arise proper accounting records which disclose under English law.
Ernst & Young LLP are willing to continue with reasonable accuracy at any time in office and, accordingly, resolutions the financial position of the Company 4.
Disclosure of Information to concerning their reappointment and and of the Group and to enable them to the Auditor to authorise the Directors to set their ensure that the financial statements and Having made the requisite enquiries, remuneration will be proposed at the Directors Remuneration Report comply so far as the Directors are aware as at forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
with the Companies Act 2006 and, for the date of this Statement, there is no the consolidated financial statements, relevant audit information as defined Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
They Directors Statements by section 418 3 of the Companies Act are also responsible for the system of 2006 of which the Companys auditor internal control, for safeguarding the of Responsibility is unaware and the Directors have taken assets of the Company and the Group all the steps they ought to have taken to The Directors are responsible for and, hence, for taking reasonable steps make themselves aware of any relevant preparing the Annual Report and for the prevention and detection of fraud audit information and to establish that Accounts in accordance with applicable and other irregularities.
the Companys auditor is aware of that law and regulations and keeping proper information.
The Directors are responsible for accounting records.
Detailed below are the maintenance and integrity of the statements made by the Directors in Annual General Meeting corporate and financial information relation to their responsibilities, disclosure The Annual General Meeting of the included on the Companys website.
of information to the Companys auditor Company will be held on 7 June 2018.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and going concern.
The notice of meeting can be found in governing the preparation and the document which accompanies this 1.
Financial Statements and dissemination of financial statements may Annual Report and Accounts.
It is also Accounting Records differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
available on the Companys website Company law of England and Wales 2.
requires the Directors to prepare for each Statement financial year financial statements which By order of the Board The Board confirms to the best of its give a true and fair view of the state of knowledge that: affairs of the Company and of the Group i the Group and parent company at the end of the financial year and of the financial statements, prepared in profit or loss of the Group for that period.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by Elaine Marriner In preparing those financial statements the EU, give a true and fair view of Company Secretary the Directors are required to: the assets, liabilities, financial position 6 March 2018 and profit of the Group and parent i state whether the Group financial company: and statements have been prepared in accordance with International ii the Directors Report and the Strategic Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Report include a fair review of the as adopted for use in the EU and development and performance of the Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations: business and the position of the Group together with a description of the ii state whether the parent company principal risks and uncertainties that financial statements have been it faces.
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU: Corporate Governance | 84
