Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting Policies Basis of preparation The Annual Report and Accounts of IP Group plc IP Group or the Company and its subsidiary companies together, the Group are for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are set out below.
The policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and Interpretations collectively IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRSs.
The preparation of financial statements in compliance with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires Group management to exercise judgement in the most appropriate selection of the Groups accounting policies.
The areas where significant judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements and their effect are disclosed in note 3.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the directors are satisfied that the Group and parent Company have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessment, the directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
Changes in accounting policies i New standards, interpretations and amendments effective from 1 January 2017 No new standards, interpretations and amendments effective for the first time from 1 January 2017 have had a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
ii New standards, interpretations and amendments not yet effective The following new standards, which have not been applied in these financial statements, will or may have an effect on the Groups future financial statements: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 was issued on 28 May 2014 and provides a global standard on revenue recognition which aligns the IFRS and US GAAP guidance.
It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance, including IAS 18 revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
The Group has assessed the potential impact on its consolidated financial statements resulting from the application of IFRS 15 and does not foresee any material effect when the Standard is applied.
While early adoption is permitted, IFRS 15 has an effective date of 1 January 2018 with the year ending 31 December 2018 being the first annual financial statements to which the standard applies.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IFRS 9 will eventually replace IAS 39 in its entirety.
The process has been divided into three main components, being classification and measurement: impairment: and hedge accounting.
The Group provisionally assesses the potential effect to be immaterial given the majority of its financial assets are currently held at fair value through profit or loss.
The effective date is 1 January 2018.
120 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 1.
Accounting Policies continued IFRS 16 Leases: IFRS 16 Leases was issued on 13 January 2016 and replaces IAS 17 Leases.
IFRS 16 requires all operating leases in excess of one year, where the Group is the lessee, to be included on the Groups statement of financial position, and recognised as a right-of-use ROU asset and a related lease liability representing the obligation to make lease payments.
The ROU asset will be amortised on a straight-line basis with the lease liability being amortised using the effective interest method.
Optional exemptions are available under IFRS 16 for short-term leases lease terms less than 12 months and for small-value leases.
Based on the preliminary assessment, the Group expects its existing operating lease arrangements as a lessee to be recognised as ROU assets with corresponding lease liabilities under the new standard.
The Group has assessed the potential impact on its consolidated financial statements resulting from the application of IFRS 16 and does not foresee any material effect when the Standard is applied.
Early adoption is permitted if IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with customers has been applied but IFRS 16 has an effective date of 1 January 2019 with the year ending 31 December 2019 being the first annual financial statements to which the standard applies.
None of the other new standards, interpretations and amendments not yet effective are expected to have a material effect on the Groups future financial statements.
Basis of consolidation i Business Combinations The Group accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method from the date that control is transferred to the Group see ii Subsidiaries below.
Both the identifiable net assets and the consideration transferred in the acquisition are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is tested annually for impairment.
In instances where the Group owns a non-controlling stake prior to acquisition the step acquisition method is applied, and any gain or losses on the fair value of the pre-acquisition holding is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
ii Subsidiaries Where the Group has control over an entity, it is classified as a subsidiary.
As per IFRS 10, an entity is classed as under the control of the Group when all three of the following elements are present: power over the entity: exposure to variable returns from the entity: and the ability of the Group to use its power to affect those variable returns.
Control is reassessed whenever facts and circumstances indicate that there may be a change in any of these elements of control.
In situations where the Company has the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee without holding the majority of the voting rights, it is considered that fide facto control exists.
In determining whether fide facto control exists the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances, including: y The size of the Companys voting rights relative to both the size and dispersion of other parties who hold voting rights: y Substantive potential voting rights held by the company and by other parties: y Other contractual arrangements: and y Historic patterns in voting attendance.
The consolidated financial statements present the results of the Company and its subsidiaries as if they formed a single entity.
Intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies are therefore eliminated in full.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the acquisition method.
In the statement of financial position, the acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Contingent liabilities dependent on the disposed value of an associated investment are only recognised when the fair value is above the associated threshold.
The results of acquired operations are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is obtained.
They are consolidated until the date on which control ceases.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 1.
Accounting Policies continued iii Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but does not control, generally accompanied by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
No associates are presented on the consolidated statement of financial position as the Group elects to hold such investments at fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures, which permits investments held by entities that are akin to venture capital organisations to be excluded from its measurement methodology requirements where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Changes in fair value of associates are recognised in profit or loss in the period of the change.
The Group has no interests in associates through which it carries on its business.
The disclosures required by Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 for associated undertakings are included in Note 10 of the Company financial statements.
Similarly, those investments which may not have qualified as Associate but fall within the wider scope of significant holdings and so are subject to Section 409 disclosure acts are also included in Note 10 of the Company financial statements.
iv Limited Partnerships and Limited Liability Partnerships Limited Partnerships Group entities act as general partner and investment manager to the following Limited Partnerships: Interest in limited partnership Name % IP Venture Fund II LP IPVFII 33.3 IP Venture Fund LP IPVF 10.0 The North East Technology Fund LP NETF The Group receives compensation for its role as investment manager to these Limited Partnerships including fixed fees and performance fees.
The directors consider that these amounts are in substance and form normal market rate compensation for its role as investment manager.
In order to determine whether these Limited Partnerships were required to be consolidated, the presence of the three elements of control noted in part ii was examined.
The Groups significant stake in IPVFII creates a significant exposure to the variability of returns from those interests and the Groups ability to direct the operations of the fund would result in IP Group obtaining the benefits of its activities.
As such, IPVFII meets the criteria in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and is consequently consolidated.
In the case of IPVF, the directors consider that the minority Limited Partnership interest does not create an exposure of such significance that it indicates that the Group acts as anything other than an agent for the other Limited Partners in the arrangement.
This is further supported by the presence of a strict investment policy and the inability for the general partner to change the restrictive terms of that policy other than with agreement of 100% of IPVFs Limited Partners.
Similarly, the lack of a stake in NETF indicates the Groups role as an agent for the limited partner.
As a result, the Directors consider that the Group does not have the power to govern the operations of these limited partnerships so as to obtain benefits from their activities and accordingly do not meet the definition of a subsidiary under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
However, the Group does have the power to exercise significant influence over its limited partnerships and accordingly the Groups accounting treatment for the interest in IPVF is consistent with that of associates as described earlier in this report, i. e. in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and designated as at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
122 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 1.
Accounting Policies continued In addition to Limited Partnerships where Group entities act as general partner and investment manager the Group has interests in three further entities which are all managed by third parties: Interest in limited partnership Name % UCL Technology Fund LP UCL Fund 46.4 Technikos LLP Technikos 18.0 Apollo Therapeutics LLP Apollo Fund 8.3 The Group has a 46.4% interest in the total capital commitments of the UCL Technology Fund LP UCL Fund.
The Group has committed 24.8m to the fund alongside the European Investment Fund EIF, University College London and other investors.
Participation in the fund provides the Group with visibility of potential intellectual property from across University College Londons research base.
The Group has a 18.0% interest in the total capital commitments of Technikos LLP Technikos.
The Group has an 8.3% interest in the total capital commitments of Apollo Therapeutics LLP Apollo, a 40.0m venture between AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson and the technology transfer offices of Imperial College London via Imperial Innovations Limited, University College London via UCL Business plc and the University of Cambridge via Cambridge Enterprise Limited.
The venture supports the translation of academic therapeutic science into innovative new medicines by combining the skills of the university academics with industry expertise at an early stage.
v Non-controlling interests The total comprehensive income, assets and liabilities of non-wholly owned subsidiaries are attributed to owners of the parent and to the non-controlling interests in proportion to their relative ownership interests.
Portfolio return and revenue Change in fair value Change in fair value of equity and debt investments represents revaluation gains and losses on the Groups portfolio of investments.
Gains on disposal of equity investments represent the difference between the fair value of consideration received and the carrying value at the start of the accounting period on the disposal of equity investments.
Change in fair value of Limited Partnership investments represents revaluation gains and losses on the Groups investments in Limited Partnership funds.
Changes in fair values of assets do not constitute revenue.
Licence income Income from licensing and similar income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
Income from milestone income is recognised once performance obligations are satisfied, on an accruals basis and in accordance with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
Accounting Policies continued Revenue from services and other income All revenue from services is generated within the United Kingdom and is stated exclusive of value added tax.
Revenue from services and other income comprises: Advisory fees Fees earned from the provision of business support services are recognised as the related services are provided.
Corporate finance advisory fees are generally earned as a fixed percentage of total funds raised and recognised at the time the related transaction is successfully concluded.
In some instances, these fees are settled via the issue of equity in the company receiving the corporate finance services at the same price per share as equity issued as part the financing round to which the advisory fees apply.
Fund management services Fund management fees include fiduciary fund management fees which are generally earned as a fixed percentage of total funds under management and are recognised as the related services are provided and performance fees payable from realisation of agreed returns to investors which are recognised as performance criterion are met.
Dividends Dividends receivable from equity shares are included within other portfolio income and recognised on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, are recognised when the Groups right to receive payment is established.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life, as follows: Fixtures and fittings Over 3 to 5 years Computer equipment Over 3 to 5 years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets and allocated from the acquisition date to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination.
Goodwill may be allocated to CGUs in both the acquired business and in the existing business.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets represent contractual arrangements and memorandums of understanding with UK universities acquired through acquisition of subsidiaries.
At the date of acquisition, the cost of these intangibles as a share of the larger acquisition was calculated and subsequently the assets are held at amortised cost.
124 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 1.
Accounting Policies continued Impairment of intangible assets including goodwill Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are tested for impairment when events or a change in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairments, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are identifiable cash flows i. e. CGUs.
Financial assets In respect of regular way purchases or sales, the Group uses trade date accounting to recognise or derecognise financial assets.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the categories listed below, depending on the purpose for which the asset was acquired.
None of the Groups financial assets are categorised as held to maturity or available for sale.
i At fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are either financial assets held for trading or financial assets which are designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
This category includes equity investments, debt investments, equity rights, contingent value rights and investments in limited partnerships.
Investments in associated undertakings, which are held by the Group with a view to the ultimate realisation of capital gains, are also categorised as at fair value through profit or loss.
This measurement basis is consistent with the fact that the Groups performance in respect of investments in equity investments, limited partnerships and associated undertakings is evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with an established investment strategy.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and any gains or losses arising from subsequent changes in fair value are presented in profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive income in the period which they arise.
Fair value hierarchy The Group classifies financial assets using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the related fair value measurements.
The level in the fair value hierarchy, within which a financial asset is classified, is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to that assets fair value measurement.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1 Quoted prices in active markets.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable, such as prices from market transactions.
Level 3 One or more inputs that are not based on observable market data.
Accounting Policies continued Equity investments The fair values of quoted investments are based on bid prices in an active market at the reporting date.
The fair value of unlisted securities is established using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis and earnings multiples.
Wherever possible, the Group uses valuation techniques which make maximum use of market-based inputs.
Accordingly, the valuation methodology used most commonly by the Group is the price of recent investment contained in the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines the IPEVCV Guidelines endorsed by the British & European Venture Capital Associations.
The following considerations are used when calculating the fair value of unlisted securities: Cost Where the investment being valued was itself made recently, its cost may provide a good indication of fair value unless there is objective evidence that the investment has since been impaired, such as observable data suggesting a deterioration of the financial, technical, or commercial performance of the underlying business.
Price of recent investment The Group considers that fair value estimates, which are based entirely on observable market data, will be of greater reliability than those based on assumptions and, accordingly, where there has been any recent investment by third parties, the price of that investment will generally provide a basis of the valuation.
The length of period for which it remains appropriate to use the price of recent investment depends on the specific circumstances of the investment and the stability of the external environment.
Given the nature of the Groups investments in seed, start-up and early-stage companies, where there are often no current and no short-term future earnings or positive cash flows, it can be difficult to gauge the probability and financial impact of the success or failure of development or research activities and to make reliable cash flow forecasts.
Consequently, the most appropriate approach to determine fair value is a methodology that is based on market data, that being the price of a recent investment.
Where the Group considers that the price of recent investment, unadjusted, is no longer relevant and there are limited or no comparable companies or transactions from which to infer value, the Group carries out an enhanced assessment based on milestone analysis and or industry and sector analysis.
In applying the milestone analysis approach to investments in companies in early or development stages the Group seeks to determine whether there is an indication of change in fair value based on a consideration of performance against any milestones that were set at the time of the original investment decision, as well as taking into consideration the key market drivers of the investee company and the overall economic environment.
Where the equity structure of a portfolio company involves different class rights in a sale or liquidity event, the Group takes these different rights into account when forming a view on the value of its investment.
Where the Group considers that there is an indication that the fair value has changed, an estimation is made of the required amount of any adjustment from the last price of recent investment, or an alternative valuation technique is used where this is deemed more appropriate.
Where a deterioration in value has occurred, the Group reduces the carrying value of the investment to reflect the estimated decrease.
If there is evidence of value creation the Group may consider increasing the carrying value of the investment: however, in the absence of additional financing rounds or profit generation it can be difficult to determine the value that a purchaser may place on positive developments given the potential outcome and the costs and risks to achieving that outcome and accordingly caution is applied.
Factors that the Group considers include, inter alia, technical measures such as product development phases and patent approvals, financial measures such as cash burn rate and profitability expectations, and market and sales measures such as testing phases, product launches and market introduction.
126 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 1.
Accounting Policies continued Other valuation techniques Where it is no longer deemed appropriate to use the price of recent investment as a valuation basis, the Group uses alternative methodologies in the IPEVCV Guidelines such as discounted cash flows DCF or priceearnings multiples.
DCF involves estimating the fair value of a business by calculating the present value of expected future cash flows, based on the most recent forecasts in respect of the underlying business.
When using the earnings multiple methodology, earnings before interest and tax EBIT are generally used, adjusted to a maintainable level.
A suitable earnings multiple is derived from an equivalent business or group of businesses, for which the average price-earnings multiple for the relevant sector index can generally be considered a suitable proxy.
This multiple is applied to earnings to derive an enterprise value which is then discounted by up to 60% for non-marketability and other risks inherent to businesses in early stages of operation.
No reliable estimate Where a fair value cannot be estimated reliably, the investment is reported at the carrying value at the previous reporting date unless there is objective evidence that the investment has since been impaired.
Debt investments Debt investments are generally unquoted debt instruments which are convertible to equity at a future point in time.
Such instruments are considered to be hybrid instruments containing a fixed rate debt host contract with an embedded equity derivative.
The Group designates the entire hybrid contract at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition and, accordingly, the embedded derivative is not separated from the host contract and accounted for separately.
The fair value of debt on initial recognition is measured at fair value which is equal to cost and subsequent remeasurement will be recognised as changes in fair value in the statement of comprehensive income.
Contingent value rights In instances where the Group receives contingent financial consideration upon the disposal of a financial asset, the resulting asset shall be recognised and designated as at fair value through profit and loss, and treated accordingly.
ii Loans and receivables These assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed and determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise principally through the provision of services to customers trade receivables and are carried at cost less provision for impairment.
Deposits Deposits comprise longer-term deposits held with financial institutions with an original maturity of greater than three months.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and short-term deposits held with financial institutions with an original maturity of three months or less.
The directors have reconsidered the classification of cash flows related to amounts held on deposit and have presented the net cash flow to Deposits within Investing activities, rather than as an adjustment within cash flows from operating activities.
Comparatives have been represented accordingly.
Accounting Policies continued Financial liabilities Current financial liabilities are composed of trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities, which are recognised at amortised cost.
Non-current liabilities are composed of loans from Limited Partners of consolidated funds, outstanding amounts drawn down from a debt facility provided by the European Investment Bank, carried interest plans liabilities, provisions for liabilities and charges, liabilities recognised in relation to Higher Education Innovation Fund HEIF and University Challenge Seed Fund UCSF investment revenue sharing schemes and deferred consideration payable on acquisition of Parkwalk Advisors.
The loans from Limited Partners of consolidated funds are repayable only upon the applicable funds generating sufficient returns to repay the Limited Partners.
Management anticipates that the funds will generate the required returns and consequently recognises the full associated liabilities.
Non-current liabilities are recognised initially at fair value net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently at amortised cost.
The Group operates a carried interest plan or Long-Term Incentive Carry Scheme LTICS for eligible employees.
Before any payment to a participant becomes due under the scheme, the Group must first have received back the amount of their investment in the relevant vintage together with a hurdle rate of 8% per annum compound on their investment.
At the point at which the hurdle rate has been exceeded a provision is included for the unrealised gain due to members of the scheme vintage.
The provision is measured by reference to the fair value of the relevant investments, with movements in the provision taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group provides for liabilities in respect of revenue sharing with Imperial College London, arising under the Technology Pipeline Agreement TPA, and other parties.
Provision for revenue-share, based on fair value, on the future realisation of quoted and unquoted investments is recognised as part of the movement in fair value through profit or loss.
Deferred and contingent consideration payable on acquisition are comprised of amounts due to the sellers of Parkwalk Advisors.
Unless otherwise indicated, the carrying amounts of the Groups financial liabilities are a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
Share capital Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity if the holders have only a residual interest in the Groups assets after deducting all liabilities.
The objective of the Group is to manage capital so as to provide shareholders with above average returns through capital growth over the medium to long-term.
The Group considers its capital to comprise its share capital, share premium, merger reserve and retained earnings.
Top Technology Ventures Limited, Parkwalk Advisors Ltd and Touchstone Investment Management Limited, are Group subsidiaries which are subject to external capital requirements imposed by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and as such must ensure that it has sufficient capital to satisfy these requirements.
The Group ensures it remains compliant with these requirements as described in their respective financial statements.
128 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 1.
Accounting Policies continued Employee benefits i Pension obligations The Group operates a company defined contribution pension scheme for which all employees are eligible.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The Group currently makes contributions on behalf of employees to this scheme or to employee personal pension schemes on an individual basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expenses when they are due.
ii Share-based payments The Group engages in equity-settled share-based payment transactions in respect of services receivable from employees, by granting employees conditional awards of ordinary shares subject to certain vesting conditions.
Conditional awards of shares are made pursuant to the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards and or the Groups Annual Incentive Scheme AIS.
The fair value of the shares is estimated at the date of grant, taking into account the terms and conditions of the award, including market-based performance conditions.
The fair value at the date of grant is recognised as an expense over the period that the employee provides services, generally the period between the start of the performance period and the vesting date of the shares.
The corresponding credit is recognised in retained earnings within total equity.
The fair value of services is calculated using the market value on the date of award and is adjusted for expected and actual levels of vesting.
Where conditional awards of shares lapse the expense recognised to date is credited to the statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they lapse.
Where the terms for an equity-settled award are modified, and the modification increases the total fair value of the share-based payment, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee at the date of modification, the incremental fair value is amortised over the vesting period.
Deferred tax Full provision is made for deferred tax on all temporary differences resulting from the carrying value of an asset or liability and its tax base.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax liability settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the deferred tax asset will be recovered in the future.
Leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to administrative expenses in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 2.
Financial Risk Management As set out in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 46 to 53, the Group is exposed, through its normal operations, to a number of financial risks, the most significant of which are market, liquidity and credit risks.
In general, risk management is carried out throughout the Group under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The following further describes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing those risks and the methods used to measure them.
Further quantitative information in respect of these risks is presented throughout these financial statements.
a Market risk i Price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk as a result of the equity and debt investments, and investments in Limited Partnerships held by the Group and categorised as at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group mitigates this risk by having established investment appraisal processes and asset monitoring procedures which are subject to overall review by the Board.
The Group has also established corporate finance and communications teams dedicated to supporting portfolio companies with fundraising activities and investor relations.
The Group holds investments which are publicly traded on AIM 20 companies and investments which are not traded on an active market.
The net portfolio gains in 2017 of 94.2m represents a 15.3% change against the opening balance 2016: net increase of 6.5m, 1.4% change and a similar increase or decrease in the prices of quoted and unquoted investments is considered to be reasonably possible.
The table below summarises the impact of a 1% increase decrease in the price of both quoted and unquoted investments on the Groups post-tax profit for the year and on equity.
2017 2016 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total m m m m m m Equity investments and investments 2.3 8.7 11.0 1.6 4.6 6.2 in limited partnerships ii Interest rate risk The EIB debt facility bears interest at a fixed rate of 1.98% with an additional variable spread equal to the six month GBP Libor rate as at the first date of each six-month interest period.
The first 15.0m tranche was disbursed on 17 December 2015 and the average floating interest rate including the fixed element for 2016 was 2.66% 2015: 2.48% The Group also holds an additional debt facility totalling 104.0m with the EIB as a consequence of the combination with Touchstone Innovations during the year.
The first tranche of their EIB loan is linked to quarterly LIBOR rate.
The loan was disbursed on 30 July 2013 and the floating interest rate including LIBOR was 3.3%.
There are no hedging instruments in place to cover against interest rate fluctuation as exposure is deemed insignificant.
The second tranche of the Touchstone EIB loan is based on a fixed interest rate of 4.235%.
Touchstone entered a second loan agreement for 50.0m with a fixed interest rate of 3.026%.
The other primary impact of interest rate risk to the Group is the impact on the income and operating cash flows as a result of the interest-bearing deposits and cash and cash equivalents held by the Group.
iii Concentrations of risk The Group is exposed to concentration risk via the significant majority of the portfolio being UK based companies and thus subject to the performance of the UK economy.
The Group is increasing its operations in the US and the determination of the associated concentrations is determined by the number of investment opportunities that management believe represent a good investment.
The Group mitigates this risk, in co-ordination with liquidity risk, by managing its proportion of fixed to floating rate financial assets.
The table overleaf summarises the interest rate profile of the Group.
130 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 2.
Financial Risk Management continued 2017 2016 Fixed Floating Interest Fixed Floating Interest rate rate free Total rate rate free Total m m m m m m m m Financial assets Equity investments 1,085.4 1,085.4 594.9 594.9 Debt investments 45.2 45.2 0.2 18.9 19.1 Limited and limited liability partnership interests 11.0 11.0 4.2 4.2 Deposits 95.0 95.0 Cash and cash equivalents 7.5 223.8 231.3 30.0 82.3 112.3 Trade receivables 1.9 1.9 2.3 2.3 6.4 6.4 Other receivables 0.3 0.3 102.5 223.8 1,149.9 1,476.2 30.2 82.3 620.6 733.1 Financial liabilities Trade payables 2.0 2.0 0.7 0.7 Other accruals and deferred income 17.7 17.7 1.4 1.4 EIB debt facility 65.0 39.0 104.0 14.9 14.9 Carried interest plan liability 8.8 8.8 Provisions for liabilities and 6.4 6.4 charges Loans from limited partners 13.1 13.1 9.8 9.8 of consolidated funds 65.0 39.0 48.0 152.0 14.9 11.9 26.8 At 31 December 2017, if interest rates had been 1% higher lower, post-tax profit for the year, and other components of equity, would have been 1.8m 2016: 0.8m higher lower as a result of higher interest received on floating rate cash deposits.
Financial Risk Management continued b Liquidity risk The Group seeks to manage liquidity risk, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
The Groups Treasury Management Policy asserts that at any one point in time no more than 60% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents will be placed in fixed-term deposits with a holding period greater than three months.
Accordingly, the Group only invests working capital in short-term instruments issued by reputable counterparties.
The Group continually monitors rolling cash flow forecasts to ensure sufficient cash is available for anticipated cash requirements.
c Credit risk The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its deposits, cash and cash equivalents, debt investments and trade receivables.
The Group seeks to mitigate its credit risk on cash and cash equivalents by making short-term deposits with counterparties, or by investing in treasury funds with an AA credit rating or above managed by institutions.
Short-term deposit counterparties are required to have most recently reported total assets in excess of 5bn and, where applicable, a prime short-term credit rating at the time of investment ratings are generally determined by Moodys or Standard & Poors.
Moodys prime credit ratings of P1, P2 and P3 indicate respectively that the rating agency considers the counterparty to have a superior, strong or acceptable ability to repay short-term debt obligations generally defined as having an original maturity not exceeding 13 months.
An analysis of the Groups deposits and cash and cash equivalents balance analysed by credit rating as at the reporting date is shown in the table opposite.
All other financial assets are unrated.
2017 2016 Credit rating m m P1 117.9 76.7 P2 208.4 35.6 326.3 Total deposits and cash and cash equivalents 112.3 The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The Group has detailed policies and strategies which seek to minimise these associated risks including defining maximum counterparty exposure limits for term deposits based on their perceived financial strength at the commencement of the deposit.
The maximum single counterparty limit for deposits at 31 December 2017 was 50m 2016: 50m.
The Groups exposure to credit risk on debt investments is managed in a similar way to equity price risk, as described earlier, through the Groups investment appraisal processes and asset monitoring procedures which are subject to overall review by the Board.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for debt investments, receivables and other financial assets is represented by their carrying amount.
132 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 3.
Significant Accounting Estimates and Judgements The directors make judgements and estimates concerning the future.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, such as expectations of future events, and are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions which have the most significant effects on the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities in the financial statements are discussed below.
i Valuation of unquoted equity investments The estimates required in order to determine the appropriate valuation methodology of unquoted equity investments have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities.
These estimates include making assessments of the future earnings potential of portfolio companies, appropriate earnings multiples to apply, and marketability and other risk discounts as further described in note 2. ii Valuation of unquoted equity investments acquired via combination with Touchstone Innovations As described in i above, the valuation of unquoted equity investments requires management to make estimates to determine an appropriate valuation methodology of unquoted equity investments.
Additionally, the directors have used their judgement in determining whether valuation changes affect the fair value at the date of acquisition or in the period post acquisition.
Again, these estimates are further described in note 2. iii Impairment of goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based on managements judgements regarding the future prospects of the business, estimates of future cash flows and discount rates.
When assessing the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill, the recoverable amount is determined using a number of value-in-use and  calculations.
The use of these methods requires the estimation of future cash flows, and the selection of a suitable discount rate, in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows as well as the selection of applicable and reasonable multiples.
For the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, the Group considers each of its cash-generating units separately to which goodwill is allocated.
Any impairment losses in respect of goodwill will not be reversed.
Discussion of sensitivity analyses is included in the relevant note for each of the above estimates and judgements.
Revenue from Services All revenue from services is derived from either the provision of advisory and venture capital fund management services or from licensing activities, royalty revenues and patent cost recoveries.
Operating Segments For both the year ended 31 December 2017 and the year ended 31 December 2016, the Groups revenue and profit loss before taxation were derived almost entirely from its principal activities within the UK.
Though the Group has initiated operations in the US and Australasia, the associated revenues and costs are currently immaterial and accordingly, no additional geographical disclosures are given.
For management reporting purposes, the Group is currently organised into three operating segments: i the commercialisation of intellectual property via the formation of long-term partner relationships with universities: ii the management of venture funds focusing on early-stage UK technology companies: and iii the in-licensing of drugable intellectual property from research intensive institutions which due to a share reorganisation in December 2017 was deconsolidated as a Group company and will be recognised on the statement of financial position as part of the IP Group investment portfolio going forward.
These activities are described in further detail in the Strategic report on pages 7 to 59.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 5.
Operating Segments continued University Venture partnership capital fund In-licensing business management activity Consolidated Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Portfolio return and revenue Change in fair value of equity and debt investments 49.0 49.0 Gain on disposal of equity investments 0.1 0.1 Gain on deconsolidation of subsidiary 45.1 45.1 Change in fair value of limited and limited liability partnership interests 0.2 0.2 Other portfolio income Licensing income 3.4 3.4 Revenue from services and other income 1.1 0.9 2.0 Revenue from fund management services 4.1 4.1 Carried interest plan charge 1.3 1.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 3.9 3.9 IFRS3 charge in respect of acquisition of subsidiary 4.4 4.4 Acquisition and restructuring costs 9.1 9.1 Administrative expenses 25.9 2.3 3.5 31.7 Operating profit 5.4 2.7 45.0 53.1 Finance income 1.0 1.0 0.7 0.7 Finance costs Profit before taxation 5.7 2.7 45.0 53.4 Taxation 5.7 2.7 45.0 53.4 Profit for the year STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Assets 1,643.4 17.1 1,660.5 Liabilities 147.8 4.2 152.0 Net assets 1,495.6 12.9 1,508.5 Other segment items Capital expenditure 1.6 1.6 Depreciation 0.9 0.9 134 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 5.
Operating Segments continued University Venture partnership capital fund In-licensing business management activity Consolidated Year ended 31 December 2016 m m m m STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Portfolio return and revenue Change in fair value of equity and debt investments 7.0 7.0 Loss on disposal of equity investments 0.5 0.5 Change in fair value of limited and limited liability partnership interests 0.3 0.3 Change in fair value of contingent value right 1.4 1.4 Other portfolio income Licensing income 0.2 0.2 Revenue from services and other income 0.8 0.9 1.7 Revenue from fund management services 0.9 0.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.6 5.6 Acquisition costs 0.4 0.4 Administrative expenses 14.9 0.7 1.4 17.0 Operating loss 15.1 1.1 1.4 15.4 Finance income 0.6 0.6 Loss before taxation 14.5 1.1 1.4 14.8 Taxation Loss for the year 14.5 1.1 1.4 14.8 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Assets 778.4 10.9 6.2 795.5 Liabilities 26.5 0.1 0.2 26.8 Net assets 751.9 10.8 6.0 768.7 Other segment items Capital expenditure Depreciation 0.1 0.1 135 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 6.
Auditors Remuneration Details of the auditors remuneration are set out below: 2017 2016 000s 000s Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 118 74 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys interim accounts 50 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 100 87 Total fees for audit services 268 161 Audit-related assurance services 21 Total assurance services 268 182 Tax compliance services Taxation advisory services All other services 23 18 23 Total non-assurance services 18 291 200 7.
Operating Profit Operating profit has been arrived at after charging or crediting: 2017 2016 m m Amortisation of intangible assets 3.9 5.6 Depreciation of tangible assets 0.9 0.1 Employee costs see note 9 17.0 9.5 Operating leases see note 21 1.1 0.5 Gain on deconsolidation of subsidiary 45.1 Gain loss on disposal of equity investments 0.1 0.5 8.
Acquisition and Restructuring Costs Acquisition and restructuring costs in the year comprised: 2017 2016 m m Financial and corporate broking advice 5.0 Legal advice 1.0 0.3 Other professional advice 0.2 0.1 2.9 Other costs 9.1 0.4 Acquisition and restructuring costs are largely comprised of professional fees incurred for the acquisition of Touchstone Innovations which was affected by means of a takeover under the City Code.
Other costs include a provision for employee redundancies, an onerous lease provision for London office space surplus to requirements and accelerated depreciation on the fixed assets within the Touchstone office.
Costs incurred in the prior year were wholly incurred in respect of the acquisition of Parkwalk Advisors.
136 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 9.
Employee Costs Employee costs including executive directors comprise: 2017 2016 m m Salaries 10.2 7.0 Defined contribution pension cost 0.5 0.4 Share-based payment charge see note 22 2.4 1.5 Other bonuses accrued in the year 2.5 Social security 1.4 0.6 17.0 9.5 The average monthly number of persons including executive directors employed by the Group during the year was 115, all of whom were involved in management and administration activities 2016: 70.
Details of the Directors remuneration can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 99.
Taxation 2017 2016 m m Current tax Deferred tax The Group primarily seeks to generate capital gains from its holdings in spin-out companies over the longerterm but has historically made annual net operating losses from its operations from a UK tax perspective.
Capital gains achieved by the Group would ordinarily be taxed upon realisation of such holdings.
The Directors continue to believe that the Group qualifies for the Substantial Shareholdings Exemption SSE.
The Directors consider that the SSE regime has been simplified and enhanced during the period, with a number of changes being enacted in the Finance No.
2 Act 2017 that are effective for disposals on or after 1 April 2017.
From the Groups perspective the key changes were to remove the requirement for the investing entity in this case, IP Group to be a sole trading entity or member of a trading group and extending the minimum 10% holding period to any 12-month period in the six years prior to disposal.
The Group welcomed these changes and the directors anticipate that they will have a favourable impact on the Group, giving greater certainty over the exemption of qualifying gains under SSE, and increasing the Groups flexibility over the timing of future portfolio company disposals.
The changes in the Finance No.
2 Act 2017 also included a restriction on companies use of brought forward losses.
As a result, the amount of profit that can be mitigated by brought forward losses will be restricted to 50% of the amount of profits in excess of 5m.
The Directors do not currently consider that these proposed changes will result in the recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of any unrealised gains that do not qualify for SSE but note that such liabilities may arise in the future.
Assets held in Luxembourg, which were acquired via the combination with Touchstone in the year, are also subject to capital gains and ordinarily the Group would be taxed on their realisation.
The participation exemption, similar to the UK SSE scheme described above, is available for certain share disposals.
Dividends and gains arising to Imperial Innovations Srl through its interest in Touchstone Innovations Businesses LLP should be exempt from tax under Luxembourg law provided the conditions for the participation exemption are met for each investment or each investment can be attributed to a UK permanent establishment.
Tax residence of Imperial Innovations Srl will be maintained in Luxembourg and no UK tax should arise on the applicable gains.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 10.
Taxation continued The amount for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the statement of comprehensive income as follows: 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 53.4 14.8 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 20.0% 2015: 20.3% 10.3 3.0 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.6 0.9 Non taxable income on deconsolidation of Istesso group 8.7 Fair value movement on investments qualifying for SSE 9.4 1.3 Movement on share-based payments 0.3 0.1 Unrecognised other temporary differences Movement in tax losses arising not recognised 5.9 3.3 Total tax charge At 31 December 2017, deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses, for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised, totalled 246.9m 2016: 141.7m.
An analysis is shown below: 2017 2016 Amount Deferred tax Amount Deferred tax m m m m Share-based payment costs and other temporary 15.3 2.6 14.1 2.4 differences Unused tax losses 231.8 39.4 127.6 21.7 246.9 42.0 141.7 24.1 At 31 December 2017, deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses, for which a deferred tax asset liability has been recognised, totalled nil 2016: nil.
An analysis is shown below: 2017 2016 Amount Deferred tax Amount Deferred tax m m m m Temporary timing differences 7.1 1.2 2.6 4.4 Unused tax losses 7.1 1.2 2.6 0.4 138 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 11.
Earnings per Share 2017 2016 Earnings m m Earnings for the purposes of basic and dilutive earnings per share 49.7 13.5 2017 2016 Number of Number of Number of shares shares shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 704,227,751 565,056,171 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Options or contingently issuable shares 657,673 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 704,885,424 565,056,171 Potentially dilutive ordinary shares include contingently issuable shares arising under the Groups LTIP arrangements, and options issued as part of the Groups Sharesave schemes and Deferred Bonus Share Plan for annual bonuses deferred under the terms of the Groups annual incentive scheme.
Goodwill m At 1 January 2017 57.1 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings see note 27 115.0 At 31 December 2017 172.1 Goodwill arising on business combinations is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Recoverable amounts for CGUs are based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
Value in use in calculated from cashflow projections for the CGUs to which the goodwill has been allocated.
The goodwill allocated to each CGU is summarised in the table below.
2017 2016 m m University partnership CGU 169.6 55.0 Fund management CGU 2.1 2.1 0.4 Parkwalk Advisors CGU 172.1 57.1 139 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 12.
Goodwill continued Impairment review of the university partnership CGU The key assumptions of the DCF models used to assess the value in use are shown below.
For the purposes of impairment testing, the university partnership CGU comprises those elements connected with the Groups university partnership business.
The Directors consider that for each of the key variables which would be relevant in determining a recoverable value for the university partnership CGU, there is a range of reasonably possible alternative values.
The key variable ranges are set out below: 2017 2016 Number of spin-out companies per year 1315 1015 Annual investment rate 50m60m 40m75m Rate of return achieved 15%20% 15%22% Proportion of IPO exits 25%30% 25%35% Proportion of disposal exits 25%28% 25%32% IPO & Disposal valuations 30m35m 25m35m Long term growth rate 1.5%1.7% 1.9% Discount rate 10%15% 9%11% When determining the key variables, management has, where possible and appropriate, used historical performance data as a basis.
In instances where the forecasted volumes and scale of activity do not align with the Groups prior performance, management applies its judgement in determining these variables.
Two different value-in-use models were assessed in order to evaluate the recoverable value of the CGU, neither of which resulted in an impairment being required.
Impairment review of venture capital fund management CGU The key assumptions of the DCF model used to assess the value in use are shown below: 2017 2016 m m Discount rate 9%11% 9%11% Number of funds under management 3 4 Management fee 2%3.25% 2%3.25% Cost inflation 2.5% 1.5% Long term growth rate 1.9% The value-in-use models were assessed in order to evaluate the recoverable value of the CGU does not indicate an impairment being required.
140 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 13.
Intangible Assets m Cost At 1 January 2017 21.6 Additions acquired through business combinations 9.0 At 31 December 2017 30.6 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2017 16.5 Charge for the year 3.9 At 31 December 2016 20.4 Net book value At 31 December 2017 10.2 At 31 December 2016 5.1 The intangible assets represent contracts with customers and other contractual arrangements with UK universities acquired through acquisition of subsidiaries.
The contractual arrangements have fixed terms and, consequently, the intangible assets have a finite life which align with the remaining terms which, at the end of the period, range from 2 months to 29 months.
The individual contractual arrangements are amortised in a straight line over the remainder of their terms with the expense being presented directly on the primary statements.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 14.
Categorisation of Financial Instruments At fair value through profit or loss Designated Held for upon initial Loans and trading recognition receivables Total Financial assets m m m m At 31 December 2017 Equity investments 1,085.4 1,085.4 Debt investments 45.2 45.2 Other financial assets Limited and limited liability partnership interests 11.0 11.0 Trade and other receivables 8.3 8.3 Deposits 95.0 95.0 Cash and cash equivalents 231.3 231.3 Total 1,141.6 334.6 1,476.2 At 31 December 2016 Equity investments 594.9 594.9 Debt investments 19.1 19.1 Other financial assets Limited and limited liability partnership interests 4.2 4.2 Trade and other receivables 2.6 2.6 Deposits Cash and cash equivalents 112.3 112.3 Total 618.2 114.9 733.1 All financial liabilities are categorised as other financial liabilities and recognised at amortised cost.
The Group does not consider that any change in fair value of financial assets in the year is attributable to credit risk 2016: nil.
All net fair value gains in the year are attributable to financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition 2016: all net fair value gains attributable to financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
All interest income is attributable to financial assets not classified as fair value through profit and loss.
142 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 15.
Net Investment Portfolio Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 3a Level 3b Equity Equity Unquoted Equity Unquoted Equity investments investments debt investments debt investments in quoted in unquoted investments in unquoted investments in unquoted spin-out spin-out in spin-out spin-out in spin-out spin-out companies companies companies companies companies companies Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 161.1 368.0 19.1 65.8 614.0 Investments during the year 15.2 36.3 11.5 8.2 71.2 Acquired with Touchstone Innovations plc 35.3 131.6 19.9 165.4 352.2 Transaction-based reclassifications during the year 5.6 12.5 6.9 Other transfers between hierarchy levels during the year 13.4 266.7 253.3 Disposals 1.2 0.8 7.8 7.4 Adjustments for deconsolidation of subsidiaries 8.4 42.7 51.1 Fees settled via equity 0.5 0.5 Change in fair value in i the year 1.1 26.9 0.4 23.6 49.0 At 31 December 2017 225.1 302.2 45.2 558.1 1,130.6 At 1 January 2016 201.3 308.6 9.1 33.2 552.2 Investments during the year 10.9 50.9 6.2 1.7 69.7 Transaction-based reclassifications during the year 0.7 0.7 Other transfers between hierarchy levels during the year 39.8 6.7 33.1 Disposals 15.0 0.2 0.1 15.3 Fees settled via equity 0.4 0.4 Change in fair value in i the year 36.1 47.4 2.1 2.2 7.0 At 31 December 2016 161.1 368.0 19.1 65.8 614.0 i The change in fair value in the year includes a loss of 1.1m 2016: gain of 0.7m in exchange differences on translating foreign currency investments.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 15.
Net Investment Portfolio continued In order to align the Groups reporting with that of Touchstone Innovations, we have classified our investments which were previously level 2 as level 3a, and we have re-presented the 2016 investment level data accordingly.
The Groups policy is to classify equity investments in unquoted spin-out companies as Level 3a where prices have been determined from recent investments in the last twelve months.
The impact of changing the qualifying criteria for Level 3a to be determined from recent investments in the last six months would mean 23.0% 2016: 4.4% of the equity investments in unquoted spin-out companies would be reclassified to Level 3b.
Fair values of unquoted spin-out companies classified as Level 3b in the fair value hierarchy have been determined, in part or in full, by valuation techniques that are not supported by observable market prices or rates.
This includes where prices have been determined from the most recent market transaction, but that transaction occurred more than twelve months prior to the balance sheet date, and a variety of other valuation techniques.
Investments in 190 2016: 54 companies have been classified as Level 3b.
If the fair value of all Level 3b investments were to decrease by 10%, the net assets figure would decrease by 28.4m 2016: 6.6m, with a corresponding increase if the unobservable inputs were to increase by 10%.
If the assumptions used in the valuation techniques for the Groups holding in each company are varied by using a range of possible alternatives, there is no material difference to the carrying value of the respective spin-out company.
The effect on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period is also not expected to be material.
Due to the significant increase in the size of the unquoted investment portfolio during the year, which resulted from the acquisition of Touchtone Innovations, the Group have reconsidered the observability of the inputs in all unquoted valuations within the Group and aligned the classification of the level 3 investments with that previously reported by Touchstone Innovations.
The prior year presentation has been reclassified accordingly.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
Transfers between tiers are then made as if the transfer took place on the first day of the period in question, except in the cases of transfers between tiers based on an initial public offering IPO of an investment wherein the changes in value prior to the IPO are calculated and reported in tier 3a, and those changes post are attributed to tier 1.
Transfers between Level 3a and Level 1 occur when a previously unquoted investment undertakes an initial public offering, resulting in its equity becoming quoted on an active market.
In the current period, transfers of this nature amounted to 13.4m 2016: nil.
Transfers between Level 1 and Level 3a would occur when a quoted investments market becomes inactive, or the portfolio company elects to delist.
There have been no such instances in the current period 2016: one instance, nil value.
Transfers between Level 3b and Level 3a occur when an investment which previously had a most recent investment of over twelve months ago undertakes an investment, resulting in an observable market rate.
In the current period, transfers of this nature amounted to 26.7m 2016: 7.3m.
Transfers between Level 3a and Level 3b occur when an investments recent investment becomes more than twelve months old, with the price being deemed unobservable.
In the current period, transfers of this nature amounted to 280.0m 2016: 45.3m.
144 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 15.
Net Investment Portfolio continued 2017 2016 Change in fair value in the year m m Fair value gains 99.3 57.3 Fair value losses 50.3 50.3 49.0 7.0 The Companys interests in subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 2 to the Companys financial statements.
Trade and Other Receivables 2017 2016 m m Trade debtors 1.9 2.3 Prepayments 1.4 0.3 Other receivables 5.0 8.3 2.6 The Directors consider the carrying amount of trade and other receivables to approximate their fair value.
All receivables are interest free, repayable on demand and unsecured.
Contingent Value Rights As a result of the disposal of Proximagen Group plc in August 2012, the Group received contingent consideration, in the form of contingent value rights CVRs, based upon future net revenues of two associated drug programmes.
In line with the Groups policies, these have previously been recognised as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
The Group considers this asset to be Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy throughout the current and previous financial years.
This asset is fair valued at nil 2016: nil and the directors do not expect any value to be realised in the future.
Trade and Other Payables 2017 2016 Current liabilities m m Trade payables 2.0 0.7 Social security expenses 0.7 0.3 Deferred consideration payable 4.3 Redundancy and restructuring cost accrual 2.4 Bonus accrual 2.8 Other accruals and deferred income 7.5 1.1 19.7 2.1 145 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 19.
Borrowings 2017 2016 Non-current liabilities m m EIB debt facility 97.7 14.9 Loans drawn down from the Limited Partners of consolidated funds 13.1 9.8 110.8 24.7 2017 2016 Current liabilities m m EIB debt facility 6.3 6.3 Loans drawn down from the Limited Partners of consolidated funds The loans from Limited Partners of consolidated funds are interest free and repayable only upon the applicable funds generating sufficient returns to repay the Limited Partners.
EIB debt facility On 8 July 2015 the Group secured a 30m, 8-year debt facility from the European Investment Bank.
The facility is to be disbursed in two tranches.
The Group will use the proceeds to continue to fund UK university spin-out companies as they develop and mature.
The first tranche of 15.0m was drawn down on 17 December 2015.
There were 0.1m of initial transaction costs incurred in the arrangement of the facility.
This balance was set against the loan amount and is to be subsequently amortised over the term of the loan.
The associated charge to the statement of comprehensive income for 2017 was nil 2016: nil.
The loan is based on a fixed rate of 1.98% with an additional variable spread equal to the six month GBP Libor rate as at the first date of each six-month interest period.
The capital is repayable in ten equal payments over a five-year period with the first payment due on 7 January 2019.
The second tranche of 15.0m was drawn down on 7 December 2017.
The loan is based on a fixed interest rate of 3.016% and is repayable over a ten year period.
The Group also holds an additional debt facility with the EIB as a consequence of the combination with Touchstone Innovations during the year.
The first tranche of a 30.0m debt facility was drawn down on 30 July 2013.
Transaction costs of 0.2m were incurred to obtain the loan and were set against the loan amount.
These costs are subsequently amortised over the life time of the loan.
The loan is based on a floating interest rate related to LIBOR and is repayable in 10 equal annual instalments over a twelve year period.
The second tranche was drawn down on 30 June 2015.
The loan is based on a fixed interest rate of 4.235% and is repayable over a ten year period.
On 13 July 2015, Touchstone entered a second loan agreement of 50.0m available to draw down in up to four tranches with a minimum tranche value of 10.0m.
There is a non-utilisation fee calculated on the daily undrawn, uncancelled balance of the loan from the date falling six months after the date of the agreement at a rate of 0.10% per annum.
This facility was fully drawn down in February 2017 and is repayable over an eight-year period.
The Touchstone loans contain a debt covenant requiring that the ratio of the total fair value of investments plus cash and qualifying liquidity to debt should a no time fall below 4:1.
The loan also stipulates that on any date, the aggregate of all amounts scheduled for payment to the EIB in the following six months should be kept in a separate bank account.
146 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 19.
Borrowings continued The IP Group loans contain covenants requiring that the ratio between the value of the portfolio along with the value of the Groups cash net of any outstanding liabilities, and the outstanding debt facility does not fall below 6:1.
The Group must maintain that the amount of unencumbered funds freely available to the Group is not less than 15.0m.
The Group is also required to maintain a separate bank account which must at any date maintain a minimum balance equal to that of all payments due to the EIB in the forthcoming six months.
Share Capital 2017 2016 Issued and fully paid: Number m Number m Ordinary Shares of 2p each At 1 January 565,221,967 11.3 564,648,168 11.3 Issued under share placings 131,913,567 2.6 Issued as consideration in acquisitions 359,304,235 7.2 Issued under employee share plans 943,832 573,799 1,057,383,601 21.1 At 31 December 565,221,967 11.3 The Company has one class of ordinary shares with a par value of 2p Ordinary Shares which carry equal voting rights, equal rights to income and distributions of assets on liquidation, or otherwise, and no right to fixed income.
In June 2017, the Group issued 131,357,140 new Ordinary Shares as part of a fund raising which raised 184.7m before expenses at a price of 1.40 per share.
Later in August, an additional subscription for 556,427 Ordinary Shares was made at the same terms as the previous share placing bring total funds raised to 181.0m net of expenses.
In October 2017, the Groups offer to acquire 100% of the share capital of Touchstone Innovations plc became unconditional in all respects and 357,518,520 new Ordinary Shares were issued to the existing Touchstone shareholders in exchange for shares in IP Group plc.
Also in October 2017, the Group issued 1,785,715 new Ordinary Shares as consideration to the sellers of Parkwalk Advisors see Note 27.
In June and November 2017, the Group issued 436,689 new Ordinary Shares in order to settle the exercise of options that had been issued under the Groups Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP, see Note 22.
Finally, in November 2017, the Group issued 507,143 new Ordinary Shares in exchange for Touchstone Innovations shares that were issued under the rules of the Imperial Innovations 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, see Note 22.
Prior to the completion of the all-share acquisition by IP Group, the Remuneration Committee of Touchstone Innovations plc determined that one third of the shares comprised in the 2016 awards granted over shares in Touchstone under the 2016 LTIP would become immediately exercisable upon the IP Group offer becoming wholly unconditional, notwithstanding that the performance conditions had not been met at that time.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 21.
Operating Lease Arrangements 2017 2016 m m Payments under operating leases recognised in the statement of comprehensive 1.1 income for the year 0.5 At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2017 2016 m m Within one year 1.7 0.6 4.6 In the second to fifth years inclusive 3.1 6.3 3.7 Operating lease payments represent rentals by the Group for its office properties.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of five years and rentals are fixed for an average of one year.
Share-Based Payments In 2017, the Group continued to incentivise employees through its LTIP and AIS.
Both are described in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 99.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Awards made to employees under the Groups AIS above a certain threshold include 50% deferred into IP Group equity through the grant of nil-cost options under the Groups DBSP.
The number of nil-cost options granted under the Groups DBSP is determined by the share price at vesting date.
The DBSP options are subject to further time-based vesting over two years typically 50% after year one and 50% after year two.
An analysis of movements in the DBSP options outstanding is as follows:  of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2017 2017 2016 2016 At 1 January 837,995 187,869 AIS deferral shares award during the year 781,148 Exercised during the year 436,689 101,622 Lapsed during the year 6,812 29,400 At 31 December 394,494 837,995 Exercisable at 31 December 86,247 The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had an exercise price in the range of nil 2016: nil and a weighted-average remaining contractual life of 0.3 years 2016: 0.8 years.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised in 2017 was 139.17p 2016: 178.90p.
As the 2017 AIS financial performance targets were met and as the number of DBSP options to be granted in order to defer such elements of the AIS payments as are required under our remuneration policy are based on a percentage of employees salary, the share-based payments line includes the associated share-based payments expense incurred in 2017.
148 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 22.
Share-Based Payments continued Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Awards under the LTIP take the form of conditional awards of ordinary shares of 2p each in the Group which vest over the prescribed performance period to the extent that performance conditions have been met.
The Remuneration Committee imposes objective conditions on the vesting of awards and these take into consideration the guidance of the Groups institutional investors from time to time.
Further information on the Groups LTIP is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 99.
The 2017 LTIP awards were made on 29 August 2017.
The awards will ordinarily vest on 31 March 2020, to the extent that the performance conditions have been met.
The awards are based on the performance of the Groups Hard NAV and Total Shareholder Return TSR.
Both performance measures are combined into a matrix format to most appropriately measure performance relative to the business, as shown in the Directors Remuneration Report within the Groups 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
The total award is subject to an underpin based on the relative performance of the Groups TSR to that of the FTSE 250 index, which can reduce the awards by up to 50%.
The 2017 LTIP matrix is designed such that up to 100% of the award prior to the application of the underpin will vest in full in the event of both Hard NAV increasing by 15% per year on a cumulative basis, from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019, and TSR increasing by 15% per year on a cumulative basis from the date of award to 31 March 2020, using an industry-standard average price period at the beginning and end of the performance period.
Further, the matrix is designed such that 30% of the award shall vest again prior to the application of the underpin if the cumulative increase is 8% per annum for both measures over their respective performance periods threshold performance.
A straight-line sliding scale is applied for performance between the distinct points on the matrix of vesting targets.
The 2016 LTIP awards were made on 16 May 2016.
The awards will ordinarily vest on 31 March 2019, to the extent that the performance conditions have been met.
The 2016 LTIP matrix is designed such that up to 100% of the award prior to the application of the underpin will vest in full in the event of both Hard NAV increasing by 15% per year on a cumulative basis, from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018, and TSR increasing by 15% per year on a cumulative basis from the date of award to 31 March 2019, using an industry-standard average price period at the beginning and end of the performance period.
The 2015 LTIP awards were made on 21 May 2015.
The awards will ordinarily vest on 31 March 2018, to the extent that the performance conditions have been met.
The 2015 LTIP matrix is designed such that up to 100% of the award prior to the application of the underpin will vest in full in the event of both Hard NAV increasing by 15% per year on a cumulative basis, from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017, and TSR increasing by 15% per year on a cumulative basis from the date of award to 31 March 2018, using an industry-standard average price period at the beginning and end of the performance period.
The 2014 LTIP awards did not meet the threshold performance target and lapsed on 31 March 2017.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 22.
Share-Based Payments continued The movement in the number of shares conditionally awarded under the LTIP is set out below:  of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2017 2017 2016 2016 At 1 January 5,614,837 3,378,595 Lapsed during the year 1,227,666 349,655 Forfeited during the year 3,766 144,294 Vested during the year 457,877 Notionally awarded during the year 4,682,712 3,188,078 9,066,117 At 31 December 5,614,837 Exercisable at 31 December The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had an exercise price in the range of nil 2016: nil and a weighted-average remaining contractual life of 1.6 years 2016: 1.6 years.
The fair value of LTIP shares notionally awarded during 2017 was calculated using Monte Carlo pricing models with the following key assumptions: 2017 2016 Share price at date of award 1.151 1.558 Exercise price nil nil Fair value at grant date 0.34 0.41 Expected volatility median of historical 50-day moving average 36% 31% Expected life years 3.0 2.83 Expected dividend yield 0% 0% Risk-free interest rate 0.4% 1.0% Former Touchstone LTIP Also in 2017, as a result of the combination with Touchstone, award holders under existing Touchstone long term incentive share schemes were entitled to receive 2.2178 new IP Group shares in exchange for each Touchstone share, an exchange ratio set out in the Offer Document for the acquisition the Exchange Ratio.
2016 schemes: It was proposed that given the short period of time since grant, awards would not become exercisable in connection with the Offer and therefore that no progress towards meeting performance targets had been made.
Instead award holders were offered the opportunity to release their awards in exchange for the grant of a replacement award of equivalent value over shares in IP Group and the exercise price was set at 3.33 pence divided by the Exchange Ratio.
The vesting dates on the replacement awards remained the same as the original award being 1 December 2020, 1 December 2022 and 1 December 2022.
The replacement awards are subject to performance conditions adjusted from those attaching to the original Touchstone award as follows: a the Net Asset Value NAV condition will be adjusted to reflect Touchstones portfolio being part of the enlarged group following the acquisition and b the Total Shareholder Return TSR condition will be adjusted so that TSR shall be measured by reference to the performance of IP Group shares over the performance period with the starting share price for such purpose being adjusted by dividing the existing starting share price of 290 pence by the exchange ratio detailed above.
The TTO specific targets remain the same.
150 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 22.
Share-Based Payments continued  of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2017 2017 2016 2016 At 1 January Replacement shares awarded on 17 October 2017 2,875,606 Forfeited during the year Vested during the year At 31 December 2,875,606 Exercisable at 31 December The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had an exercise price of 0.015 2016: nil and a weightedaverage remaining contractual life of 2.7 years 2016: n a.
2006 schemes: Holders of 2006 Touchstone awards were offered the opportunity to release each of their awards in exchange for the grant of a replacement award of equivalent value over shares in IP Group.
The exercise period and timebased vesting provisions for the replacement awards remained the same as the original Touchstone awards but the shareholder return performance condition will be updated by reference to the Exchange Ratio.
Awards under the 2006 scheme were exercisable to some extent at the time of the grant of replacement awards, subject to meeting the applicable vesting conditions.
 of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price 2017 2017 2016 2016 At 1 January Replacement shares awarded on 17 October 2017 1,808,001 2.13 At 31 December 1,808,001 2.13 1,808,001 2.13 Exercisable at 31 December The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 had an exercise price of 2.13 2016: nil and a weightedaverage remaining contractual life of 6.9 years 2016: 7.9 years.
Share-Based Payments continued Former Fusion IP LTIP In 2014, three former employees of Fusion IP plc were each conditionally awarded 1,000,000 shares in Fusion IP plc under the Fusion IP LTIP.
As part of the arrangements for the acquisition of Fusion IP plc, the Fusion IP LTIP awards were converted into awards over IP Group shares at the same conversion price per share as the scheme of arrangement was undertaken 0.446 IP Group plc shares for every Fusion IP plc share.
The awards were scheduled to vest on 31 December 2017 provided certain performance conditions are met which related to, inter alia, the growth in value of Fusion IP plcs net asset value Fusion NAV from the date of acquisition and the continued employment of the individual by the Group.
The options expired on 31 December 2017 as vesting criteria had not been met.
The movement in the number of shares conditionally awarded under the Former Fusion IP LTIP is set out below: 2017 2016 At 1 January 1,338,000 1,338,000 Expired during the year 1,338,000 At 31 December 1,338,000 Fair value charge The fair value charge recognised in the statement of comprehensive income during the year in respect of all share-based payments, including the DBSP, LTIP and Former Fusion IP LTIP, was 2.4m 2016: 1.5m.
Limited and Limited Liability Partnership Interests m At 1 January 2016 4.4 Additions during the year 0.1 Realisations in the year Change in fair value during the year 0.3 At 1 January 2017 4.2 Additions during the year 1.4 Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary 5.6 Realisations in the year Change in fair value during the year 0.2 At 31 December 2017 11.0 The Group considers interests in Limited and Limited Liability Partnerships to be Level 3b in the fair value hierarchy throughout the current and previous financial years.
152 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 24.
Related Party Transactions The Group has various related parties arising from its key management, subsidiaries, equity stakes in portfolio companies and management of certain Limited Partnership funds.
a Limited Partnerships The Group manages a number of investment funds structured as Limited Partnerships.
Group entities have a Limited Partnership interest see note 1 and act as the general partners of these Limited Partnerships.
The Group therefore has power to exert significant influence over these Limited Partnerships.
The following amounts have been included in respect of these Limited Partnerships: 2017 2016 Statement of comprehensive income m m Revenue from services 0.7 0.9 2017 2016 Statement of financial position m m Investment in limited partnerships 2.6 2.8 Amounts due from related parties 0.7 0.2 b Key management personnel i Key management personnel transactions Key management had investments in the following spin-out companies as at 31 December 2017: Number Number Shares of shares of shares Director held at acquired held at Company 1 January disposed in 31 December Secretary Company name 2017 the period 2017 % Alan Aubrey Accelercomm Limited 333 333 0.3% Alesi Surgical Limited 18 18 0.2% Amaethon Limited A Shares 104 104 3.1% Amaethon Limited B Shares 11,966 11,966 1.0% Amaethon Limited Ordinary shares 21 21 0.3% Avacta Group plc 202,761 202,761 0.3% Boxarr Limited 1,732 1,732 0.3% Capsant Neurotechnologies Limited 11,631 11,631 0.8% Crysalin Limited 1,447 1,447 0.1% iv Ditto AI Limited 119,965,750 119,965,750 17.7% Diurnal Group plc 15,000 15,000 0.1% EmDot Limited 15 15 0.9% Getech Group plc 15,000 15,000 0.1% Gunsynd plc 767,310 767,310 0.1% hVivo plc 37,160 37,160 0.1% Ilika plc 69,290 69,290 0.1% v Istesso Limited 1,185,150 1,185,150 1.7% Karus Therapeutics Limited 223 223 0.1% Microbiotica Limited 3,750 6,250 10,000 0.1% i Mirriad Advertising plc 33,333 33,333 0.1% MDL 2016 Limited Ordinary shares 3,226 3,226 0.4% MDL 2016 Limited A shares 229 229 0.5% Modern Water plc 519,269 519,269 0.7% Cronin Group plc 2,172,809 2,172,809 0.4% 153 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 24.
Related Party Transactions continued Number Number Shares of shares of shares Director held at acquired held at Company 1 January disposed in 31 December Secretary Company name 2017 the period 2017 % Alan Aubrey Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited 101,208 101,208 0.4% continued Perachem Holdings plc 108,350 108,350 0.8% Salunda Limited 53,639 53,639 0.1% Structure Vision Limited 212 212 1.0% Surrey Nanosystems Limited 453 453 0.3% Tissue Regenix Group plc 2,389,259 2,389,259 0.3% Xeros Technology Group plc 40,166 40,166 0.1% Zeetta Networks Limited 424 424 0.1% Mike Townend Amaethon Limited A Shares 104 104 3.1% Amaethon Limited B Shares 11,966 11,966 1.0% Amaethon Limited Ordinary shares 21 21 0.3% Applied Graphene Materials plc 7,619 7,619 0.1% Avacta Group plc 20,001 20,001 0.1% Capsant Neurotechnologies Limited 11,282 11,282 0.8% Creavo Technologies Limited 117 117 0.1% Crysalin Limited 1,286 1,286 0.1% iv Ditto AI Limited 25 25 Diurnal Group plc 15,000 15,000 0.1% EmDot Limited 14 14 0.8% Getech Group plc 20,000 20,000 0.1% Istesso Limited 1,185,150 1,185,150 1.7% Ilika plc 10,000 10,000 0.1% iii Itaconix plc 64,940 64,940 0.1% i Mirriad Advertising plc 25,000 25,000 0.1% Mode Diagnostics Limited 1,756 1,756 0.1% Modern Water plc 575,000 575,000 0.7% Cronin Group plc 932,944 932,944 0.2% Oxford Advanced Surfaces Limited 5,000 5,000 0.2% Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited 30,967 30,967 0.1% Perachem Holdings plc 113,222 113,222 0.8% Structure Vision Limited 212 212 1.0% Surrey Nanosystems Limited 404 404 0.2% Tissue Regenix Group plc 1,950,862 1,950,862 0.3% Ultrahaptics Holdings Limited 35 1,189 1,224 0.1% Xeros Technology Group plc 35,499 35,499 0.1% Greg Smith Alesi Surgical Limited 2 2 0.1% Avacta Group plc 3,904 3,904 0.1% Capsant Neurotechnologies Limited 896 896 0.1% Crysalin Limited 149 149 0.1% iv Ditto AI Limited 8 8 Diurnal Group plc 15,000 15,000 0.1% EmDot Limited 4 4 0.2% Encos Limited 5,671 5,671 0.3% 154 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 24.
Related Party Transactions continued Number Number Shares of shares of shares Director held at acquired held at Company 1 January disposed in 31 December Secretary Company name 2017 the period 2017 % Greg Smith Getech Group plc 8,000 8,000 0.1% continued hVivo plc 61,340 61,340 0.1% Istesso Limited 313,425 313,425 0.5% Perachem Holdings plc 4,830 4,830 0.1% i Mirriad Advertising plc 16,667 16,667 0.1% MDL 2016 Limited Ordinary shares 361 361 0.1% MDL 2016 Limited A shares 28 28 0.1% Modern Water plc 7,250 7,250 0.1% Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited 1,581 1,581 0.1% Summit Therapeutics plc 798 798 0.1% Surrey Nanosystems Limited 88 88 0.1% Tissue Regenix Group plc 50,000 50,000 0.1% Xeros Technology Group plc 1,392 1,392 0.1% David Baynes Alesi Surgical Limited 4 4 0.1% Arkivum Limited 377 377 0.1% Creavo Technologies Limited 46 46 0.1% Diurnal Group plc 73,000 73,000 0.1% i Mirriad Advertising plc 16,667 16,667 0.1% Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited 174 174 0.1% Ultrahaptics Holdings Limited 26 26 0.1% Zeetta Networks Limited 424 424 0.1% Angela Leach Alesi Surgical Limited 2 2 0.1% Avacta Group plc 1,897 1,897 0.1% Boxarr Limited 102 102 0.1% Capsant Neurotechnologies Limited 1,858 1,858 0.1% Creavo Technologies Limited 23 23 0.1% Cronin Group plc 68,101 68,101 0.1% iv Ditto AI Limited 10 10 Diurnal Group plc 11,500 11,500 0.1% Gunsynd plc 7,990 7,990 0.1% First Light Fusion Limited 17 10 27 0.1% Getech Group plc 2,083 2,083 0.1% hVivo plc 25,903 25,903 0.1% Istesso Limited 322,923 322,923 0.5% i Mirriad Advertising plc 16,667 16,667 0.1% MDL 2016 Limited Ordinary Shares 606 606 0.1% MDL 2016 Limited A Shares 102 102 0.2% Modern Water plc 15,570 15,570 0.1% Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited 1,782 1,782 0.1% Structure Vision Limited 21 21 0.1% Surrey Nanosystems Limited 90 90 0.1% Tissue Regenix Group plc 276,791 276,791 0.1% Ultrahaptics Holdings Limited 5 5 0.1% Ultrahaptics Holdings Limited 5 5 0.1% Xeros Technology Group plc 5,666 5,666 0.1% i Mirriad Advertising plc was formerly known as Mirriad Advertising Limited ii Cloud Sustainability Limited was acquired during the year by Ditto AI Limited iii Itaconix plc was formerly known as Revolymer plc iv Ditto AI Limited was formerly known as Empircom Limited v Istesso Limited was formerly known as Modern Biosciences plc 155 Stock Code: IPO www.
Related Party Transactions continued ii Key management personnel compensation Key management personnel compensation comprised the following: 2017 2016 000s 000s i Short-term employee benefits 2,144 1,489 ii Post-employment benefits 116 71 Other long-term benefits Termination benefits iii Share-based payments 837 623 3,097 Total 2,183 i Represents key management personnels base salaries, benefits including cash in lieu of pension where relevant, and the cash settled element of the Annual Incentive Scheme.
ii Represents employer contributions to defined contribution pension and life assurance plans iii Represents the accounting charge for share based payments, reflecting LTIP and DBSP options currently in issue as part of these schemes.
See note 22 for a detailed description of these schemes.
c Portfolio companies i Services The Group earns fees from the provision of business support services and corporate finance advisory to portfolio companies in which the Group has an equity stake.
Through the lack of control over portfolio companies these fees are considered arms-length transactions.
The following amounts have been included in respect of these fees: 2017 2016 Statement of comprehensive income m m Revenue from services 1.9 1.6 2017 2016 Statement of financial position m m Trade receivables 0.5 0.7 156 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 24.
Related Party Transactions continued ii Investments The Group makes investments in the equity and debt of unquoted and quoted investments where it does not have control but may be able to participate in the financial and operating policies of that company.
It is presumed that it is possible to exert significant influence when the equity holding is greater than 20%.
The Group has taken the investment entity exception as permitted by IFRS 10 and has not equity accounted for these investments, in accordance with IAS 28, but they are related parties.
The total amounts included for investments where the Group has significant influence but not control are as follows: 2017 2016 Statement of comprehensive income m m Net gains losses on disposals 0.7 49.0 Change in fair value of equity and debt investments 17.9 2017 2016 Statement of financial position m m 619.5 Equity and debt investments 200.7 d Subsidiary companies Subsidiary companies that are not 100% owned either directly or indirectly by the parent Company have intercompany balances with other Group companies totalling as follows: 2017 2016 Statement of financial position m m Intercompany balances with other Group companies 3.2 10.7 These intercompany balances represent funding loans provided by Group companies that are interest free, repayable on demand and unsecured.
Capital Management The Groups key objective when managing capital is to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
The Group sets the amount of capital in proportion to risk.
The Group manages the capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of its underlying assets.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of issued new shares or dispose of interests in more mature portfolio companies.
During 2017, the Groups strategy, which was unchanged from 2016, was to maintain healthy cash and shortterm deposit balances that enable it to provide capital to all portfolio companies, as determined by the Groups investment committee, whilst having sufficient cash reserves to meet all working capital requirements in the foreseeable future.
The Group has an external debt facility with associated covenants that are described in Note 19.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 26.
Capital Commitments Commitments to university partnerships A number of the Groups partnerships with research intensive universities in the UK include certain arrangements to provide seed capital to spin-out companies arising from such universities.
As at 31 December 2017, the balances were as follows: Year of Original Remaining commencement of commitment Invested to commitment Partnership partnership m date m m i University of Southampton 2002 5.0 3.6 1.4 ii Kings College London 2003 5.0 1.8 3.2 iii University of York CNAP 2003 0.8 0.2 0.6 iv University of Leeds 2005 4.2 1.5 2.7 v University of Bristol 2005 5.0 1.2 3.8 vi University of Surrey 2006 5.0 0.5 4.5 iii University of York 2006 5.0 0.3 4.7 vii Queen Mary University of London 2006 5.0 0.8 4.2 viii University of Bath 2006 5.0 0.4 4.6 ix University of Glasgow 2006 5.0 2.0 3.0 x University of Manchester 2013 7.5 0.5 7.0 52.5 12.8 39.7 i Under the terms of an agreement entered into in 2002 between the Group, the University of Southampton and certain of the University of Southamptons subsidiaries, IP2IPO Limited agreed to make 5.0m available for the purposes of making investments in University of Southampton spin-out companies.
ii Under the terms of an agreement entered into during 2003 between the Group and Kings College London KCL and Kings College London Business Limited formerly KCL Enterprises Limited, the Group agreed to make 5.0m available for the purposes of making investments in spin-out companies.
Under the terms of this agreement, KCL was previously able to require the Company to make a further 5.0m available for investments in spin-out companies on the tenth anniversary of the partnership.
However, the 2003 agreement was terminated and replaced by a revised agreement between the same parties on 12 November 2010.
Under the revised agreement, the Group agreed to target investing the remaining commitment of 3.2m over a three-year period: KCL cannot, however, require the Group to make any additional funds available.
Other changes effected by the revised agreement included the removal of the Groups automatic entitlement to initial partner equity in every spin-out company and or a share of KCLs licensing fees from intellectual property commercialisation and to the termination rights of the parties.
iii In 2003, the Group entered into an agreement with the University of York.
The agreement relates to a specialist research centre within the University of York, the Centre for Novel Agricultural Products CNAP.
The Group has committed to invest up to a total of 0.8m in spin-out companies based on CNAPs intellectual property.
In 2006, the Group extended its partnership with the University of York to cover the entire university.
The Group has committed to invest 5.0m in University of York spinouts over and beyond the 0.8m commitment as part of the Groups agreement with CNAP.
The agreement with the University of York was amended during 2013 so as to alter the process by which the Group evaluates commercialisation opportunities and the level of initial partner equity the Group is entitled to as a result.
Further, the Groups automatic entitlement to share in any of the University of Yorks proceeds from out-licensing has been removed from the agreement.
iv The Group extended its partnership with the University of Leeds in July 2005 by securing the right with associated contractual commitment to invest up to 5.0m in University of Leeds spin-out companies.
This agreement was varied in March 2011 to, amongst other things, remove the Groups entitlement to a share of outlicensing income generated by the University of Leeds except in certain specific circumstances where the Group is involved in the relevant out-licensing opportunity.
Under the terms of the variation agreement, subject to quality and quantity of the investment opportunities, the Group, IP Assist Services Limited and the University of Leeds have agreed to target annual investments of at least 0.7m in aggregate and, subject to earlier termination or the parties otherwise agreeing alternative target, to review this target on 30 April 2017. v In December 2005, the Group entered into an agreement with the University of Bristol.
The Group has committed to invest up to a total of 5.0m in University of Bristol spin-out companies.
vi Under the terms of an agreement entered into in 2006 between the Group and the University of Surrey, the Group has committed to invest up to a total of 5.0m in spin-out companies based on the University of Surreys intellectual property.
vii In July 2006, the Group entered into an agreement with Queen Mary University of London QM to invest in QM spin-out companies.
The Group has committed to invest up to a total of 5.0m in QM spin-out companies.
The agreement was amended in January 2014, primarily to remove the Groups entitlement to licence fees save where it is involved in the development or licensing of the relevant IP and, in most cases, to replace the Groups automatic entitlement to a share of the initial equity in any spin-out company with an equivalent warrant exercisable at the seed stage of the relevant company.
viii In September 2006, the Group entered into an agreement with the University of Bath to invest in University of Bath spin-out companies.
The Group has committed to invest up to a total of 5.0m in University of Bath spin-out companies.
The agreement with the University of Bath was amended during 2009 so as to remove the Groups automatic entitlement to a share of the initial equity or licence fees as applicable received by the University of Bath from the commercialisation of its intellectual property in the event that the Group and its employees have not been actively involved in developing the relevant opportunity.
ix In October 2006, the Group entered into an agreement with the University of Glasgow to invest in University of Glasgow spin-out companies.
The Group has committed to invest up to a total of 5.0m in University of Glasgow spin-out companies.
x In February 2013, the Group entered into a commercialisation agreement with the University of Manchester.
Initially the Group had agreed to make available an initial facility of up to 5.0m to provide capital to new proof of principle projects excluding graphene projects intended for commercialisation through spin-out companies.
During January 2014, the Group extended its agreement to include funding for graphene projects: increased the capital commitment by a further 2.5m, bringing the total to 7.5m: and extended the agreement to 2019. xi 158 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 26.
Capital Commitments continued Commitments to limited partnerships Pursuant to the terms of their Limited Partnership agreements, the Group has committed to invest the following amounts into Limited Partnerships as at 31 December 2017: Year of Original Invested to Remaining commencement of commitment date commitment Partnership partnership m m m IP Venture Fund 2006 3.1 3.0 0.1 IP Venture Fund II L. P. 2013 10.0 6.6 3.4 UCL Technology Fund LP 2016 24.8 6.1 18.7 Apollo Therapeutics LLP 2016 3.3 0.4 2.9 Total 41.2 16.1 25.1 27.
Acquisition of subsidiaries The Group completed two corporate transactions in 2017, the combination with AIM-listed Touchstone Innovations plc in October and the acquisition of Parkwalk Advisors Ltd in January.
Touchstone Innovations creates, builds and invests in technology companies and licensing opportunities developed from scientific research from the Golden Triangle, the geographical region broadly bounded by London, Cambridge and Oxford and Parkwalk is the UKs leading university spin-out focused EIS fund manager.
Touchstone Innovations plc: On 17 October 2017 the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares in Touchstone Innovations in exchange for 357,518,520 ordinary shares in IP Group plc.
The acquisition has been accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 include the results of Touchstone Innovations for the period post the acquisition date.
Fair value net assets liabilities m Net assets acquired Acquired intangible assets 6.9 Investment portfolio 352.2 Other non-current assets 6.7 Trade and trade receivables 2.9 Cash and cash equivalents 119.1 Current liabilities 7.5 Non-current liabilities 88.3 Net assets 392.0 Goodwill 108.5 Total consideration 500.5 Consideration satisfied by: i Issue of share capital 357,518,520 IP Group ordinary shares at 140.0 pence per share 500.5 i Being the closing price of IP Group plc shares on 17 October 2017, the date of acquisition 159 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 27.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued Goodwill recognised on acquisition of Touchstone relates to the value attributable to its access to early stage commercialisation activities with top tier UK universities and the benefits from increased scale and critical mass and a more diverse portfolio the Group expects to benefit from.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
In the period since acquisition, Touchstone contributed 3.8m in portfolio return and revenue and profit of 0.3m to the Groups results.
Ordinarily the Group would also disclose the group consolidated revenue and profit had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2017 in accordance with IFRS 3 however, management have determined it impractical to do so.
It has been determined to be impractical as the retrospective application requires assumptions about what managements intent would have been for the period and also requires significant estimates of amounts and it is impossible to distinguish objectively information about those estimates that provides evidence of circumstances that existed on the dates as at which those amounts are to be recognised, measured and disclosed and would have been available when the financial statements for that prior period were authorised for issue from other information.
Specifically, this relates to the valuation of unquoted equity investments.
In accordance with the terms of the acquisition agreement, the Group exchanged equity-settled share based payment awards held by employees of Touchstone for equity settled share based payment awards of IP Group.
The details of the acquirees awards and replacement awards were as follows: Acquirees awards Replacement awards Terms and conditions Scheme 1: Grant date: 26 11 2014 n a Vesting date: 26 11 2019 26 11 2024 26 11 2019 26 11 2024 Service conditions: Continued employment Continued employment Fair value at acquisition: 0.4 0.4 Scheme 2: Grant date: 04 11 2015 n a Vesting date: 26 11 2019 26 11 2024 26 11 2019 26 11 2024 Service conditions: Continued employment Continued employment Fair value at acquisition: 0.4 0.4 Scheme 3: Grant date: 23 11 2016 n a Vesting date: 02 12 2019 02 12 2019 Service conditions: Continued employment Continued employment Fair value at acquisition: 0.2m 0.2m Scheme 4: Grant date: 23 11 2016 n a Vesting date: 02 12 2020 02 12 2020 Service conditions: Continued employment Continued employment Fair value at acquisition: 0.2m 0.2m 160 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 27.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued Acquirees awards Replacement awards Scheme 5: Grant date: 23 11 2016 n a Vesting date: 02 12 2021 02 12 2020 Service conditions: Continued employment Continued employment Fair value at acquisition: 0.2m 0.2m Scheme 6: Grant date: 17 10 2017 n a Vesting date: 02 12 2022 02 12 2022 Service conditions: Continued employment Continued employment Fair value at acquisition: 0.3m 0.3m The value of the total replacement awards was 1.7m.
The Group incurred acquisition costs of 6.2m and a further 2.9m of restructuring costs in relation to the combination with Touchstone.
Further details on acquisition and restructuring costs are included in note 8.
Parkwalk Advisors Ltd: On 31 January 2017, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Parkwalk Advisors Ltd Parkwalk, the UKs leading university spin-out focused EIS fund manager.
The initial consideration comprises 5.0m payable in cash, 2.5m payable in the form of newly issued IP Group ordinary shares and an additional working capital payment of 1.8m.
Fair value net assets liabilities m Net assets acquired Net assets 1.5 Acquired intangible assets 2.1 Net assets 3.6 Goodwill 5.7 Total consideration 9.3 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 6.8 Issue of share capital 2.5 Total consideration paid includes the cost of cash paid, shares issued to date and the present value of contingent amounts expected to be paid Goodwill recognised on the acquisition of Parkwalk is attributable to the technical skills, experience and track record of its investment and marketing teams in its niche sector as specialist EIS fund manager, its significant assets under management and its strong links to leading UK universities.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued For the period from acquisition to 31 December 2017, Parkwalk contributed net revenue of 3.2m and profit of 1.6m to the Groups results.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017, management estimates that the consolidated net revenue would have been 4.5m and consolidated profit would have been 1.9m.
In determining these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value adjustments, determined provisionally, that arose on the date of acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2017.
Consideration of 9.3m has been recognised to date, and a further 4.4m cost has been recognised in relation to the deferred and contingent consideration payable to the sellers in the year and deemed under IFRS3 to represent a payment for post-acquisition services.
The Group incurred acquisition costs of 0.1m in relation to the acquisition of Parkwalk in January and a further 0.4m was incurred in 2016 which comprised legal and due diligence fees.
Alternative Performance Measures APM IP Group management believes that the alternative performance measures included in this document provide valuable information to the readers of the financial statements as they enable the reader to identify a more consistent basis for comparing the business performance between financial periods and provide more detail concerning the elements of performance which the managers of the Group are most directly able to influence or are relevant for an assessment of the Group.
They also reflect an important aspect of the way in which operating targets are defined and performance is monitored by the directors.
These measures are not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other companies APMs, including those in the Groups industry.
APMs should be considered in addition to, and are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements.
The Directors believe that these APMs assist in providing additional useful information on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group.
APMs are used to enhance the comparability of information between reporting periods and aid the user in understanding the Groups performance.
Consequently, APMs are used by the Directors and management for performance analysis, planning, reporting and incentive-setting purposes.
162 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 28.
Alternative Performance Measures APM continued Calculation Reference for 2017 2016 APM reconciliation Definition and purpose m m Hard NAV Primary Hard NAV is defined as the Total equity 1,508.5 768.7 statements total equity of the Group less intangible assets.
Excluding intangible assets Excluding: highlights the Groups assets Goodwill 172.1 57.1 that management can be reasonably expected to Other 10.2 5.1 influence in the short term intangible and therefore reflects the assets short-term resources available Hard NAV 1,326.2 706.5 to drive future performance.
Additionally, excluding intangible assets allows better comparison with the Groups competitors, many of which operate under fund structures and therefore would not include intangible assets.
The measure shows tangible assets managed by the Group.
It is used as a performance metric for directors and employees as a part of annual incentives in the Group.
Hard NAV Primary Hard NAV per share is defined Hard NAV 1,326.2m 706.5m per share statements as Hard NAV, as defined above, divided by the number of Shares in issue 1,057,383,601 565,648,168 note 20 shares in issue.
The measure shows tangible assets managed by the Group Hard NAV per 125.4p 125.0p per share in issue.
It is a useful share measure to compare to the Groups share price.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 28.
Alternative Performance Measures APM continued Calculation Reference for 2017 2016 APM reconciliation Definition and purpose m m Return on Primary Return on Hard NAV is defined Total 53.4 14.7 Hard NAV statements as the total comprehensive comprehensive income or loss for the year income excluding charges which do Excluding: not impact on Hard NAV, specifically amortisation of Amortisation 3.9 5.6 intangible assets, share based of intangible payment charges and the assets charge in respect of deferred Share based 2.4 1.5 and contingent consideration payment deemed to represent post charge acquisition services under IFRS3.
IFRS3 charge 4.4 in respect of Return on Hard NAV is defined acquisition of as the total comprehensive subsidiary income or loss for the year excluding charges which do Return on 64.1 7.6 not impact on Hard NAV, Hard NAV specifically amortisation of intangible assets, share based payment charges and the charge in respect of deferred and contingent consideration deemed to represent post acquisition services under IFRS3.
The measure shows a summary of the income statement gains and losses which directly impact Hard NAV.
Return on Primary Return on Hard NAV excluding Return on Hard 64.1 7.6 Hard NAV statements acquisition and restructuring NAV excluding costs is defined as Return on Excluding: acquisition Hard NAV, as above, excluding and acquisition and restructuring Acquisition 9.1 0.4 restructuring costs.
and costs restructuring The measure shows the costs profit for the year excluding accounting adjustments Return on 73.2 7.2 and material one-off costs Hard NAV in relation to the corporate excluding transactions.
It allows for easier acquisition and comparison with previous restructuring periods and normalises the costs performance return for the reader.
164 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Financials Group notes 28.
Alternative Performance Measures APM continued Calculation Reference for 2017 2016 APM reconciliation Definition and purpose m m Return on Primary Return on Hard NAV excluding Return on Hard 73.2 7.2 Hard NAV statements acquisition and restructuring NAV excluding excluding costs and Touchstone acquisition and acquisition profits since acquisition for restructuring and AIS performance targets is costs restructuring defined as Return on Hard Excluding: costs and NAV excluding acquisition and Touchstone restructuring costs, as above, Touchstone 0.3 profits since further excluding Touchstone profit from 17 acquisition net results in the period from October 2017 for AIS acquisition to year end.
performance Return on 72.9 7.2 targets This measure has been Hard NAV agreed by the Remuneration excluding Committee as the most acquisition and appropriate basis for short restructuring term performance or AIS costs and targets in the year due to the Touchstone costs and performance not profits since controllable by employees acquisition eligible for the scheme.
Net portfolio Note 15 Net portfolio gains are Change in fair 49.0 7.0 gains defined as the movement in value of equity the value of holdings in the and debt portfolio due to share price investments movements or impairments Gain on 0.1 0.5 in value, gains or losses on disposal realisation of investments and of equity gains or losses on disposals of investments subsidiaries.
Gain on 45.1 The measure shows a summary disposal of of the income statement gains subsidiary and losses which are directly attributable to the portfolio Net portfolio 94.2 6.5 which is a headline measure gains for the Groups performance.
This is a key driver of the Return on Hard NAV which is the performance metric for directors and employees annual incentives.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONTINUED 29.
Post Balance Sheet Events Between 31 December 2017 and the date of these reports and accounts the fair value of the Groups holdings in companies whose shares are listed on the AIM market experienced a net fair value decrease of 30.1m.
In March 2018 portfolio company Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited announced it had raised 100m in new investment.
Funds were raised from global investors including GIC Singapore, CCB International China, Hostplus Australia and existing investors.
The funds will be used to support the companys next stage of commercial expansion.
166 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine
