Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Hansteen Holdings PLC Opinion on financial statements of Hansteen Holdings PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Hansteen Holdings PLC the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated cash flow statement: and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Investment property valuations.
Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 10.8 million which was determined on the basis of 2% of net assets.
In addition to net assets, we considered EPRA Earnings as defined in note 14 to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group and we applied a lower threshold of 1.5 million for items affecting EPRA Earnings.
Scoping We have performed a full scope audit over 96% of the Revenue, 99% of the Profit before tax and 96% of the Groups net assets.
Significant changes in We have identified the Founder LTIP as a key audit matter for 2017 due to the quantum of the charge in ourapproach the current year, the estimates made by management in determining the charge and the complexity in the calculation due to the return of capital in the year.
