Notes to the financial statements 1.
General information Hansteen Holdings PLC is a company which was incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales on 27 October2005.
The Company is required to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered officeis1st Floor, Pegasus House, 37-43 Sackville Street, London W1S 3DL.
The Groups principal activity is investing in predominantly industrial properties in the United Kingdom.
These financial statements are presented in Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Adoption of new and revised standards In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2017.
Their adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2014-2016 Annual Improvements to IFRSs At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 2 amendments Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IAS 40 amendments Transfers of Investment Property Annual improvements to IFRS 2014-2016 Cycle Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective for the current accounting period.
Certain standards which could be expected to have an impact on the financial statements are discussed in further detailbelow.
Title of standard IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Nature of change IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 and addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
It simplifies the existing categories of financial instruments, introduces an expected credit loss model and redefines the criteria required for hedge effectiveness.
Impact On adoption of the new standard, these changes are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
There will however be limited changes to presentation and disclosure.
Date of adoption Mandatory for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group will apply the new rules byGroup retrospectively from 1 January 2018, with the practical expedients permitted under the standard.
Comparatives for 2018 are not expected to be restated.
Title of standard IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Nature of change IFRS 15 combines and replaces a number of previous standards, setting out a five step model for the recognition of revenue based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or service transfers to a customer.
The standard also establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows.
The standard permits either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach for the adoption.
Impact Management has assessed the effects of applying the new standard on the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue recognition IFRS 15 does not apply to investment property rental income as this falls under the scope of IAS 17 Leases.
The standard will apply to non-core revenue streams: service charge income, trading property sales and management fees.
At present the Group does not estimate IFRS 15 to have a significant difference in the amount or timing of the recognition of revenue for the non-core income streams that fall under the scope and an immaterial impact on the Group Income Statement.
Disclosures The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements.
These are expected to change the nature and extent of the Groups revenue disclosures.
The Group intends to adopt the standard using byGroup the modified retrospective approach which means that the cumulative impact of the adoption will be recognised in retained earnings as of 1 January 2018 and that comparatives will not be restated.
64 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Financial statements
