Notes to the financial statements | continued 4.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued In 2017 the Group had a number of one-off and complex transactions.
These include the following: There are judgements surrounding the German and Dutch portfolio disposal in respect of the presentation in the Group accounts, recycling of the translation reserve and considerations associated with the tax implications of the transaction.
These transactions were accounted for as discontinued operations under IFRS 5 on the basis that the German and Dutch portfolio represented a separate major line of business and geographical area of operations.
The results of the discontinued operations are disclosed in note 15.
The acquisition of Industrial Multi Property Trust PLC occurred over a period of approximately six months in several stages.
Key judgements arose as to whether to account for the transaction as a business combination or asset acquisition and how to account for an acquisition achieved in stages.
The Group assessed that no Process had been acquired as part of the transaction and therefore it had not acquired a business.
On this basis the transaction was not accounted for as a business combination but rather as an asset acquisition.
The additions to investment properties are disclosed in note 18.
In 2016, the Group acquired the remaining Units of Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust and Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust.
These transactions were accounted for as business combinations.
Accounting for investments in associates Determining the appropriateness of accounting for investments in associates in 2016 requires management to assess the control the Group has over an investee, specifically, the power the Group has over the investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of investor returns.
As noted above, in 2016 the Group acquired the remaining Units of Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust.
As a result of this transaction, the Groups investment in Ashtenne Industrial Fund Unit Trust is now fully consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking.
Prior to this transaction, the Groups investment was equity accounted for, the Directors having formed a judgement that it should be classified as an associated undertaking.
This judgement was made on the basis that while the Group exercised significant influence, it did not at that time have control.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty that may have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are set out below.
Investment property valuations In determining the fair value of investment properties there is a degree of uncertainty and judgement involved.
The valuations are based on a number of assumptions, the significant ones of which are the appropriate discount rates, estimates of future rental income and capital expenditure.
The Group uses external professional valuers to provide independent valuations of the investment properties.
Details of the investment property valuations undertaken during the year, including the significant assumptions made and inputs used in the valuation process, as well as the key sensitivity variables, are set out in note 18.
Recognition of expense for share-based payments In determining whether an expense should be recognised in relation to the Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP, the Directors are required to form a judgement over the likelihood of an award vesting.
The current performance period runs from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018.
In determining the charge to be recognised in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, the Directors have performed a detailed calculation to estimate the profits expected in 2018.
A pro rata charge has been recognised in the 2017 accounts.
One of the key drivers for the Founder LTIP is the revaluation of investment properties.
A key assumption in determining managements estimate of the Founder LTIP charge is that no future valuation movement is assumed in the calculation of this estimate.
A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to assess the impact on the Founder LTIP charge from a movement in the valuation of the investment portfolio.
A 1% increase, or decrease, in the investment property valuation would correspondingly increase, or decrease, the charge by 1.1 million for the year ended 31 December 2017.
This sensitivity is assumed to be qualitatively material.
Revenue and cost of sales An analysis of the Groups revenue and cost of sales is as follows: Group Group 1 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Investment property rental income 59.0 34.2 Trading property sales 1.2 Property management fees 2.0 Revenue 59.0 37.4 Direct operating expenses relating to investment properties that generated rental income 4.8 3.7 Direct operating expenses relating to investment properties that did not generate rental income 0.2 0.4 Direct operating expenses 5.0 4.1 Cost of sales of trading properties 0.3 1.1 Cost of sales 5.3 5.2 Gross profit 53.7 32.2 1 1 Including interest income of 0.3 million 2016 : 0.1 million, total revenue was 59.3 million 2016 : 37.5 million.
1 Re-presented to classify the German and Dutch portfolio as discontinued operations 70 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Financial statements
