Strategic report Governance Financial statements Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, including foreign exchange forward contracts and options and interest rate swaps and caps.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group isavailable for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classication.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classied as held for sale, except investment properties, are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Investment properties classied as held for sale are carried at fair value.
Trading properties Trading properties are properties held by the Group in the course of development.
The properties are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are treated as acquired when the Group assumes the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
Cost includes development costs on the trading properties during the year.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Leases Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
When accounting for a lease of land and buildings, the Group considers the land and buildings elements separately.
Where only the buildings element of a property lease is classied as a finance lease, the ground rent payments for the land element are shown within operating leases.
The Group does not classify those land elements that are held under operating leases as investment property.
Leases the Group as lessor Rentals receivable under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
In the event that lease incentives are granted to a lessee, such incentives are recognised as an asset.
The aggregate cost of the incentives is recognised as a reduction in rental income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Leases the Group as lessee Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Inthe event that lease incentives are received to enter into an operating lease, such incentives are recognised as a liability.
The aggregate benefit of the incentives is recognised as a reduction in rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Where a property is held under a head lease classied as a finance lease, it is initially recognised as an asset as the sum of the premium paid on acquisition and the present value of minimum ground rent payments.
The corresponding rent liability to the head leaseholder is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheetdate, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash ows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash ows when the eect of the time value of money is material.
When some or all of the economic benets required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Critical accounting j udgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, the Directors are required to make j udgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities.
In making these estimates and assumptions, the Directors make reference to historical experience and other factors that they consider to be relevant.
Actual results may dier from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision aects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision aects both current and future periods.
Critical j udgements in applying the Groups accounting policies The following are the critical j udgements, apart from those involving estimations which are dealt with separately below, the Directors have made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant eect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Accounting for one-o and complex transactions The Group frequently enters into transactions for the purchase and sale of investment property, associates, subsidiaries and other financial assets.
These transactions tend to be one-o and can be complex.
Accounting for the transactions requires j udgements to be made over matters such as calculating any gain or loss, and deciding upon the presentation in the financial statements.
