Strategic report Governance Financial statements Title of standard IFRS 16 Leases Nature of change IFRS 16 will replace IAS 17 Leases, and will require the application of a single lessee accounting model.
It will result in almost all leases being recognised on the balance sheet for a lessee, as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed.
Under the new standard, an asset the right to use the leased item and a financial liability, to pay future rental payments, are recognised.
The only exceptions are short-term and low-value leases.
The accounting for lessors will not significantly change.
Impact At present, as a lessee the Group holds a limited number of operating leases, with the undiscounted non-cancellable future lease payments as 31 December 2017 of 22.7 million note 31.
In order to quantify the impact of IFRS 16, management is required to make judgements on a lease-by-lease basis including, but not limited to: the appropriate discount rate by reference to the interest rate implicit in the lease, or the Groups incremental borrowing rate : the lease term, including consideration of options to extend: and index or rate dependent variable payments that could be included in the calculation of the lease liability.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed lease-by-lease review has been completed.
Date of adoption Mandatory for financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2019.
At this stage, the Group does not intend to byGroup adopt the standard before its effective date.
The Group intends to apply the simplified transition approach and will not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as detailed in the Directors Report on page 48 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of investment properties and certain financial instruments that are measured at fair value at the end of each accounting period.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December.
Control is achieved when the Company: has the power over the investee: is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee: and has the ability to use its power to affects its returns.
In the consolidated balance sheet, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of subsidiaries acquired are initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date the Company gains control until the date when the Company ceases to control the subsidiary.
Adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess of the non-controlling interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interest of the Group except to the extent that the non-controlling interest has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group.
Acquisitionrelated costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree, if any, over the net amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
Non-controlling interests in the acquiree are measured at the non-controlling shareholders proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group Company are expressed in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
65 Notes to the fnancial statements | continued 3.
Signifcant accounting policies continued In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Nonmonetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fairvalue was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange dierences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period in which they arise.
Exchange dierences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period in which they arise except for dierences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated atexchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates uctuate signicantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are usedExchange dierences arising, if any, are classied as equity and transferred to the Groups foreign currency translation reserve.
Suchtranslation dierences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Where a lease incentive is granted, which does not enhance the value of the property, or a rent-free period is granted, the eective cost is amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Property management fees are recognised in the period to which they relate.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the eective interest rate applicable.
Revenue from the sale of trading and investment properties is recognised when the significant risks and returns have been transferred to the buyer.
This generally coincides with the transfer of the legal title or the passing of possession to the buyer.
The profit on disposal of trading and investment properties is determined as the dierence between the consideration received and the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement of the accounting period plus any additions in the period.
Share-based payments The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of options that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial model or the Companys share price less the discounted value of estimated future dividends, as appropriate.
The expected life used in the binomial model has been adj usted based on managements best estimate, for the eects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Operating proft Operating profit is stated after the share of results of associates, profit on sale of subsidiaries and investment properties and fair value gains on investment properties, but before changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments, finance income, finance costs and foreign exchange movements.
Property, plant and equipment This comprises computer equipment and xtures and ttings, which are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write o the cost or valuation of computers, xtures and ttings and oce equipment, less residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Computer equipment three years Fixtures and ttings five years Investment properties Investment properties, which comprises freehold and leasehold properties held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation, are treated asacquired when the Group assumes the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
Acquisitions of investment properties including related transaction costs and subsequent additions of a capital nature are initially recognised in the accounts at cost.
At each reporting date the investment properties are revalued to their fair values based on a professional valuation at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in profit or loss for the period in which they arise.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provisions for impairment.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant inuence, but not control or j oint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the financial andoperating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or j oint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adj usted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest inthat associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
66 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Financial statements Strategic report Governance Financial statements Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities ofthe associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The Groups liability for current and deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit diers from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on dierences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary dierences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary dierences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are oset when there is a legally enforceable right to set o current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classied as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fairvalue.
Financial assets are classied into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, and loans and receivables.
The classication depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classied as at FVTPL where the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial asset is classied as held for trading if: it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future: or it is a part of an identied portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and eective as a hedging instrument.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or signicantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives that can be designated as FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classied as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the eective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the eective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is obj ective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash ows of the investment have been impacted.
Obj ective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial diculty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
67 Notes to the fnancial statements | continued 3.
Signifcant accounting policies continued The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written o against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written o are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of theimpairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related obj ectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date theimpairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subj ect to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash ows from the asset expire: or it transfers the nancialasset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classied as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities are classied as at FVTPL where the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial liability is classied as held for trading if: it has been incurred principally for the purpose of disposal in the near future: or it is a part of an identied portfolio of financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and eective as a hedging instrument.
A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or signicantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives that can be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability.
The convertible bonds are designated as fair value through profit or loss and are presented on the balance sheet at fair value with all gains andlosses, including the write o of issuance costs, recognised in the income statement within net nancing costs.
The interest charge in respect of the coupon rate on the bonds has been recognised within net nancing costs on an accruals basis.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the eective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an eective yield basis.
The eective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and are subsequently measured at the higher of: the amount of the obligation under the contract, as determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets: and the amount initially recognised less, where appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with the revenue recognition policies set out above.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially dierent terms or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modied, such an exchange or modication is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the dierence in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equityinstruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
68 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Financial statements
