Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Valuation of acquired intangible assets We walked through the controls over the We concluded that the methodology valuation of the acquired intangible assets applied to allocate the purchase price is Refer to Audit Committee Report page and understood managements process to appropriate and that the assumptions used 64 : Basis of Preparation page 106 : and comply with IFRS 3 Business Combinations to determine the fair value of intangible Note 4.2 of the Consolidated Financial and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
assets acquired are within an acceptable Statements range and that the intangible assets are With involvement of an EY business In 2017, UBM has finalised the purchase appropriately stated in the 31 December valuation specialist, we: price allocation exercise of the fair values 2017 financial statements and 31 December of the assets and liabilities of Allworld, Assessed the competence, capabilities 2016 restated comparatives.
which was acquired in December 2016 for and objectivity of managements 379.7m.
specialists: and The risk is incorrect identification and Evaluated and concluded on the results measurement of the acquired intangible of managements and its specialists assets since the valuation is based on procedures to determine the fair value valuation techniques, which involve of the intangible assets acquired.
This significant judgment about the future included: results of the business, the discount rates evaluating the completeness and applied to future cash flows and royalty existence of intangible assets rates used.
recognised: assessment of the valuation methodologies applied: assessment of the key assumptions made by management, such as customer churn, royalty rates and discount rates, compared to our independently calculated range: benchmarking the assumptions used with historic UBM acquisitions and other transactions in the sector: and performing sensitivity analysis to understand the extent to which changes in key assumptions may give rise to a materially different valuation for the intangible asset.
In addition, we assessed the prospective financial information utilised in the valuation models based on the viewpoint of a market participant as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
This included evaluating the historical accuracy of forecasting, current performance and adjustment made to pre acquisition due diligence forecast numbers.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 4.2 of the group financial statements with the requirements of IFRS 3.
Audit procedures on the valuation of the acquired intangible assets were performed by the Primary audit team.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95 Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc continued Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Carrying Value of Goodwill We challenged managements assumptions Based on the results of our work, we agree used in its impairment models for with managements conclusion that no Refer to Audit Committee Report page assessing the recoverability of the carrying impairment of goodwill is required in the 64 : Basis of Preparation page 106 : and value of goodwill.
We focused on the current year.
We agree with management Note 4.1 of the Consolidated Financial appropriateness of CGU identification, that no reasonably possible change in Statements methodology applied to estimate assumptions would result in a material At 31 December 2017, goodwill amounted recoverable values, discount rates and impairment in any Cash Generating to 1,533.0m 2016 restated: 1,623.6m.
Specifically: Units and hence no additional sensitivity We focused on this area due to the size disclosures are required in Note 4.1 of the We validated that changes in the CGUs of the goodwill balance and because the Groups financial statements.
identified were consistent with changes in directors assessment of value in use of the business and reflects the lowest level the Groups Cash Generating Units CGUs at which management monitors goodwill involves judgement about the future in accordance with the requirements of results of the business and the discount IAS 36, Impairment of Assets IAS 36 : rates applied to future cash flow forecasts.
We tested the methodology applied There is no change in the risk profile in the in the value in use calculation VIU current year.
as compared to IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, and the mathematical accuracy of managements model: Used our EY valuations specialists to assist our assessment of the appropriateness of the impairment review model, discount rate, long term growth rates including comparison to economic and industry forecasts where appropriate and other key assumptions: Obtained an understanding and performed an assessment of the underlying assumptions for the FY18 budget and implied growth rates beyond FY18: Assessed operating results against historic assumptions to assess the historical accuracy of forecasting: Validated key areas of judgement in managements cash flow forecast and impairment review ensuring that revenue is not included from new product development and future restructuring benefits: Compared budgets to those forecasts used in other assessments such as going concern and understood any sensitivity within the cash flows and the impact of changes on key areas of judgement: For certain CGUs we performed sensitivity analysis by stress testing key assumptions in the model with downside scenarios to understand the parameters that, should they arise, could lead to a different conclusion in respect of the carrying value of goodwill: and We assessed the disclosures in Note 4.1 of the financial statements against the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
The entire goodwill balance was subject to full scope audit procedures by the Primary audit team.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 96 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to the sale of PR Newswire.
In the current year this matter is no longer considered a risk as the matter was one off in nature.
An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 497 legal entity reporting units within the Group consolidation, we selected 16 2016:13 components covering entities within the UK, the Netherlands, Hong Kong, China, India, Bahrain, Singapore, Indonesia and the United States which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 16 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 7 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 9 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 63% 2016: 69% of the Groups Revenue.
The specific scope component contributed 20% 2016: 13% of the Groups Revenue.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant tested for the Group.
For 7 components contributing to 7% of the Groups revenue, the Primary audit team performed specified procedures which included analytical procedures comprising discussion with local management on the performance of key events, variances to expectations for Revenue and certain other income statement and balance sheet accounts, and other enquiries of management.
Of the remaining 443 legal entities, the Primary team performed other procedures, including analytical review procedures, and testing consolidation journal entries, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Revenue Full scope components: 63% Specic scope components: 20% Other procedures: 17% Changes from the prior year Following the acquisition of Allworld in December 2016, in 2017 a full years profit has been consolidated in the Groups income statement.
We have designated 4 Allworld legal entities in 2017 as a specific scope component.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 7 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 3 of these directly by the primary audit team.
Of the 9 specific scope components, audit procedures were performed on 6 of these directly by the primary audit team.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Auditor visits.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit team to the full and specific scope component teams in Hong Kong, China, India and the United States.
These visits involved meeting with our component teams, discussing key risk areas, meeting management and reviewing key working papers and attend closing meetings.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 97
