Glossary of terms Admission: On 1 June 2017, Alfas shares were Company: Alfa Financial Software Holdings IPO: Initial public offering of the Companys Ordinary Shares immediately post-admission admitted for trading on the Main Market of the PLC, a company incorporated in England and London Stock Exchange.
Wales with registered number 10713517 whose on 1 June 2017. registered office is at Moor Place, 1 Fore Street Adjusted EBIT: Adjusted EBIT is defined as KPI: Key performance indicator.
operating profit excluding pre-IPO share based LTIP: The Companys Long Term Incentive Plan.
Constant currency: Management provide Maintenance: Maintenance revenues are percentage increases or decreases in revenue or Adjusted EBIT margin: Adjusted EBIT margin is invoiced annually in advance.
Maintenance Adjusted EBIT to eliminate the effect of changes defined as profit from continuing operations amounts are linked to the volumes of contracts in currency values.
The comparative results are before income taxes, finance income, pre-IPO or agreements being written through derived by re-calculating non British pounds share based compensation and IPO related Alfa Systems and therefore increase if the denominated revenue and or expenses using expenses, as a proportion of revenue.
the average monthly exchange rates of this year Management utilises this measure to monitor Non-executive Directors: The Non-executive and applying it to the comparative periods performance as it illustrates the underlying Directors of the Company designated as such results, excluding gains or losses on derivative performance of the business by excluding items on page 55. financial instruments.
considered by management not to be reflective OEMs: Original Equipment and automotive Corporate website: www.
com of the underlying trading operations of Alfa.
Diluted Adjusted Earnings per share: Defined Adjusted Earnings: Adjusted Earnings is Ongoing development and services ODS : defined as profit for the period from continuing as Adjusted Earnings divided by the weighted ODS revenues represent the ongoing operations attributable to equity holders of the average number of shares issued and development and services efforts which are Company, before IPO-related expenses and outstanding, diluted.
either ad hoc projects with existing customers share based compensation, less the tax effect of Directors: The Directors of the Company or relate to development or services delivered these adjustments.
Adjusted Earnings is used by whose names are set out on pages 54 and 55. after a new implementation.
The services can be the CODM in measuring profitability because it Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The support immediately after an implementation, represents a Group measure of performance Disclosure and Transparency Rules made under further development for customer specific which excludes the impact of certain non-cash Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act functionality or change management assistance.
charges and other charges not associated with 2000 as amended.
the underlying operating performance of the Operating Free Cash Flow Conversion: Equipment finance: Equipment finance business, while including the effect of items that Operating Free Cash Flow represents net cash covers a myriad of asset types, although at management believe affect shareholder value generated from operations less settlement of Alfa we predominantly service the lending and in-year return, such as income tax expense derivative instruments and margin calls, after for agriculture, manufacturing, mining, and net finance costs.
the purchase of property, plant and equipment construction and transportation equipment.
and adding back IPO-related expenses.
Adjusted Earnings per share: Is defined as EPS: Earnings per share.
Operating Free Cash Flow Conversion Adjusted Earnings divided by the weighted represents Operating Free Cash Flow generated average number of shares issued and Exceptional items: Items that, by virtue as a proportion of Adjusted EBIT.
of their nature and incidence, have been uses Operating Free Cash Flow Conversion for disclosed separately in order to draw them AFSGL: Alfa Financial Software Group Limited.
monitoring and managing cash flows.
to the attention of the reader of the AGM: The Annual General Meeting of the financial statements.
Ordinary shares: The ordinary shares with a Company, which will be held on 24 April 2018. nominal value of 0.1 pence each in the share Executive Management Team: Alfa: The Group or Alfa Financial Software capital of the Company.
The Executive Management Team, Holdings PLC and its subsidiary undertakings Prospectus: The Companys prospectus dated Andrew Denton Chief Executive Officer, as defined by the Companies Act 2006.
Vivienne Maclachlan Chief Financial Officer, 26 May 2017 prepared in connection with the Articles: The Articles of Association Lucy Matthews Chief People Officer, Companys Admission.
Michael Mayes Chief Commercial Officer, R&PD: Research and product development.
Automotive finance: Automotive finance Ralph Neuff Chief Information Officer, Retention rate: Represents the retention includes new and used cars.
Our customers Steve Taplin Global Sales and Marketing Director, of Alfa team members over the previous can be banking institutions providing finance and Matthew White Delivery Director.
to dealers, OEMs or independent sellers FRC: The Financial Reporting Council.
FVTPL: Fair value through profit or loss.
SG&A: Sales, general and administrative Banks: Customers classified as banking GHG: Greenhouse gases.
institutions are finance entities associated Group: Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC with regulated banking groups.
Shareholder: A holder for the time being and its subsidiary undertakings as defined by of ordinary shares of the Company.
Basic earnings per share: Calculated by dividing the Companies Act 2006. the profit attributable to equity holders of Alfa Software implementation: An implementation Headcount: Represents the number of Alfa by the weighted average number of ordinary process contains three revenue streams, team members under contracts of employment shares outstanding during the year.
being recognition of the perpetual license, as at 31 December of each year.
implementation fees and development fees.
Billings: These are amounts invoiced in year.
HMRC: Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
Implementations can take from nine months This differs from revenue as defined by IFRS due to five years depending on the complexity.
to the release of deferred income in relation to I&S: Implementation and Support license payments and maintenance agreements I&S expense.
The Code: The UK Corporate Governance Code and accrued.
published by the FRC in September 2014.
IAS: International Accounting Standard s. Board: The Board of Directors of Alfa Financial VAT: UK value added taxation.
IFRS: International Financial Reporting Software Holdings PLC.
Standard s as adopted for use in the CGU: Cash-generating unit.
Companies Act: The Companies Act 2006 IFRS IC: International Financial Reporting as amended.
Independents: Independent customers are customers who are neither part of a regulated banking group nor manufacturers of the asset being financed.
120 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 This report is printed on GenYous.
Manufactured at a mill that is FSCaccredited.
Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSCChain of Custody certified.
Designed and produced by SampsonMay Telephone: 020 7403 4099 www.
com Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Moor Place 1 Fore Street Avenue London EC2Y 9DT UK 44 0 20 7588 1800 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC, 2018
