STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2017 1 Accounting policies and presentation exchange differences are taken into account in determining profit before tax.
The Groups significant accounting policies are summarised below.
Material foreign currency movements arising on the translation of Basis of preparation intra-group balances where there is no intention of repayment are The consolidated financial statements the statements have been treated as part of the net investment in a subsidiary and are recognised prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting through equity.
Movements on other intra-group balances are Standards IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use by the European recognised through the income statement.
These statements have been prepared under the historical The Groups presentational currency is sterling.
On consolidation, cost method except where other measurement bases are required to results and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted be applied under IFRS as set out below.
investments are translated to sterling at average exchange rates except These statements have been prepared using all standards and in the case of material transactions when the actual spot rate is used interpretations required for financial periods beginning 1 January 2017. where it more accurately reflects the underlying substance of the No standards or interpretations have been adopted before the required transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates implementation date.
ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such translational exchange differences are taken to equity.
Standards, revisions and amendments to standards and interpretations Profits and losses on the realisation of foreign currency net The Group adopted all applicable amendments to standards with an investments include the accumulated net exchange differences effective date in 2017 with no material impact on its results, assets and that have arisen on the retranslation of the foreign currency net liabilities.
All other accounting policies have been applied consistently.
investments since 1 January 2004 up to the date of realisation.
Basis of consolidation Presentation of the income statement The statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company IFRS is not fully prescriptive as to the format of the income statement.
and its subsidiaries together the Group and the Groups share of the Line items and subtotals have been presented on the face of the results and equity of its joint ventures and associates together equity income statement in addition to those required under IFRS.
Sales shown in the income statement are those of subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities over which, either directly or indirectly, the Operating profit is profit before taxation, finance costs and the share of Company has control.
The Company controls an entity when it is post-tax earnings of equity accounted investments.
In order to achieve exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with consistency and comparability between reporting periods, operating the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power profit is analysed to show separately the results of trading performance over the entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the and individually significant charges and credits.
Such items arise year are included in the Groups results from the date of acquisition or because of their size or nature and comprise: up to the date of disposal.
All business combinations are accounted for by the purchase method.
Assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities the impact of the annual goodwill impairment review.
These acquired in a business combination are measured at fair value.
impairment charges can be irregular and significant in nature and as a result adjusted to enable the reader to understand the underlying Intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated.
business performance without the impact of these non-cash items.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of shareholders asset impairment and restructuring charges which arise from events earnings and equity attributable to third-party shareholders.
that are significant to any reportable segment.
Asset impairment Equity accounted investments charges can be irregular and significant in nature and therefore Joint ventures are entities in which the Group has a long-term interest adjusted to enable the reader to understand the underlying business and exercises joint control with its partners over their financial and performance without the impact of these non-cash items.
In all cases, voting rights are 50% or lower.
Restructuring charges arising as a result of acquisitions are unrelated Associated undertakings are entities, being neither a subsidiary nor to the performance of the Group and its continuing operations, and a joint venture, where the Group has a significant influence.
Equity adjusted from management results.
accounted investments are accounted for by the equity method.
amortisation of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets The Groups share of equity includes goodwill arising on acquisition.
This charge relates to the historical Foreign currencies acquisitions, rather than the Groups performance in the year, Subsidiaries and equity accounted investments account in the therefore the unwind of intangibles is excluded from management currency of their primary economic environment of operation, trading profit.
determined having regard to the currency which mainly influences changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and sales and input costs.
Transactions are translated at exchange rates material currency translation movements arising on intra-group approximating to the rate ruling on the date of the transaction except funding.
Gains and losses related to these items can be volatile in in the case of material transactions when actual spot rate may be nature and significantly impacted by fair value movements outside used where it more accurately reflects the underlying substance of management control, therefore adjusted in management results.
Where practicable, transactions involving foreign currencies are protected by forward contracts.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
