REVIEW OF BALANCE SHEET ISSUES IN NORTH AMERICA We reported in our 2017 results announcement that, following ongoing pricing pressure, continuing operational challenges and the impact of programme transitions, a detailed review had been carried out at our North American Aerospace sites.
In October 2017, we reported that an initial include inventory write-downs totalling the circumstances under which these issues review of our Alabama site had resulted in 64 million, recognition of provisions for arose.
This highlighted: a 15 million non-cash charge relating to onerous contracts of 18 million, reduction a challenging business environment revised assumptions on programme inventory in receivables balances of 12 million, other with certain sites experiencing reduced and receivables balances.
working capital write-downs of 7 million volumes, programme transitions and cost and fixed asset write-offs of 7 million.
In November 2017, we further announced that, base compressions following sustained in light of the issues communicated earlier in The adjustments relate to a combination of: price downs: relation to Alabama, a comprehensive balance revised assumptions, estimates and high levels of management turnover and sheet review had been immediately initiated judgements regarding recoverability of reduced engineering resource, resulting across other Aerospace plants in North certain working capital balances, particularly in a loss of knowledge and experience America.
In certain cases this includes together with available resource to meet of Group revenue.
taking a more cautious view given the operational demands such as rework: A Steering Group, comprising the Group issues identified and changes in the examples of management processes and Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, business environment: methodologies which were not consistently Head of Corporate Audit and Head of Legal, changes in facts or circumstance during or robustly applied: was appointed to lead the review under the 2017: and supervision of the Audit & Risk Committee.
system limitations driving a reliance the correction of immaterial prior period on people: The review comprised three key elements: errors.
a culture focused on short-term a review of potential balance sheet The review assessed whether there was performance: and exposures and key judgements, particularly evidence to suggest that any of the identified focusing on working capital balances.
This gaps in management oversight.
adjustments relate to prior periods and might review included independent support from therefore be categorised as errors in the The review did not indicate any fraud or KPMG and engineering consultant Belcan: preparation of prior year annual reports.
additional inventory count procedures, This exercise inherently included an element As a consequence of this review, a number including independent testing by both of judgement as many of the related balances, of individuals have ceased employment with KPMG and our Corporate Audit team: and such as inventory provisions, require the Group.
In addition, a detailed improvement estimation.
The review therefore required the a conduct review, with support from both plan has been initiated to address issues reassessment of conditions and contractual Kirkland & Ellis and Slaughter and May.
identified and prevent similar issues occurring positions in prior periods using information in the future.
The improvement plan includes: In addition to the above: which was available, or should reasonably have been available at that point in time, a review of operational and financial controls a detailed risk assessment was completed without using the benefit of hindsight.
over working capital: in respect of all other GKN businesses by In some cases, this review was impacted by group and divisional management: and a thorough review of our three lines of changes in GKN personnel and limitations defence activities and associated processes additional risk-based procedures were in available information.
and controls: completed by our external auditor Deloitte The review concluded that 22 million of the as discussed on page 98. a Group-wide review of culture: and adjustments relate to prior periods and that, The review is now complete and the findings due to their materiality in the context of the a review of the organisational structure approved by the Audit & Risk Committee.
This Groups financial position, performance and and capabilities.
resulted in additional non-cash accounting cash flows, a restatement of the prior year The Audit & Risk Committee will monitor the adjustments in our Aerospace North America financial statements is not required.
implementation of this improvement plan business totalling 108 million, and 4 million The Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the throughout 2018. of associated costs.
No issues were identified Board, has completed a thorough review of elsewhere in the Group.
The adjustments 26 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
