STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2017 1 Accounting policies and presentation exchange differences are taken into account in determining profit before tax.
The Groups significant accounting policies are summarised below.
Material foreign currency movements arising on the translation of Basis of preparation intra-group balances where there is no intention of repayment are The consolidated financial statements the statements have been treated as part of the net investment in a subsidiary and are recognised prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting through equity.
Movements on other intra-group balances are Standards IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use by the European recognised through the income statement.
These statements have been prepared under the historical The Groups presentational currency is sterling.
On consolidation, cost method except where other measurement bases are required to results and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted be applied under IFRS as set out below.
investments are translated to sterling at average exchange rates except These statements have been prepared using all standards and in the case of material transactions when the actual spot rate is used interpretations required for financial periods beginning 1 January 2017. where it more accurately reflects the underlying substance of the No standards or interpretations have been adopted before the required transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates implementation date.
ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such translational exchange differences are taken to equity.
Standards, revisions and amendments to standards and interpretations Profits and losses on the realisation of foreign currency net The Group adopted all applicable amendments to standards with an investments include the accumulated net exchange differences effective date in 2017 with no material impact on its results, assets and that have arisen on the retranslation of the foreign currency net liabilities.
All other accounting policies have been applied consistently.
investments since 1 January 2004 up to the date of realisation.
Basis of consolidation Presentation of the income statement The statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company IFRS is not fully prescriptive as to the format of the income statement.
and its subsidiaries together the Group and the Groups share of the Line items and subtotals have been presented on the face of the results and equity of its joint ventures and associates together equity income statement in addition to those required under IFRS.
Sales shown in the income statement are those of subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities over which, either directly or indirectly, the Operating profit is profit before taxation, finance costs and the share of Company has control.
The Company controls an entity when it is post-tax earnings of equity accounted investments.
In order to achieve exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with consistency and comparability between reporting periods, operating the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power profit is analysed to show separately the results of trading performance over the entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the and individually significant charges and credits.
Such items arise year are included in the Groups results from the date of acquisition or because of their size or nature and comprise: up to the date of disposal.
All business combinations are accounted for by the purchase method.
Assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities the impact of the annual goodwill impairment review.
These acquired in a business combination are measured at fair value.
impairment charges can be irregular and significant in nature and as a result adjusted to enable the reader to understand the underlying Intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated.
business performance without the impact of these non-cash items.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of shareholders asset impairment and restructuring charges which arise from events earnings and equity attributable to third-party shareholders.
that are significant to any reportable segment.
Asset impairment Equity accounted investments charges can be irregular and significant in nature and therefore Joint ventures are entities in which the Group has a long-term interest adjusted to enable the reader to understand the underlying business and exercises joint control with its partners over their financial and performance without the impact of these non-cash items.
In all cases, voting rights are 50% or lower.
Restructuring charges arising as a result of acquisitions are unrelated Associated undertakings are entities, being neither a subsidiary nor to the performance of the Group and its continuing operations, and a joint venture, where the Group has a significant influence.
Equity adjusted from management results.
accounted investments are accounted for by the equity method.
amortisation of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets The Groups share of equity includes goodwill arising on acquisition.
This charge relates to the historical Foreign currencies acquisitions, rather than the Groups performance in the year, Subsidiaries and equity accounted investments account in the therefore the unwind of intangibles is excluded from management currency of their primary economic environment of operation, trading profit.
determined having regard to the currency which mainly influences changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and sales and input costs.
Transactions are translated at exchange rates material currency translation movements arising on intra-group approximating to the rate ruling on the date of the transaction except funding.
Gains and losses related to these items can be volatile in in the case of material transactions when actual spot rate may be nature and significantly impacted by fair value movements outside used where it more accurately reflects the underlying substance of management control, therefore adjusted in management results.
Where practicable, transactions involving foreign currencies are protected by forward contracts.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
com 113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued Net financing costs are analysed to show separately interest payable, interest receivable and other net financing charges.
Other net Presentation of the income statement continued financing charges include the interest charge on net defined benefit gains or losses on changes in Group structure which do not meet plans, specific changes in fair value on net investment hedges and the definition of discontinued operations or which the Group views unwind of discounts on fair value amounts established on as capital rather than revenue in nature.
These arise as a result of business combinations.
acquisitions and divestments and, given this, are unrelated to the Alternative performance measures trading performance of the Group, thus included as an adjusting item.
Management use non-GAAP measures, commonly referred to as profits or losses arising from business combinations including fair alternative performance measures APMs, in the preparation and value adjustments to pre-combination shareholdings, changes in presentation of the financial information which are not defined or estimates of contingent consideration made after the provisional specified under the requirements of IFRS.
fair value period and material expenses and charges incurred on The Group uses management measures to provide additional useful a business combination.
Changes such as these are related to prior information to assess the operating performance on a comparable acquisitions and the Group adjusts for these when they first occur, basis and these are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, therefore for consistency, any revisions to these balances would also IFRS measures.
be adjusted in management results.
Management measures are consistent with how information is significant pension scheme curtailments and settlements.
These are reported to the Board and enables management to chart progress, excluded given they are significant in size and irregular in nature, and make decisions and allocate resources based on the same underlying often driven by factors outside the control of management, including performance of the Group, without volatility arising from significant the triennial review.
non-trading items such as impairment charges, portfolio change The Groups post-tax share of equity accounted investment earnings is transactions or change in value of derivatives and other financial shown as a separate component of profit before tax.
These measures are also used in the setting of certain of material restructuring and impairment charges, amortisation of remuneration targets.
non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations and Management measures used comprise: other net financing charges and their related taxation are separately identified in note 4.
Management measure: management results 2017 2016 m m Management sales are sales of subsidiaries with the Groups share of the Sales of subsidiaries 9,671 8,822 sales of equity accounted investments EAI.
Sales of EAI 738 592 Management sales 10,409 9,414 m m Management trading profit is trading profit defined as operating profit Trading profit of subsidiaries 568 684 excluding the impact of non-trading items, see note 3 of subsidiaries Trading profit of EAI 94 89 with the Groups share of the trading of EAI.
773 Management trading profit 662 m m Management profit before tax is management trading profit less net Management trading profit 662 773 subsidiary interest payable and receivable and the Groups share of net Net subsidiary interest 76 79 interest payable and receivable and taxation of EAI.
Group share of EAI interest 2 1 Group share of EAI tax 16 15 Management profit before tax 572 678 m m Management sales 10,409 9,414 Management trading margin is management trading profit expressed as a percentage of management sales.
Management trading profit 662 773 Management trading margin 6.4% 8.2% 114 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2017 2016 m m Management profit after tax 456 530 Management earnings per share is management profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent divided by the weighted average Weighted average number of shares 1,714.7 1,712.1 number of ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
Management earnings per share 26.6p 31.0p These are key internal management metrics used to assess the Group as a whole including its equity accounted investments enabling full view of the overall performance.
Management measure: organic sales growth m m Management sales measured both in absolute terms and on an Group management sales 7,689 9,414 underlying basis excluding the effects of currency translation, Currency impact 456 862 acquisitions and divestments relative to the prior year.
Organic sales Divestments 114 growth is organic change as a percentage of management sales, currency impact and divestments.
9,756 8,551 Acquisitions 27 654 Organic change 626 209 Group management sales 10,409 9,414 Organic sales growth 6.4% 2.4% This enables readers to understand the underlying sales growth rate on a comparable basis without the effect of those items mentioned which could impact the rate of growth.
Management measure: organic trading profit growth m m Management trading profit measured both in absolute terms and on an Group management trading profit 773 679 underlying basis excluding the effects of currency translation, acquisitions Currency impact 43 89 and divestments relative to the prior year.
Organic trading profit growth Divestments 12 is organic change as a percentage of prior year management trading profit, currency impact and divestments.
In 2017, this excludes the impact of the 804 768 North American Aerospace Balance Sheet Review.
Acquisitions 3 62 North American Aerospace Balance Sheet Review 112 Organic change 33 57 Group management trading profit 662 773 Organic trading profit decline 4.1 % 7.4 % This enables readers to understand the underlying trading profit growth rate on a comparable basis without the effect of those items mentioned which could impact the rate of growth.
Management measure: operating cash flow m m Cash generated from operations adjusted for capital expenditure Cash generated from operations 600 778 tangible and intangible, government capital grants, proceeds from Capital expenditure 521 500 disposal of fixed assets and government refundable advances.
Government capital grants 2 6 Proceeds from fixed asset disposals 8 37 Government refundable advances 8 6 Operating cash flow 81 315 This measure shows the cash generated by the Group following the inclusion of capital items.
com 115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued Alternative performance measures continued Management measure: free cash flow 2017 2016 m m Operating cash flow including interest, tax, equity accounted investment Operating cash flow 81 315 dividends, special pension payments and amounts paid to non-controlling Dividends from EAI 60 57 interests, but excluding dividends paid to GKN shareholders.
Interest 71 76 Tax 113 93 Special pension repayment 250 Dividends paid to NCI 2 Free cash flow 207 201 This measure shows the cash generated and retained by the Group in the year available for distribution to shareholders.
Management measure: management operating cash flow m m Operating cash flow adjusted for pension deficit funding and cash Operating cash flow 81 315 flows associated with restructuring charges excluded from Pension deficit funding 292 57 management trading profit.
Acquisition-related restructuring 13 16 Portfolio change restructuring 11 Management operating cash flow 397 388 This measure allows clarity of operating cash flow excluding the impact of large one-off items in the year.
Management measure: return on average invested capital ROIC m m Management trading profit as a percentage of average total net assets, Management trading profit 662 773 which is defined as the net assets of the Group excluding post-employment Average invested capital 5,076 4,823 obligations, tax, borrowings and derivatives throughout the year.
ROIC 13.0% 16.0% This allows ROIC to be calculated on the operating assets of the business within the control of management.
Management measure: impact of the North American Balance Sheet Review Given the significance of the 112 million charge booked as a result of the North American Balance Sheet Review, certain management measures have been included to avoid possible distortion of prior year comparisons.
The additional 2017 measures are noted below.
2017 m Management trading profit as adjusted for 112 million 774 Management profit before tax as adjusted for 112 million 684 Management earnings per share as adjusted for the after tax effect of the 112 million 31.7p Aerospace organic trading profit decline as adjusted for 108 million 20.5 % 116 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Revenue recognition Design and build Sales This revenue stream affects a discrete number of businesses, primarily Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the in the Aerospace segment but also on a smaller scale in the Automotive consideration receivable which generally equates to the invoiced segment.
Generally, revenue is only recognised on the sale of product amount, excluding sales taxes and net of allowances for returns, as detailed above, however, on occasions cash is received in advance early settlement discounts and rebates.
The Group has three of work performed to compensate the Group for costs incurred in principal revenue streams: design and development activities.
Where such amounts are received and the risk and rewards of ownership over the development assets are Sales of product not deemed to have been transferred, amounts are deferred on the This revenue stream accounts for the overwhelming majority of Group balance sheet in customer advances and deferred income and taken sales.
Contracts in the Automotive segment operate almost exclusively to revenue as the Group performs its contractual obligations either on on this basis, and it also covers a high proportion of the Aerospace delivery of product or milestones.
Due to the nature of the design and build contracts, there can be Invoices for goods are raised and revenue is recognised, when the significant learning curves while the Group optimises its production risks and rewards of ownership have passed which, dependent upon processes.
During this early phase of these contracts, all costs including contractual terms, may be at the point of despatch, acceptance by the any start-up losses are taken directly to the income statement.
customer or, in Aerospace, certification by the customer.
Sales and other income is recognised in the income statement when Many businesses in Automotive recognise an element of revenue it can be reliably measured and its collectability is reasonably assured.
via a surcharge or similar raw material cost-recovery mechanism.
The surcharge invoiced or credited is generally based on prior period Property, plant and equipment movement in raw material price indices applied to current period Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated deliveries.
Other cost recoveries are recorded according to the depreciation and impairment charges.
In those instances where recovery of such Cost increases is guaranteed, irrespective of the level of future deliveries, Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in revenue is recognised, or due allowance made, in the same period bringing the asset into use and borrowing costs on qualifying assets, as the cost movement takes place.
defined as an asset or programme where the period of capitalisation Risk and revenue sharing partnerships RRSPs is more than 12 months and the capital value is more than 25 million.
This revenue stream affects a small number of businesses, exclusively Where freehold and long leasehold properties were carried at valuation in the Aerospace segment.
Revenue is recognised under RRSPs for on 23 March 2000, these values have been retained as book values both the sale of product as detailed above and sales of services, which and therefore deemed cost at the date of the IFRS transition.
are recognised by reference to the stage of completion based on Where assets are in the course of construction at the balance sheet services performed to date.
The assessment of the stage of completion date, they are classified as capital work in progress.
Transfers are made is dependent on the nature of the contract, but will generally be based to other asset categories when they are available for use.
on: costs incurred to the extent these relate to services performed up to the reporting date: achievement of contractual milestones Depreciation where appropriate: or flying hours or equivalent for long-term Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or capital work in aftermarket arrangements.
In the case of all other categories of property, plant and equipment, depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the In most RRSP contracts, there are two separate phases where the course of the financial year from the date the asset is available for use.
Group earns revenue: sale of products principally to engine manufacturers: and aftermarket support.
Due to the nature of the Depreciation is applied to specific classes of asset so as to reduce them industry, the sale of products to engine manufacturers can be deeply to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, which are discounted with more favourable pricing in the aftermarket phase.
The Group accounts for the sale of product in early phases of contracts The range of depreciation lives are: distinct from the sale of product service in the aftermarket phase.
Years This generally has the effect of lower margins recognised during Freehold buildings Up to 50 the early phase of contracts with higher margins earned during the aftermarket phase.
The Group does not believe that margin should be Steel powder production plant 18 spread evenly over the two distinct phases of RRSP contracts or that General plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings 6 to 15 accounting losses should be deferred, because it does not consider Computers 3 to 5 there is sufficient contractual certainty over the future revenue, Commercial vehicles and cars 4 to 5 should programme volumes not materialise.
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed at least annually for indications of impairment.
Where an impairment charge arises in the ordinary course of business it is recorded in trading profit.
If an impairment charge arises as a part of a wider review of a cash generating unit it is presented separately within operating profit.
com 117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued Goodwill Goodwill consists of the excess of the fair value of the consideration Financial assets and liabilities over the fair value of the identifiable intangible and tangible assets net Financial liabilities are recorded for arrangements where payments, or of the fair value of the liabilities including contingencies of businesses similar transfers of financial resources, are unavoidable or guaranteed.
acquired at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition-related expenses are Interest payable on these balances is recognised using the effective charged to the income statement as incurred.
Goodwill in respect of business combinations of subsidiaries is Borrowings are measured initially at fair value which usually equates recognised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition to proceeds received and includes transaction costs.
Borrowings are of an equity accounted investment is included in the carrying value of subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand Goodwill is not amortised but tested at least annually for impairment.
deposits, and overdrafts together with highly liquid investments Goodwill is carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses that of less than 90 days maturity.
Other financial assets comprise arise from the annual assessment of its carrying value.
To the extent investments with more than 90 days until maturity.
Unless an that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount, determined enforceable right of set-off exists and there is an intention to net as the higher of estimated discounted future net cash flows or settle, the components of cash and cash equivalents are reflected recoverable amount on a fair value less cost of disposal basis, goodwill on a gross basis in the balance sheet.
is written down to the recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognised in the income statement.
Other financial assets and liabilities, including short-term receivables and payables, are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently Other intangible assets measured at amortised cost less any impairment provision unless the Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation impact of the time value of money is not considered to be material.
Derivative financial instruments Development costs The Group does not trade in derivative financial instruments.
Derivative Where development expenditure results in a new or substantially financial instruments including forward foreign currency contracts and improved product or process and it is probable that this expenditure will cross currency interest rate swaps are used by the Group to manage be recovered, it is capitalised.
Cost comprises development expenditure its exposure to risk associated with the variability in cash flows in and borrowing costs on qualifying assets or fair value on initial relation to both recognised assets or liabilities or forecast transactions.
recognition when as a result of a business combination.
All derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value at the Participation fees balance sheet date.
Payments made to engine manufacturers and original equipment Where derivative financial instruments are not designated as or not manufacturers for participation fees relating to risk and revenue determined to be effective hedges, any gain or loss on remeasurement sharing partnerships and long-term agreements, are carried forward is taken to the income statement.
Where derivative financial in intangible assets to the extent that they can be recovered from instruments are designated as and are effective as cash flow hedges, future sales.
any gain or loss on remeasurement is held in equity and recycled Amortisation on the above is charged from the date the asset is through the income statement when the designated item is transacted, available for use.
In Aerospace, amortisation is charged over the assets unless related to the purchase of a business, when recycled against life up to a maximum of 15 years for all programmes other than risk and consideration.
Where derivative financial instruments are designated revenue sharing partnerships where a maximum life of 25 years is as and are effective as net investment hedges, any gain or loss on assumed, either on a straight-line basis or, where sufficient contractual remeasurement is held in equity and only recycled when the terms exist providing clarity over volumes that do not reflect a linear underlying investment is sold or disposed.
progression, a unit of production method is applied.
In Automotive, If there is a small amount of ineffectiveness but the overall amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the assets life effectiveness is still in the range 80% to 125%, this ineffectiveness is up to a maximum of seven years.
taken to the income statement.
Gains or losses on derivative financial Capitalised development costs, including participation fees, are subject instruments no longer designated as effective hedges are also taken to annual impairment reviews with any resulting impairments charged directly to the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are recognised Research expenditure and development expenditure not qualifying for at their fair value when the nature, characteristics and risks of the capitalisation is written off as incurred.
derivative are not closely related to the host contract.
Gains and losses arising on the remeasurement of these embedded derivatives at each Computer software balance sheet date are taken to the income statement.
Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment its costs are capitalised and categorised as intangible assets.
Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in bringing the asset into use.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life which is in the range of three to five years.
118 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Assets acquired on business combinations non-operating The Group also operates a number of defined contribution and defined intangible assets benefit arrangements which provide certain employees with defined Non-operating intangible assets are intangible assets that are acquired post-employment healthcare benefits.
as a result of a business combination, which arise from contractual or The Group accounts for all post-employment defined benefit schemes other legal rights and are not transferable or separable.
On initial through recognition of the schemes surpluses or deficits on the recognition they are measured at fair value.
Amortisation is charged on balance sheet at the end of each year.
Remeasurement of defined a straight-line basis to the income statement over their expected useful benefit plans is included in other comprehensive income.
Current and lives which are: past service costs, curtailments and settlements are recognised within Years operating profit.
Interest charges on net defined benefit plans are Marketing-related assets recognised in other net financing charges.
brands and trademarks 20 to 50 For defined contribution arrangements, the cost charged to the income agreements not to compete Life of agreement statement represents the Groups contributions to the relevant Customer-related assets schemes in the year in which they fall due.
order backlog Length of backlog Government refundable advances other customer contracts and relationships 2 to 25 Government refundable advances are reported in Trade and other Technology-based assets 5 to 25 payables in the balance sheet.
Refundable advances include amounts advanced by government, accrued interest and directly attributable Inventories costs.
Refundable advances are provided to the Group to part-finance Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable expenditures on specific development programmes.
The advances are value with due allowance being made for obsolete or slow-moving provided on a risk sharing basis, i. e. repayment levels are determined items.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out or weighted average cost subject to the success of the related programme.
Balances are held at basis.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and amortised cost and interest is calculated using the effective interest the relevant proportion of works overheads assuming normal levels of rate method.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated Share-based payments selling costs and costs to complete.
Share options granted to employees and share-based arrangements Taxation put in place since 7 November 2002 are valued at the date of grant or Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement award using an appropriate option pricing model and are charged to unless they relate to items recognised directly in other comprehensive operating profit over the performance or vesting period of the scheme.
income when the related tax is also recognised in other comprehensive The annual charge is modified to take account of shares forfeited by income.
employees who leave during the performance or vesting period and, in the case of non-market related performance conditions, where Full provision is made for deferred tax on all temporary differences it becomes unlikely the option will vest.
resulting from the difference between the carrying value of an asset or liability in the consolidated financial statements and its tax base.
Provisions The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected manner of realisation Provisions for onerous or loss-making contracts, warranty exposures, or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities using environmental matters, restructuring, employee obligations and legal tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
claims are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the only recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be amount can be reliably estimated.
Restructuring provisions comprise recovered against future taxable profits.
lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted profits of joint ventures.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted profits of overseas Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures branches and subsidiaries except to the extent that it is probable that expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax discount such earnings will be remitted to the parent in the foreseeable future.
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of Pensions and post-employment benefits money and the risks specific to the obligation.
Any increase in The Groups pension arrangements comprise various defined benefit provisions due to discounting, only recorded where material, is and defined contribution schemes throughout the world.
In the UK and recognised as interest expense within other net financing charges.
in certain overseas companies, pension arrangements are made through externally funded defined benefit schemes, the contributions to which are based on the advice of independent actuaries or in accordance with the rules of the schemes.
In other overseas companies, funds are retained within the business to provide for retirement obligations.
com 119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 continued 1 Accounting policies and presentation continued obligation for delivery of product and the recovery period of incremental pricing does not match the life of the programme, Standards, revisions and amendments to standards and material rights have been assessed.
interpretations issued but not yet adopted Over time recognition of revenue The Group does not intend to adopt any standard, revision or amendment Under IFRS 15, it should be assessed whether revenue is recognised before the required implementation date.
At the date of authorisation of at a point in time or over time depending on the contract terms.
The these financial statements, the following standards which have not been vast majority of the Groups revenue will continue to be recognised applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: at the point in time when control has passed, however on specific IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective from contracts within Aerospace there is a legal right to compensation for 1 January 2018. work completed where there is no alternative use for the customers asset.
In these instances revenue would be recognised over time.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective from 1 January 2018.
Material rights to price downs IFRS 16 Leases effective from 1 January 2019.
Contractual price downs have been identified in a number of These standards and other revisions to standards and interpretations contracts and under the new standard the value of any material which have an implementation date in 2018 or thereafter are right for the customer needs to be recognised over the life of the being assessed.
contract on all relevant products sold.
IFRS 15 takes a view that where products sold are substantially the same, a relatively IFRS 15 consistent allocation of revenue will apply.
Where such price-downs The Group will adopt IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers are relevant, they will have the impact of deferring some early IFRS 15 for the year ending 31 December 2018 which changes the invoiced revenue to later units sold.
For the majority of such way that revenue is recognised and expands disclosure for revenue arrangements in the Group, price downs are not considered material.
The current intention is to adopt this standard using the modified retrospective approach.
Participation fees Under IFRS 15 the amortisation of participation fees will need to be Following disclosures in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, recorded as a reduction of revenue over the life of the contract to significant progress has been made during the year on the Group project which it relates.
This is a change to current accounting as previously which has included: developing policies: engaging external advisers: these have been amortised through cost of sales.
benchmarking initial findings against market announcements: and running focus groups for the Aerospace and Automotive businesses Risk and Revenue Sharing Partnership RRSP contracts to inform transition considerations with significant involvement While RRSP contracts only affect a small number of businesses from commercial teams.
The largest effort has been on reviewing in the Group, exclusively in the Aerospace division, the implication a significant number of contracts and evaluating the implications of the new accounting standard is likely to be most significant on of transition to IFRS 15.
The contracts subject to review have been these revenues.
targeted based on: output from the impact assessment work to cover Due to the nature of RRSP contracts, original equipment OE products specific risk factors: complexity of business models in each division: and sold to engine manufacturers are deeply discounted with more ensuring that major customers and geographies have been included.
favourable pricing in the aftermarket phase.
Where the Group has Nothing significant has come from the incremental work that changes a contractual right to aftermarket revenue, IFRS 15 requires that the the initial views previously communicated and the majority of more revenue for the contract be allocated to the performance conditions complex areas under the new standard continue to be within the based on their stand-alone selling price and be recognised as control Aerospace business.
While the timing of revenue recognition will change, is transferred for the performance obligations.
This will result in there will be no impact on either timing or quantum of cash flows.
increased margins recognised during the OE phase of contracts through recognition of contract assets i. e. unbilled receivables on The Groups Executive Committee and Audit Committee have been the balance sheet.
However, revenue allocated to the performance appraised on the implications of IFRS 15 and the wider organisation obligations will only be recognised to the point it is probable that has been provided with appropriate training to ensure changes are there will not be a significant reversal of revenue in the future.
embedded in normal business activity.
Timing of recognition Based on the work completed to date, it is expected that the key Under IFRS 15, revenue should be recognised when control passes financial impacts will be the following.
All of these are expected to be rather than the point of transfer for risks and rewards of ownership.
within Aerospace, with participation fees also impacting Driveline.
This change will not affect the majority of the Groups sales: Non-recurring prices however, due to specific arrangements under risk and revenue In certain contracts the non-recurring price, which explicitly sharing partnerships it will likely impact certain of those contracts.
compensates the Group for specific aspects of a work package This change will move the recognition point earlier to despatch from e. g. engineering design and development or capital expenditure, GKN or acceptance at the customer rather than sale of the engine is recovered over a specific number of products.
period is often established using expected volumes or milestones at the time of negotiating a framework agreement.
However, similar to the price-down scenario noted below, IFRS 15 considers there to be a material right for the customer where they are able to buy future units at a reduced price.
Where there is a single performance 120 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION IFRS 9 Key estimates The Group will adopt IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 for the Assumptions made in the value in use calculations in the AWD year ending 31 December 2018 which introduces changes to the eDrive model comprising the pre-tax discount rates, cash flow classification and measurement of financial assets and financial projections and the long-term growth rates.
Estimation was also liabilities, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
used in relation to cash flow forecasts in certain Aerospace Conclusions from the impact assessment show that there will not businesses specifically the reduction of the number of years be a material financial change following the adoption of IFRS 9. used prior to the perpetuity calculation note 11.
The Group has net investment hedges in place as at 31 December 2017 Actuarial assumptions in relation to the defined benefit plans, in which are not impacted by the adoption of IFRS 9, and the classification particular the discount rates, inflation rates and life expectancies and measurement changes have an immaterial impact on the financial note 24. assets and liabilities held.
From an impairment perspective, the Group The Group has considered that in the majority of cases the range of continues to trade with large original equipment manufacturers OEMs possible outcomes within provisions and the potential change from around the world with stable credit ratings and a strong payment using alternative sources within derivatives and other financial history, and as a result does not expect a material change when instruments to be narrow, therefore no longer consider these as applying the expected credit loss model under IFRS 9. significant judgements and key estimates.
IFRS 16 The Group will adopt IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 for the year ending 31 December 2019 which removes the classification of leases as either operating or finance, and replaces it with one model for all leasing arrangements.
Lessees will be required to recognise lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and show depreciation of assets and interest on liabilities separately within the income statement.
IFRS 16 will require the Group to recognise the current operating lease portfolio on the balance sheet where relevant.
The financial implications of this are currently being assessed and a further update will be provided when conclusions have been reached.
Significant judgements and key estimates The Groups significant accounting policies are set out above.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRS, requires the use of estimates, subjective judgement and assumptions that may affect the amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and reported profit and earnings for the year.
The Directors base these estimates, judgements and assumptions on a combination of past experience, professional expert advice and other evidence that is relevant to the particular circumstance.
The judgements and estimates that have the most significant effect on the amounts included in the financial statements are described below.
Significant judgements Following the North American Balance Sheet Review, a judgement has been taken regarding the presentation and disclosure of the charges identified.
No adjustment will be made to the 2016 financial statements.
The total value of the adjustment related to prior periods is 22 million, which is not considered to be material and this has been discussed in more detail on page 26.
The decision taken on which management measures will be included within the annual report and financial statements and the adjustments made to derive those management measures note 1. gkn.
