STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF GKN PLC 1 Significant accounting policies and basis of preparation 2 Income statement The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company required by the Companies Act 2006.
GKN plc is a public company has elected not to present its own Income Statement for the year.
limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in the UK, and registered Profit after taxation for the year was 871 million 2016: 6 million in England and Wales with the registration number 04191106. including dividend income received of 877 million 2016: nil.
Its registered office is PO Box 55, Ipsley House, Ipsley Church Lane, Redditch, Worcestershire, B98 0TL.
They have been prepared on a Auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was going concern basis under the historical cost convention except where 0.4 million 2016: 0.4 million.
other measurement bases are required to be applied and in accordance with IFRS under Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure 3 Fixed asset investments Framework FRS 101.
In accordance with FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the following exemptions: Cost and net book amount m At 1 January 2017 3,607 IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows.
Additions share-based payments 4 IFRS 7, Financial Instruments Disclosures.
At 31 December 2017 3,611 Requirements of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more A full list of investments in subsidiaries and other undertakings is members of the group.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have been applied consistently in both years presented.
4 Share capital Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision Share capital disclosure is shown in note 22 of the consolidated for impairment.
Treasury shares GKN shares which have been purchased and not cancelled are held as treasury shares and deducted from shareholders equity.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The Company has no employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments that are made available to employees of the Companys subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity over the vesting period of the award, with a corresponding increase in the Companys investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Income Statement Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Current tax is recognised in the income statement unless items relate to equity.
Dividends The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the Annual General Meeting while interim dividends are charged in the period they are paid.
